ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u1	The issue now is the General Financial Reviews and the handling of Chamberpiece 35570-IX. Today, we have come to the answers of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Also very much thanks to your members for the first time, in which the various financial and economic themes were flown wide and deep and also almost everything that was going on: corona, the support packages, the macro-economy, the Stability and Growth Pact, expenditure, revenue, funds, Tax Plan and a lot more. I will, of course, go into this in detail with the Secretary of State. Also came along Augustine, the biblical Job and Seneca. I would like to thank Mrs De Vries very much for her comments on De Vlaming, because I did not know he was from Vlieland. Mr Nijboer had a very nice story about the Tinbergen window. Someone whom I also greatly admire and who, by the way, always set up an alarm clock at every meeting he himself put in order to keep track of how much money the meeting had cost for those present. Faster referred to Clausewitz, I think the second law; I did not search it. A bit more can be said about the Maginot line. But before I get turned upside down, I will try not to do that in this debate. It is a huge richness, and with your permission, Mr President, I would like to make a few general comments and I will also say a few words about how we think we are going to fly into the debate from the cabinet. What is crystal clear and what a number of Members have clearly reminded us of is that we are standing here under a total, but completely different starkness than we were a year ago. The Netherlands has come into a crisis, a financial and economic crisis, which since the Second World War has in any case been unprecedented in depth. The corona crisis leaves traces throughout society and also broad in the economy. Also since Princess Day, the cabinet has had to take measures to control the virus. There was an extensive debate on this with your Chamber last night. I believe that we all recognise that the stories of victims and relatives are extremely poignant and that, in addition to health, many other areas of society are still seeing the great consequences of corona. Physical contact with family, friends, colleagues or classmates is no longer what it was, apart from the great damage that we are suffering economically. Countless Dutch people with an essential profession make a considerable effort to keep society running. However much they do and however much we all try to change the beacons, it is a time of adjustment. It's a time that's hard for all of us. That is the context in which we have this debate. The Millions Note is of course a major part aimed at tackling the effects of the Corona epidemic. As a cabinet, we have chosen very consciously to support the economy on a massive scale. I have said before: to lay the economy on the heart-lung machine, as it were, precisely to ensure that we keep as many jobs as possible, that we can take as many businesses as possible from one bank to another and that we offer perspective to the population. For surely the financial spokesmen also recognize the enormous importance of trust and the maintenance of as much confidence as possible in the economy. Mr. Chairman. It is a huge privilege to debate again with you and with your Members of Parliament. We intend to do so as follows. First of all, the economy. Then two: public finances. Three: the aid measures. I should also like to say a few words about the solvency fund. Four: the regular expenses. I'll take the Growth Fund into account. Five: the main points of revenue and purchasing power. And six: some more varia. There is also a small part international in this. Next, Secretary of State Vijlbrief will address the specific fiscal measures, including the BIK and the municipal finances. Secretary of State Van Huffelen will, of course, be responsible for the surcharges. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first block: the economy. It is important to highlight once again how great the uncertainty is. I have done so at Prince's Day, but I have done so before in the debates with your Chamber. The assessment that we have for next year, and which can be found in the Prinsdag pieces, is an assessment that is surrounded by great uncertainty. See also what has been announced this week alone. This has an immediate effect in the medical field, but also, of course, in the economy. I'm just gonna start from the scenario that the planning agency describes. If you take that scenario, you can see that we not only have a huge budget gap this year and next year, but that the economy is also shrinking significantly this year. If everything is more or less in that middle scenario, next year we'll be on a growth rate of one percent or three. But also in that scenario, which often came back in the debate... the government debt is above 60% and it will continue to grow in the following years. In this context, Mr Van Dijck asked how unemployment and bankruptcies could increase in the estimates despite all the support. I see that Mr Van Dijck has also undergone a transformation, because I see Mr Mulder sitting in the benches. That is because, despite everything the cabinet does, the blow will certainly be very hard for the economy and for companies. Paradoxically, the number of bankruptcies in recent months was less than in decades. This is because a lot of companies which had supposedly gone bankrupt under normal circumstances have just managed to survive thanks to that aid. But part of it is a delay in the misery that is yet to come. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mr Sneller asked whether it would be helpful if the planning agency acknowledged that investment was one of the things that the cabinet really does massively in matters such as education and research leads to economic growth and prosperity gains. I would also like to say: yes, if you make that investment intelligently. There are also sufficient international examples of additional investment in education that have not led to economic growth. As far as his question is concerned, I cannot speak for the planning agency, but I think they agree with his conclusion. So I can't force them to record this either. What I could do is to make them part of this debate. That's the formula we've used before. My impression is that the director of the planning agency recognizes the great dilemma that lies behind this and that Mr Sneller is sketching. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Otterloo suggested that we increase public debt further and thereby reduce private debt. For the record, as far as increasing public debt is concerned, he has been served at his fingertips in the last nine months; that is what we have done. I also recognise what he is saying, namely that the Netherlands always had the best public finances in order, but that we are in the worst position in terms of private debt, together with Denmark. But there is more to be said about that, because of course there is often a lot of capacity to do so. There are houses and pension funds on the other side. Moreover, it is not the case that the two are one-on-one communicating vessels. So I don't immediately see a huge cash drawer in front of me that we're reducing private debt by increasing public debt even further. But I do recognise his observation that we have an atypical profile which is the opposite of, for example, a number of countries in southern Europe, where private debt is very limited and public debt is very high. Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan asked about income inequality and the distribution of wealth. For the sake of order, it is important to point out once again that, in my opinion, everyone, without exception, considers it important that income inequality is within certain ranges. The Netherlands is one of the countries in which income inequality is really very limited. If you focus on the countries that are relatively rich, you can see that the Netherlands scores really well. See also the note in the Millions note. Moreover, we have also taken an additional step in the process of negotiating August, not so much on the issue of property inequality, on the distribution of income. That is also because there is a more direct relationship between one's income and his or her purchasing power. I would like to add that a number of speakers have also recalled that the classical purchasing power debate, which is always very prominent during this debate and at this time of the year, is being put back into a very different light in this situation. Because, yes, those purchasing power figures actually look quite reasonable when you look at how the different groups can still find small pluses for themselves in the overview. But the big problem is, of course, dynamic purchasing power. It really matters if you're one of those people in those stats who managed to keep his job or lose your job. That's where the real difference is. Mr Sneller asked about the state of play regarding the implementation of the motion for a resolution on the SME reform. The investigation, carried out in the context of that motion, is in the final stage. The cabinet expects us to come forward with a response in November. Mr Bruins and Mr Wassenberg asked about the integration of broad prosperity into policy. That is the theme that Mr Van Raan regularly raises on the third Wednesday in May but also in the Financial Reviews. I would hope, and I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Snels, that this Millions note, which was, of course, in the context of the corona crisis, will be a further step in the ever-widening debate on broad prosperity. At the request of the Chamber, the planning offices will also present before the end of the year a plan for integrating broad prosperity into the budgetary and accountability systems. So I'd hope that makes another move that way. The one about block one, the economy. Then I have arrived at block two, public finances and fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr Van Raan has a very short question. Welcome back, by the way, I haven't seen you in a week!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to be back here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u6	Haha, you're free to leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a brief question about the economy. Perhaps we will come to the aid measures, but I would still like to hear from the Minister about the following. On the one hand, he says: the economy is widely supported. On the other hand, however, there is no mention of the fact that this aid does not have a green component. There is a much larger crisis behind this, namely the climate and biodiversity crisis. So why not look at all the aid measures in that light?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u8	It is true, of course, that the cabinet did not do the latter, everything in a green way. Honestly, I wouldn't think that was wise either. Why? Because now we are really dealing with a situation where the shirt is closer than the skirt and it is simply the question whether people will still have their jobs tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, or perhaps no longer because the government doesn't give a helping hand. In that regard, I think it would be wise, quite frankly, for us to have really chosen that primary objective. What I would hope Mr Van Raan would recognize is that he will say that it is too thin, but I would hope that he would recognize the movement. There has been a discussion about greening loans towards KLM, and green criteria are very strongly part of the discussion on the Growth Fund. I'll be back to talk about that in a minute. Much wider as a cabinet in the past few years, we have really made a big move in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u9	Instead of always hearing what Mr Van Raan thinks is too skinny, could you turn the question around: does the cabinet think it is enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u10	When I look at the agreements that this cabinet, building on the Paris Agreement, has managed to make, and also at the steps that have been taken in response to the Urgenda judgment, I believe that these are really years in which a transition is being made in terms of how we look at sustainability. Moreover, if you see what that's going to mean over the next ten years, I think this will be the decade of transition. I am therefore, frankly, optimistic about this. I think the question has changed in that sense. That's good news, I think. The question is no longer: are we willing to do the right things? I think we're doing it. I think the question has actually become: do we do these things fast enough? My impression is that this cabinet has really started a huge acceleration. But I do recognize that some people find that on the fast side and others think that it should be at least twice as fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Van Otterloo and then Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you for responding to the relationship between private debt and government taxes. There is, of course, no doubt that nobody wanted this government deficit that we have now, and that it is not an objective to pursue either. But we also need to think about what's next. Then we will have to have benchmarks for what the relationship between public debt and private debt should be. My story was also a reaction to the stories about getting back to 60% and where to find it. I would nevertheless like to invite the Minister of Finance and the Government to go into this in more detail. It's not a simple cash drawer. We agree on that. It listens closely where you do things. But in this way we must decide how much deficit we find acceptable and whether or not we are going to increase the burden. That will then end up in the hands of the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u13	I agree. I will go into the Stability and Growth Pact and the 60% in detail in a moment. Mr Nijboer also asked. By the way, I will also mention that as a cabinet, we are still coming up with a more thorough response before the end of the year. But let me specifically take that point of balance between household debt and government debt, because I recognize that. I think it is fair to say that this is due in particular to the previous cabinet that there have really been some signs of resistance in the area of household debt. We started with different loan standards. We've intervened in the housing market. This is going to help to ensure that people are not really attached to these houses and then they are not actually able to move, which closes the housing market and then also the economy. Many of the international experts indicate that the Dutch housing market is still quite volatile and that this in itself poses a risk to the economy. I think that's true. That discussion on how to further reduce household balance sheets will really stay with us for some time. Mr Van Otterloo is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u14	The Minister said that in November there will be a letter from the cabinet on the SME reform. That's very nice. At the risk of asking the Minister, but then it can also be done in the second term: there is also a beautiful Bruins/Paternotte motion from September last year, 31936, no. 680. It calls for improvements to be made to the SME principles in the context of aviation and the effects of infrastructure. Is it about that motion? And if not, is that motion going to be in that review too? And if not, when will that motion be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u15	Of course, I have that motion in my mind very clearly. I'm gonna get up and sleep with it. But the investigation is wider. The research is really about the SMEA. I recognise, moreover, that some parties feel more than others the need to link this motion to the aviation debate. I have to look at this because, frankly, I do not know to what extent that report is likely to deal with this motion and this discussion. If that does not happen, I suspect that at least two Members of your Chamber will say: then we have an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u16	A further specification in the second term would be nice. It may also, for example, include a letter from the Ministry of IenW before that report arrives in November, so that we all know what the planning is for the implementation of this motion. I'd be happy to pass that on through this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u17	Then I'd do it like this. The investigation's been going on for a while. I think the researchers are asking now... Let me start with something else. If it were true that this is part of the scope, then there is actually no problem, because then Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte are served at their beck and call. If it weren't, I don't think it would be lucky to ask the researchers to do that. Then the cabinet has to come up with a response on how it still implements the motion. I will ask the Minister of IenW to respond. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the second block: public finances and budgetary policy. It is painful to say, but the budget has a historic budget deficit of more than 7% by 2020 and more than 5% next year, all back in the middle scenario. You also feel like I'm gonna have to let that lean on me for the rest of my life. The government debt rises to over 60%, while the debt before corona was well below 50%. If we had not received corona, I could have imagined a debate in which some people here had said: why is money being paid back into the state treasury? Mr. Chairman. This major deficit is due to a combination of severe economic setbacks, which we all see, of course, as well as very substantial aid measures. Everyone knows from the Millions Note an amount of aid which is now estimated at about 62 billion. These are both fiscal measures and real expenditure measures. In addition, there is another 62 billion or 60 billion in guarantees, of which you can count on the fact that they will largely, but not entirely, come back. We can do this expenditure and absorb this shock partly because we have built buffers over the past few years and because we have maintained the trend in fiscal policy as well and as badly as we have done. I do believe that Mr Bruins and Mr Stoffer are right to draw attention to the deterioration in public finances. They therefore ask about the desired level of government debt. Perhaps it would be a good idea to make something more general about this. My concern is not so much about the one-off costs and the downfall of the V, so the one-off costs of corona and the one-off losses of revenue. As far as I am concerned, that is not the big problem. That's why I'm relatively relaxed. Of course, it hurts your eyes when you see how much money goes out, but I am relatively relaxed when it comes to all those one-off expenses. By the way, I am really convinced that this expenditure is urgently needed to sustain the economy. My concern, and I think that this is also behind Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins' question, is how you move forward in the longer term. This depends very much on how much you will actually have something that looks like a V, where the target point or the end of the second leg of the V is as high as the first, or that you will end up on a significantly lower growth path. Because if you do, you have a spending pattern that grows and a revenue pattern that also grows, but at a lower level. Then your problem is actually getting a little bit bigger every year. But it is not yet possible to see whether that is the case and to what extent it is. See also the very different assessments of how the economy will recover in the near future. But if there is a second lockdown and if corona stays in the world longer than we now think and hope, it is fair to say that you will have to intervene again. That's inevitable. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say to Mr Bruins and Mr Stoffer that it is, by the way, a conscious choice to make these expenses now. I really think that this is the sensible answer from a macro-economic point of view. Had we not done it from some kind of treasury-like logic, this would have done enormous damage to the economy and the treasury would then have been presented with the account. Because we wouldn't have seen an economic recovery. Then we would have had even lower tax revenues and the WW was now overcrowded. So that would really have been a straight-up argument. Mr Bruins and others have either expressed opinions or asked questions about what is the ideal level of debt. I think the honest answer is that nobody really knows that. There are countries with very high levels of debt. Think of Japan where it is strangely good with a real debt of 200%, which the economists have been amazed about for years. In the meantime, Mr Azarkan is making an upward gesture, and that public debt is even higher. There are also countries, in particular developing countries, where a debt of some tens of percentage points that is still growing, is very quick to panic because it is immediately about their creditworthiness. So there's no exact answer. It is true that in the end that degree of debt gives an indication to the financial markets about your creditworthiness. It is not for nothing that countries like Germany and the Netherlands with a very solid reputation can borrow the cheapest. Moreover, part of the irony is that countries with relatively low public debt could actually afford more than some other countries with higher public debt. That's kind of the paradox. That is also the paradox of the European conversation. Everyone lies along the same measuring bar, but in fact those who were well on the right side of the 60% could have been able to afford a little more than those who were well over 100%, while sometimes the trend was exactly the other way round. Apart from public finances, the crucial question is how to ensure sustainable economic growth, which is ultimately the best way to get these public finances in order. That is precisely one of the major problems in Europe. For corona, too, we were already a continent with low economic growth, with a constantly complex discussion of the budget. Moreover, I would like to add my inspiration to Mr Sneller's remark, not only for the Netherlands but also for many other countries, that there is a relatively high level of consumption and relatively little investment, regardless of the fact that you cannot fully figure out what consumption is and what an investment is. So my estimate is that this debate will remain with us. I am of the opinion that it would be wise, in the end, to put these public finances in order, because this will help with the creditworthiness and the buffer for bad times. I have taken an interest in the views of the SP Group, but 90% and 120%, where it is still unclear whether that is for good or bad times, would really not be the line of the cabinet. However, I will come up with a broader reflection on each of these points that I have just mentioned. I will do so before the end of this year, because I expect this discussion to take place in Europe as well. It was actually announced for corona but it will gain even more traction, so is my estimate. Mr Stoffer referred several times to the importance of the buffers and the stress test and was therefore in line with the Council of State. So I very much agree with the Council of State that in the end you are also doing well to rebuild those buffers. What I do not agree with the Council of State is that in the short term you should raise taxes, because you do not yet know exactly what the economic weather looks like from, say, the summer of next year. My estimate is that a subsequent cabinet would do well to re-establish the status of the crop after a year or two, and then possibly reshape the beacons again by either reforming further, or simply continuing on the path taken, or cutting back. It's just not clear yet. So I very much agree with the first point of the Council of State, and I do not agree with the second point regarding the short-term. Some members have asked about the debt in combination with reforms. Mr Nijboer also referred to the broader vision of the Stability and Growth Pact. These reforms have also been at the heart of the debate in Europe, however difficult sometimes politically, are, of course, ultimately a means of achieving more sustainable economic growth. The recipe and type of reform vary, of course, from one Member State to another. In one Member State it is possible to have the housing market, in the other Member State it may be the tax system. I can also think of a Member State where the legal system is, the speed with which you have access to a judge. In a lot of countries, it's things that also have to do with the labour market. So it's a very wide palette. The CSRs, the country-specific recommendations, the country-specific recommendations, the European Commission's country-specific recommendations, are very helpful in this respect, because they quite clearly point the finger at the different Member States. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have said it clearly enough, but I would like to say to Mr Nijboer, in addition to what I just said, that before the end of the year I will come up with a broad reflection on stability and growth. I will also take with me the European side of the debate and interest rate policy. Mr Nijboer asked me another question which I can lively imagine and which I have asked myself, namely: should you no longer hold the blame? That's exactly what we started. This trend has been going on a little longer. Of course, you never know for sure if the interest rate will be lower. That is the dilemma: are you wise by choosing a very long term or are you still a thief of your own wallet, because it can be even lower? At the same time I have something like "if you're around zero, then that's actually good. Why would you try even more for a dime in the front row?" That is why the durations in 2012 were still three and a half years, now around six, seven. That is precisely the reason why last week the Agency put a 30-year loan on the market, for the first time in a long time, at a rate of 0.046% said in my mind, I was written a nice note that it did not turn out to be 0% and that they too regret it, but I was able to live with it in the end. I very much agree with the inspiration behind Mr Nijboer's question. Mr Bruins asked about different scenarios regarding discount rates and productivity growth. That is a very understandable question. The scenarios he asked for are also partly reflected in the CPB ageing studies, I believe from December last year. What I could say to Mr Bruins is that I will come back with a letter in which I will address the problem of discount rates and productivity growth in detail, and finally also the discussion of the sustainability balance. This is, of course, also a politically very relevant discussion that often comes from behind. Especially that shelf life balance is a very volatile thing. This has also become more relevant, see also Mr Stoffer's comments the day before yesterday, such as sustainability has become a more relevant issue at all, because the problem we now have is not so much a short-term problem but potentially a long-term one. I am therefore happy to give him the letter on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Slootweg asked why the collective burden pressure is rising again from 2023 and to which group it is falling. For the record, this collective burden burden reflects the impact of EMU revenue as a percentage of the economy and thus says less about the annual experience of burden development. In fact, this so-called policy burden development is more in line with what citizens and businesses experience. The bigger point here is, of course, that the costs in the Netherlands are quite high, at least they are considered quite high, no matter how much the current cabinet has done about them. We've had that discussion here before. Occasionally I felt that there was almost no working against the so-called basic path. I do not blame previous Cabinets, but the burden was increased by a billion or seven in this cabinet period, as they were on the shelf. Compared to this increase, this cabinet has always taken off slices, particularly on the part of citizens and far less on the part of businesses. The real dilemma - I think Mr Slootweg will recognize that - is that that is, of course, something to give. You have a certain economic growth, you want to make very substantial investments in society, you want to reduce the burden as much as possible and you want to transfer as little as possible to the next generation. And in there, you're always looking for balance. I think that we have managed to strike that balance relatively well, but it is true that many citizens and businesses experience a high burden and have a low so-called disposable income when compared to other countries. So that's a point of interest. The other side is that, of course, with all the things that may be better in the public sector, compared to many countries, we also have really excellent facilities that are very widely accessible, no matter what people deserve. Whether it's about education, public health or matters like safety. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked: can we not somehow give the burden a normal place in future budgetary policy? I'm sure it could be. That simply depends on whether the forming parties consider it appropriate and want to agree. Mrs De Vries said that was an echo of a debate that I had already had with Mrs Hennis on the windfall formula "that she would very much like to get into a situation in which she has wealth to share in this cabinet period. As optimistic as I am, if I'm honest, I don't think the odds are so great that that's gonna make a lot of money. See also the states of the Prince's Daypieces, in which you just see how government revenue falls significantly. Then it is interesting that you initially think that for example the Vpb is recovering to an important extent and you read in the explanatory notes that part of that recovery is actually due to a specific mutation at ProRail. So you can see that this Vpb is actually much lower than this year. So I guess next year we'll definitely have a problem with the revenue. And although I understand the logic behind such a formula in itself, you should, like what I just said to Mr Slootweg, want to meet as a budgetary policy with a subsequent cabinet. Mr Slootweg was critical of regular expenditure and corona expenditure, including in the figures. We tried to do that as best we could, but apparently we should have done it even better. So what I would like to promise him is that we will at least do our best to put the different categories of expenditure side by side and clarify what is normal and what is corona-related. Because if you dig through all those pieces, you will find tables and overviews at some point, but not in the summary and not in the first 50, 60 pages of the Millions note; I do recognize that. So I'll try to fix that with the Navy Note. Then I will also take his second point, because he also asked for a distinction to be made between cure and care in relation to healthcare expenditure and to see what is political and what is extra. I think that was four quadrants; at least that's how I understood him. We'll try to do that. Mrs De Vries asked me a little more like Mr Sneller's question, or Mrs De Vries actually asked it more explicitly about the presentation of investment in the national budget. To be honest, I think that is sensible, because I think that can also help the debate on what to consume and what to invest. When we were preparing for the debate, I was also pleased to hear that the Study Group on Budgets is likely to devote a great deal of attention to this. I haven't seen that advice myself, but I have already signed the letters to the First and Second Chamber that those documents are coming. Mrs De Vries knows that I also have no influence on those documents. However, I would be very surprised if it did not cover this issue as well. Then, of course, that is something that you could really take with you in a next Millions note and in a subsequent coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. That's what I had on public finances and fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u18	I have a number of Members of Parliament who would like to interrupt: Mr Azarkan, Mr Alkaya, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan, Mr Bruins and Mr Stoffer. First Mr. Azarkan. Move along a little bit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u19	In a rush. Is the Minister now finished with the Stability and Growth Pact and the commitment of the Netherlands: how are we going to look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u20	I'm starting to doubt myself, but my impression is that I did. I have tried to name a number of elements that I think are very relevant in this discussion, ranging from growth to low interest rates to the debt you already have at some point, to the distinction between consumption and investment and a number of other things. It is a fundamental point and it is a debate that is so evidently taking place not only in this debate, but also in Europe, that I think it is wise for the cabinet to come up with a broader appreciation. My previous commitment to Mr Nijboer and Mr Sneller has been that I will try to do so before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr Van Raan and I indeed doubted whether you had finished. I await that reflection, partly because we have of course seen a discussion in which Klaas Knot says: the Stability and Growth Pact in this form is simply no longer sustainable. We see countries that have huge sovereign debts and that are sustainable. I have heard the Minister say that we in the Netherlands are thrifty and that we have looked carefully at how we could get to that 48%. Fortunately, we can now afford to meet our entrepreneurs well. But everything falls or stands for the fact that we have extremely low interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u22	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u23	It is even more important than that we have been very economical. Hail that we have all done so, by the way, in the previous cabinet far too much.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u24	Maybe two more comments on this. I hope that Mr Azarkan will find it an idea to wait for that reflection, in which I will go into more detail. There is a national and an international side to that discussion. I think we should have that national debate anyway; see also the debate here. That international discussion is very much about what you can meet, what you can rely on and what you find sensible anchors. What I find complicated is that something is getting mixed up here. What is potentially economically sensible and how did Member States see that they were having trouble with the picket posts that were there? They're gonna want to take advantage of the opportunity to expand those picket posts. All of a sudden, when that bar goes up, it's easier to get close to it than that 60%. I think that would be the wrong reasoning. I think you really should look at this much more economically than politically. The second thing I would like to say about it is that, of course, the big problem with these European budgetary rules was not that they were imperfect. All the rules people make up are imperfect. That 60% and that 3% had at least the big advantage that it was clear. The agreements on the preventive arm and the corrective arm were able to explain and test the majority of politicians. The big problem of the rules in Europe has, of course, been the absolutely poor compliance. Many Member States have failed to comply with these rules year after year. Many committees lacked the will or courage or a combination of both to ensure that those rules were complied with. See the situation we're in right now. We would have just had another discussion if each of the Member States of the European Union had been below 60%. That's just reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u25	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u26	I am certainly waiting for those broad reflections that have been promised to colleagues. I'll come to a conclusion. Of course, it was never maintained. We have sometimes discussed with Wim Kok, a great statesman, who said at one of the last performances of the Council of State: we should have just maintained at that time. They haven't been respected, but they haven't been enforced. In fact, you can say that they have never been applied in that sense to a large extent either. And yet we've done it. I think we are now at a turning point and we must say: how can you come up with something where you have a Stability and Growth Pact, but not those absolute numbers? How do you make that a little dependent on the circumstances? I'll wait for the analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u27	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u28	Can I make two more comments, Mr President? By the way, I very much agree with what Kok said earlier. That is, of course, the tragedy of this arrangement: that we have not been able to find a mode with each other to maintain it. Once again, the paradox I mentioned earlier in the debate is that countries with relatively strong economies have managed to maintain the rules that were not enforced themselves. See Sweden, see Denmark, see many of the Eastern European countries, see Germany and see Netherlands. A number of other countries felt that it was wise not to apply these rules. According to the WEF, the Netherlands had the most competitive economy in Europe before corona. A situation with 45% debt and a thriving economy is simply different from a situation with a sovereign debt somewhere between 100% and 160%, a shrinking or barely growing population, very little productivity growth and little economic growth. That's just a lot harder. But repentance comes after sin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr Alkaya, then Mr Nijboer and then, I think, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u30	A rhetorical trick that is often used in this Chamber, and not least by this minister, is that you pull the argument of the opponent into the extreme, ridicule and make a little mockery. Then you act like you're the only one who makes sensible policies. This is also the case with public finances: as if the Minister is the only one who realizes that in times when things are going well, you have to build a buffer so that you can spend it in the economy if things are getting worse economically. I said the exact same thing. I have discussed in detail with Mr Sneller that, as far as I am concerned, and as far as many economists are concerned, if things are bad economically, the debt in the Netherlands can go well to 90% and perhaps even to 120%. The Minister is acting as if there is any ambiguity about it or anything like that. Not at all. If things go badly economically, the Dutch economy may have to go to 90% or 120% of public debt. That's not an end in itself, but the economy can have it. My question to the Minister is whether the blinders which apparently make him think that this could not be an obstacle to policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u31	I don't recognize myself entirely in the reproaches, and not at all because of the fact that, of course, I started by saying that no one can actually call an exact number. No one can say what the point is where you're always right and above which things always go wrong. Unfortunately, the world is not that simple. I wanted to mark that anyway. I also wanted to point out that, at least listening to the speakers here, Mr Alkaya is on one side of the spectrum with 90% to 120%. That is really a different sound than the sound I have heard from the Christian Union, the SGP and also from a number of other parties. It is true that economists differ on this, but I do not know many Dutch economists who say that in good weather you could actually be around 120%. I myself would find that really unwise, because then you take great risks compared to the buffers and you don't know exactly what that does to your ability to raise capital. The point that should also be highlighted here: yes, we can do a lot of those things thanks to the very low interest rate. Mr Azarkan is right about that. But what goes around, comes around. You're gonna have to pay back that debt sometime, or you're gonna have to extend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u32	Fortunately, I haven't heard anyone in this Chamber say that if things are going well economically, you have to be around 120% of public debt against the economy. That's not what I'm saying. All I'm saying is that now that this is going badly, it can't be an obstacle to intervention in the economy. Because now things are going badly in the outside world. Entrepreneurs, employees and flex workers are having a hard time. The public debt is now far from 120%, and it is going badly economically. So the government debt could double. The government could do much more to help the economy, for example by not scaling down the aid packages. Therefore, once again, my question to the Minister: is public debt currently an obstacle to doing nothing more in the economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u33	No. That's what I've been saying here. By the way, even if you were to spend money on the support packages in the short term, the effect on that percentage is very limited. Ultimately, the debate is much more about the long-term sustainability of public finances. That is why I wanted to outline that at the beginning. Putting another few hundred million or a few billion into a package is a lot of money. That, too, is taxpayers' money, and we also need to be careful about it. But that is not ultimately what will spoil public finances in the long term. In addition, I have always said to the Prime Minister and others: we are just doing what is necessary. I think that everyone in this Chamber recognizes that a lot of things have been added to these support packages in the last nine months. New is, for example, the whole piece that deals with retraining and from work to work. The TVL has even been expanded. The elements that you could qualify as phasing-out elements are mainly later in the process. They are not in the period from 1 October to 31 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u34	I would like to highlight this moment in the debate. The Minister of Finance is actually saying: we are going to look fundamentally at the Stability and Growth Pact, which should be at odds. The position of the Netherlands in recent times was that it had to be simpler and that punishments had to be imposed if people didn't stick to it. In this economic situation in Europe, I think it would be wise, also for the credibility of the euro, not to insist that each country should return to 60% and come within that 3% as soon as possible, because this ultimately undermines faith and confidence in the euro. Do I understand the Minister for Finance that he is really prepared to look at this fundamentally, also given the importance of economic growth, given the low interest rates and therefore the limited pressure on public finances, including in other countries? I share with him that debts matter. Is he prepared to take that look at the Stability and Growth Pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u35	Yeah, I want to take a fundamental look at that. However, Mr Nijboer's conclusion is that we are going to call all kinds of things into question. With that, I really want to make a pass on the spot. I think that you should see what the current economic situation tells us and that you should also take with you the compliance that has been there. So you have to take the status of the crop into the different economies and also take it with you how you can get back to business in the future. Is it out of the question that you're going on exactly the same path? No, that's not out of the question. But I'm also just a realist. I'm just looking at the discussion that's coming to us. I am very sorry to say that I think that this is unwise, as we have to note that 15 years of hammering from countries like the Netherlands and Germany on compliance with the SGP rules has had virtually no effect. That is the reality. I find that unfortunate. I think that's a missed opportunity. I think that if we had, if the Commission had and if countries had, the misery would have been less. But it is part of what has happened over the past 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u36	There is no doubt that the strict rules have not been applied. As an economist, you can ask yourself whether the deficits would not have been much greater in France, Spain and other countries if we had not had those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u37	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u38	For the Netherlands that was certainly so, I can tell from my own experience. But I don't want to go into that right now. The Netherlands always respects international agreements on budgetary policy. Does the Minister agree with the PvdA that economic growth is a very important foundation under Dutch fiscal policy and that low interest rates are also a relevant criterion? That was, of course, the idea of extending interest rates, which the Minister is in favour of. In the past, when we paid 5% of GDP in interest, that interest reduced all public expenditure: education, health care. Of course, that's not the case anymore. And if you have a longer term, you also have more adjustment time. This idea could also be applied at European level. That's complicated, because it's also about risk weighting on government bonds, because you also have to pay if there's too much debt. Is the Minister open to such an idea? That would really improve fiscal policy both in terms of content and economics and in terms of the future, because you are making room for investment in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u39	I have to give a somewhat layered answer, because this is a debate about ifs and buts. I understand very well what Mr Nijboer is doing. He's actually asking me for some kind of fast forward on what I want to investigate. I really want to keep up that the broad reflection has yet to come. What do I agree with and where would I like to hit a picket pole myself? I very much agree with Mr Nijboer when he says that the rules on the one hand... Or let me speak for myself: I think that these rules have worked completely insufficiently and have been poorly observed. That's what I'm gonna keep going. I do agree with Mr Nijboer: if you hadn't had any rules at all, there was a great chance that you would have gone further into the swamp. I agree with him. I also agree with him that the dilemma of low interest charges is much smaller. A predecessor like Kok or Ruding really had that dilemma on a daily basis: you gave in on a particular expenditure, and the next year you were happy again with 6%, 7%, 8% or 9% in your budget, then still on every guilder you borrowed. That's what you see in the Millions Note. I remember when I started in the First Chamber, the amount of interest charges, on a much smaller budget, was 6.6 billion. I think it was 4.5 last year, and this year 3.7, I'm gonna say it out of my head. So even though you borrow more and your debt position is a completely different one, you have a smaller amount of interest on a larger budget. That's a relevant fact. You have to say, however, that in part of Mr Nijboer's argument, I have the need to go the other way too, and that is why having anchors is extremely important in these discussions. The problem has been real compliance, and solid public finances are an incredibly important means of achieving a goal. So I am really not quite there yet, perhaps there is a bit of disappointment in hidden issues, to say: let's call these rules into question in this debate. I'd think that was really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u40	First Mr Bruins, then Mr Stoffer and then Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u41	The former McKinseyman Tom Peters once said: if you are not confused, you have not been paying attention. Now I listened very carefully to the Minister, so I've gotten a little confused. He has addressed in detail the questions that not only I, but also Mr Snels, Mr Sneler, Mr Stoffer and Mr Nijboer asked about public debt and the sustainability of public finances. Then he said: I will come forward with reflections before the end of the year, with an analysis which includes European interest rate policy. Now I thought: that is a very nice execution of that rather intelligent motion-Bruins/Snels about last year's Navy note, in part no. 8 of file number 35350. But then he said in a separate answer, five minutes after, all of a sudden: I come with a letter about scenarios where interest rates are lower than growth rates. But the first part, these reflections before the end of the year, is about scenarios where interest rates are lower than growth rates, because otherwise the concept of sustainability has no meaning at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u42	No. It's definitely two things. If Mr Bruins says 'I actually want to unpack two gifts separately', I will give him that immediately. I can imagine that he may have looked with resentment, because I have just parked that SGP point more verbally with Mr Sneller and Mr Nijboer. It is true that others too are already standing, I see Mrs De Vries, Stoffer and a number of others, including Mr Slootweg, who have also repeatedly made that point in various debates. Why are there two different discussions? The first discussion is about sustainability and also, let me say, the Dutch discussion; how do we deal with the reports of the planning agency? It is, of course, an extension, but it is a separate commitment and I think it also justifies a separate letter. By the way, I'd be happy to cluster it if that's helpful. The second discussion is much more about the question: how do you deal with European budgetary rules? I understand Mr Nijboer's encouragement, but I think that the cabinet is really different from the PvdA Group. At the same time, I agree with all those in the Chamber who say: yes, but circumstances have changed. So at least you have to ask yourself how you relate to that. That's one. Two. Apart from what you think, you're also naive when you think the playing field isn't changing. By definition, I think you just, from a political and diplomatic point of view, have to ask yourself the question: if that comes to me, what is our position? That can be one from resistance to the bitter end; that cannot be ruled out either. However, you must note that we have followed a route in the past, with a lot of criticism, and I think it is absolutely right to criticise different committees and different Member States. Mr Nijboer is a little more optimistic than I am; he says 'it would have been worse'. At the same time, I find that a rather thin one. All the efforts and all the sorrows that have been in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u43	It's not working out yet. I don't need two presents. I only need one present, as long as it's complete. The Bruins/Snels motion asks for the following scenarios to be passed on. What does sustainability mean for finances and what does it mean when the discount rate is long-term lower than the growth rate? Whether that comes in a letter or in those reflections, I don't care. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But it is necessary that we for the next cabinet formation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u44	Sure. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u45	...know what sustainability means in the new normal where interest rates are lower than productivity growth. We really need that before 17 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u46	In fact, I actually promised it in a shorter period of time, but if I get more time, I'll take it immediately. As for those gifts: I learn at the kitchen table at home every day that if you unpack two presents, the joy of celebration is bigger than if you hide it all in one gift box. So that's where my inspiration came from. But if Mr Bruins is asking for all of this to be done at the same time, I will, of course, do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u47	Finally, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u48	The original motion asked to do it before the election programs were written, so I won't give the minister any more time. He's over time, and we need it fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u49	Good. Now I go to Mr Stoffer, then to Mrs Aukje de Vries and then to Mr Slootweg. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u50	When I hear the discussion just now, it strengthens my view that South and Northern Europe simply do not fit together in monetary terms. But that's not what this is about. I have another question. This minister also belongs to the party that generally talks about standards. I think that is already a long discussion. I think it is very nice to hear this Minister say that his value is that public finances need to be put in order...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u51	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u52	'Cause that state debt has to be paid off someday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u54	Anyway, values are beautiful, but they get real meaning with a standard. I wonder if this minister's standard is the same as mine. It is that this 60% is the upper limit and then the public debt has to be brought back, in order to deal with the next crisis. I didn't hear about that. That's what's going on. Maybe that's what's in that note at the end of the year, but I'd like to be clear about that now. What's he heading for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u55	There were, of course, some serious complaints in terms of standards and values. I'm just gonna try to process it myself. Let me not try to argue that here. I think it is really wise to go into this more broadly in the reflection that comes before December. However, to reassure you, I would say to Mr Stoffer: just for a whole volatile economy such as the Dutch economy, and precisely in the situation we are in as a continent today, it is obvious to reduce that huge debt mountain significantly again, especially in some of those countries which are far over 100%. It is simply a millstone around the neck of those countries which have a very high debt and which are also linked to low economic growth. Until further notice, therefore, we will simply have to continue to reduce that debt again. However, I have always wanted to highlight in this Chamber that I think that in the short term the narrower importance of the treasury should really be the narrower interest. I think that if we had done it the other way around and we had tried to squeeze us either this year or next year at the expense of virtually everything again into that mold of that 60% and that 3%, then the misery in society would have been much greater. I would like to add, for reasons of relativity, that it is possible in the Netherlands. Think of last year: last year we spent a lot of money in the public sector. A lot of parties think there should have been more, but that fact-checked statement from the Prime Minister that this cabinet has been spending the most since Den Uyl's death, you have to say it, was a long way in the right direction. So we have invested very heavily in society. In addition, last year we considerably reduced the burden. Last year, we repaid 14 billion of public debt. I'm hearing last year's blasphemy. If things are going well in the Dutch economy, it is possible. That puts you in the position where you can take an extreme blow like today's. Finally, the Netherlands owes this triple A status and the fact that we can borrow at such low interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u56	I am pleased that the Minister is much more enthusiastic about the windfall formula than last year, when he opposed it quite frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u57	Most ribbed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u58	Well, I got the feeling he was resisting. Anyway, we'll leave it to the rest to judge. I think the Minister is a bit easy to say: they are never going to happen again. After all, I can assume that this cabinet is committed to beating the economic figures in a positive way with all of us. My specific question is as follows. The Minister said that the Study Group on Budget Space is coming up with his story. I would like to know when that will appear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u59	Two things. I do not want to spoil the enthusiasm again, of course, but last year I tried to give the cabinet some more time to say that, although I understand the inspiration, such a fundamental adjustment to the government's budgetary policy is not obvious. I can understand the political inspiration very well. I did not just want to point out that it should be with a subsequent government agreement, but also that I do not expect to have so much wealth to share in the short term, no matter how much I look forward to the time when a successor will be able to do so again. That is what I wanted to say in that context. I hope I haven't completely made the enthusiasm disappear like snow before the sun. Let me turn to the second point concerning investment. They'll be included in the report that goes to the Chamber. I suspect that's gonna be somewhere in the next few weeks, this week or next week. I have signed the letters to the Presidents of the First and Second Chambers. That report will appear in my bag this week or next week. Then that linea recta goes to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u60	At least we'll put that windfall formula on the list for the next cabinet formation. Then there's another point. The Minister said: I will also move that investment story to the Study Group on Budget Space. I find that too easy and too short a turn. It wasn't just about investment that I was talking about, because I think you can have endless discussions about that. I was mainly concerned with what is now contributing to growth. I sometimes get the idea that only the National Growth Fund contributes to growth, but I think a lot of investment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u61	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u62	... which are now included in the budget also contribute to growth. I think that we should have the overall view of that too. I believe that this should be made more explicit and clearer in future budgets. My question to the Minister was to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u63	Well, then, here's what we're gonna do. I sincerely do not know the study group's report yet. It seems that they really wanted to lay their own eggs about this. It may well be that they have already included recommendations on how to deal with them in the budgetary system, but I simply do not know. What if I send that report to your Chamber and Mrs De Vries does not think that this is enough? Then I suggest that we retake the debate on this in writing or not. In any case, I am going to indicate how the Ministry of Finance intends to include this point, for example, in the next Millions Note. Is that how you're gonna let us get on with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u65	I asked a question about the standardization of charges. That was not just my proposal; that was also a proposal from the Council of State. I understand that it is part of the formation, but the Council of State, of course, knows that. I think you should do a number of things in preparation for that. The tricky thing is that the Study Group on Budgets is simply going over its own agenda. At that point, I'll be struggling a little bit. We're getting a recommendation from the Council of State. The Minister also says that the political burden was growing; I was actually just trying to reduce it a little bit. Then how do we take this? Because of course it is still strange that every windfall, bumps, gets into the treasury and the taxpayer doesn't feel anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u66	Yes and no. I was able to imagine that discussion last year in a way. But if I have to try to flush the film forward, I think we are facing a period in which, of course, you are hoping that economic growth will increase, but it is going to ask for a phase of reform at all, and that is not to rule out austerity. Think of the revenue, which probably goes down a much lower path, and the expenditure, which goes down the current path with perhaps even a little bit more on top of it. I'm not even ready for me to see for the very near future that we need this and that we just have that space. That's one way. The second side. I understand that Mr Slootweg says: yes, but at least I want to have the opportunity to arrange this, for example, at a subsequent formation. Here's what I'm gonna do. I just don't know if this has been worked out by the study group. If it wasn't worked out by the study group, then we're going to do it in the Ministry of Finance so that there's a piece for the formation about: if you want something on this, how could you take that into your budgetary system? I would also like to share that piece with Parliament, but it will have to be done shortly after the elections. I'm willing to try to produce that. I still have to see whether I will do it myself or whether I will marry someone else, but at least there will be an answer to the question. I am a little reluctant to say to those who say: when will the ship come back with the golden apples?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u67	I understand that in the meantime I also get the image of a big spear, but I think I'm always very careful about developing that kind of expectations myself. I do notice that that is not so crazy about how the political process is going to go on, that we always think that we can drive this from the government. I see and advocate that, in your balancing framework, you also give space to citizens and businesses, because at the moment their burdens are reduced, their growth potential is greater. That is not currently in the current trend of budgetary policy and not in the salmon standard. That is why I am looking at it, but I welcome the Minister's commitment to look at it, should the Budget Space Study Group not have gotten there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u68	I'm going to, but I'm going to go back in context and history for a short while. The classic salmon standard focused on the expenditure side of the budget. That's how Zalm started once. On the revenue side he has also made all kinds of adjustments in the various years. It was precisely the system on the expenditure side. That was a huge gain compared to the irregularity in the budgetary process in the years before. That's a huge profit. This has also been increasingly applied to the revenue side. However, several Cabinets, including this Cabinet and certainly the Cabinets that Zalm himself has been a part of, have always been more open to movements one way or the other. In fact, the previous cabinet did both. It first intervened on the revenue side and then also a substantial relief of I think 5.1 billion included in, I think, the Prinsdag pieces of 2014. These were then for the financial year 2015. Mr. Chairman. I'm on block three: the support measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u69	Yes, but Mr Snels also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u70	I am concerned about a short commitment. I have kept my distance from the debate on public debt, budgetary rules and also the discount rate, because we have had this debate many times in general terms. The Minister has always said that reflections are coming. The motion by Mr Bruins and myself on discount rates was also from three quarters of a year ago. I would like the Minister's undertaking that we will really get these reflections and those studies to the Chamber with the Navy Note, because then we will be able to conduct this debate in greater depth on the basis of facts, arguments and analysis in the debate on the Navy Note. I think that's a good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u71	I just don't know if we're gonna make it. In my opinion, the debate on the Navy note is in the last week, so I think it should work. I'm sure I'd like to make that effort. I can say that, with everything that has happened over the past few weeks, it is really all hands on deck. I'd like to put one more thing aside. I'm giving the Chamber some reflections, but let's be real. We are also dealing with gravity as developed from Europe. A subsequent cabinet has, of course, to make its own arrangements in this European context. So Mr Snels will not have his whole and stick to my reflections...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u72	I just heard from our clerk that 16 December is the debate on the Navy note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u73	I'm gonna try. I'm gonna do my best to get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u74	No, Mr. Alkaya. A very short question, and then we go to the next... Yeah, you only asked two questions, so that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u75	With this we have dealt with public finances, because that was the block. I feel that what the Minister has said here cannot be combined. That is why I would like to take one example to understand the position of the Minister in this whole debate on public debt. He says to me: the debt is indeed not a problem at the moment. At the same time he says to others: yes, but of course it continues to play; it remains important. Take the bonus discussion into care. The picture is that he has been behind the scenes the one who has ensured that not every employee in the care gets a bonus, but only a specific group. Then what was the balance? If the sovereign debt isn't the problem, then what is it? What exactly is the Minister's position in this sovereign debt debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u76	I am generally very relaxed in the most remarkable images that are sketched about what I would do and leave behind the scenes. In this case, I think I can really rid Mr Alkaya of that image. But I don't really think it's that relevant either. The relevant point is, of course, the following, and the government does disagree with the SP Group on a number of dossiers. If it were the case that you could deal with your sovereign debt in a different way and that Corona in particular gives you a title for it, then it is still money that the taxpayer has earned with hard work and you still have the question of how to handle it wisely, because it is still money that you have to spend in scarcity. There are always more ideas and more plans than there is financial space. My observation is that the cabinet has taken very substantial steps in the entire corona file, including that bonus. Mr Alkaya says: yes, but I want more. To be honest, I do not know of a single file on which Mr Alkaya would no longer want to spend, except perhaps Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to block three: the aid measures. I would like to briefly remind you that this really is an unprecedented package, with support and perspective on the one hand, in the second place stimulating and adapting in the third place. To be honest, that is a reasonable combination of things that we are trying to settle. I will address some of the specific questions. Secretary of State Vijlbrief will specifically address the issue of deferred tax payments. Mr. Chairman. The most important thing we are doing is continuing support measures. I also said here during the previous debate, where I stood with the ministers Wiebes and Koolmees, that it was right that I noticed that a lot of entrepreneurs, including entrepreneurs we are talking about, say: this package helps enormously, but it would also be nice to have clarity over a longer period of time and to know what the future will bring. That is precisely why, as a cabinet, we have said: let us make a nine-month package. Yeah, with little accent shifts in every three-month period. But as an entrepreneur in the Netherlands, which is really different than in most other countries, you know what you're up to in the summer. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer asked about SMEs in this context. It is absolutely right that SMEs are of great importance for a good recovery after the crisis. This is precisely the reason why many of the measures are very keen on SMEs and SMEs have also made very wide use of many of the credit schemes of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan asked if we have developed scenarios on how to deal with the budget in the second corona wave. Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer also asked in that direction. The strength of this package is that it breathes with economic development. At the moment when the economy is really going bad, you see a lot of companies getting into those schemes for quite a lot of money. Look what happened in the first three months. The other side is that in the second period, that period of four months, you have seen a much smaller number of companies still using it, for example the NOW scheme. My estimate is that you will see that movement again over the next few months. If things get worse, more companies will need it and they will also move towards those arrangements. If things get better, they'll take less place. And here's what I'm gonna do. It was me last week... Or was it two weeks ago? I think it was last week. I very much agreed with Mr Asscher at the time, who said: shouldn't you measure it again anyway to see if you have designed it wisely? I think he highlighted that moment in January. We'll do it anyway and we'll keep doing it. But I find the combination of continuing the main route plus much more attention to things like retraining and work-to-work, plus extending that TVL scheme.................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked why we did not also delete the partner test. That is actually an echo of the debate we have had on this subject before. On the one hand, you're trying to help people as much as you can. On the other hand, you are also trying to get involved in the situation of the normal arrangements, in which citizens are faced with a partner test and by the way also a power test. Of course, there are also Members who say that we want to get rid of it in any case. I think we have designed the Tozo wisely, given precisely the problem and given the system we have in the normal arrangements. By the way, we immediately indicated that we would like to resume the transition to the power test, which we would make on 1 October. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked whether the cabinet was prepared to adapt the support package for the flex workers safety net. In my opinion, in his letter about his search for an extra safety net, Minister Koolmees has already returned everything about it. In my opinion, more than two thirds of flex workers are entitled to WW anyway. We've had a time called TOFA. Honestly, that was a prayer without end. It was a huge puzzle to see if you could reach a larger group. In the end, many fewer people have made use of it than expected. So it has actually become less of a success than we expected. In the debate on 29 September, the Smeulders motion got over that. Of course, this is what the cabinet is going to do, because in this way we want to strengthen the safety net for young people in a number of ways. Among other things, we do this by partially suspending the search period from four weeks until 1 July 2021. Given the sender of that motion, I suspect that Mr Snels is aware of this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked if we are going to look at sectors that are hit hard. Sure. In addition to the generics, we recently made a large package available to the sports clubs, for example, with Prinsjesdag. We do that through the co-governments. We've really been in the pouch again, for example for culture. That amount for culture, if you add up national and regionally, amounts to more than 1 billion. Moreover, part of the cultural sector can, of course, also benefit from the normal arrangements. So far in block three on the arrangements. Then I have a few things about stimulating and adjusting. Mrs De Vries asked whether we could not bring forward further investments. We are doing about 2 billion in total, of which 1.5 billion was found in the August negotiations. We had already come to the conclusion: no one has actually been on the brakes there. We just asked what you could do, which is wise and what you can really make true in the execution. I can assure the Chamber that the Ministers of IenW and BZK have looked very seriously at this, but at some point you are also running into something practical. So this is what they proposed to the cabinet. By the way, parts of these investments, of which BZK is then the main contractor, are sometimes partly on the portfolio of others. Mr. Chairman. The third point in this block concerns adaptation. On the one hand, we all want citizens and businesses to come from one bank to the next, but where that is really very difficult, because a sector is just hit for a long time, you also want to see if you can't encourage adaptation. This has been precisely the reason for making a very strong effort from work to work, retraining and, by the way, also with regard to, for example, poverty policies. In this context, Bruins asked about the implementation of the guarantee fund. 30 million has been set aside for this, partly on the initiative of his own party. This is precisely what we want to be able to solve the problem of debt more quickly. In my view, that is a very sensible part of the tribe of this third part. This comes on top of a lot of policies that we already have, such as SchuldHelpMeat, credit banks and all kinds of poverty policies that lie with the SZW Secretary of State. Many field parties are currently in progress with that Segers motion. The Secretary of State will inform the Chamber of its implementation before the end of the year. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels actually wants to use the budget remaining in the social service in 2020 to provide placements for young people. Look, of course, on the one hand, the cabinet is always open to consultation in terms of effective commitment. But the cabinet also felt that this social service is really important, because that way you want to help young people in the areas of work, skills, the labour market and contributions to society. So it is not for nothing that the cabinet has agreed on this. Mr Wassenberg asked for green recovery. I just said something about that. In the event of interruption, Mr Van Raan also asked how this is or is not part of this. I do not think I need to repeat that. In addition, Mr Wassenberg once again asked about the support package for KLM, the conditions and the green elements in it. I believe that we have discussed this very extensively in previous debates. Mr. Chairman. I have one more thing in this third block. That is the so-called solvency fund, the fund that industry itself has asked for. For the record: we have made a reservation for money on the additional post. In addition, it must really be possible for this to work. We are waiting for it to be worked out. It's a private initiative that private parties want to draw up. It is precisely for a situation that I found to be sensible in the earlier phase, in which you have the bulk of the arrangements and in which a few very large companies, such as KLM, come along specifically. What if a very large group of companies which are just a little less large and which, in the words of Minister Wiebes "can't get customization," still need support? That has been the inspiration to talk about this. I think it makes sense that you want to look at that. At the same time, it is not the case that a huge number of companies have already said that they have to, because otherwise they will not make it through the winter. That money is reserved in the additional post. I think the potential is really a sensible idea, but of course it depends on the pool behind it. Because it's not supposed to make people happy with this against their will. As soon as there is a detailed proposal, we will be happy to discuss it with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That was the third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u79	Okay. Then I have Mr Snels, Mrs Aukje de Vries, Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Raan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u80	A number of questions remain to be asked about the solvency fund. It remains strange that the Finance Minister says: there is an interesting idea coming from the private sector; I do not know exactly what we are going to do yet, but I am going to reserve money. If the Minister of Finance were to operate in this way, there would be a lot of ideas to put in the idea box and reserve money on the supplementary post. But let me first ask another question about the aid measures. The cabinet has taken the whole summer to make a broadly sensible package, I think: nine months ahead, three times three, slowly adjusting, a lot of money for training, retraining and from work to work. In general, I understand that strategy. My concern now, given yesterday's debate, is that we may have more restrictive measures in a few weeks' time. This concerns people and entrepreneurs. My question is whether there will then be room and flexibility to adapt that package on points, for example in terms of phasing out the NOW or specifically to sectors. And can you do that quickly? In my view, that is the question which certainly concerns many companies today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u81	Yes. In my view, the reassuring part of the answer should be that we look again very closely at this package and at the extent to which it looks very much like everything we have done. If you look at this package and compare it with the first phase, the stage of the intelligent lockdown, you can see that this TVL is actually much better than the TOGS we had back then. That was about $4,000 for everyone. In the TVL companies can get much more money, even more than last summer. At that point, the arrangement is really more generous. On a number of dimensions that NOW has changed a bit, but the real tightening is mainly in 2021. If the situation deteriorates dramatically, we will, of course, always see what is sensible. Only now, outside of every once in a while, is the impression that the package of 1 October is a dramatic austerity. There's nothing less true, because there's a lot more to it. The TVL is wider. I've already made a comment on the power test. Everything that is being done in the field of poverty reduction and retraining is all very new money. That comes with it. I also think it is very wise that we should do this. So we shouldn't be tempted to go along with the idea that the package is getting less. I think the package is very robust. I think there will be much more use of it if the economy and society lock up longer. The use of these schemes may then exceed the budgetary estimate. No problem at all. That is what we are going to do, because apparently there are people and companies who need it. And we remain flexible in looking at the next two times three months. Now pretending that the formula of the past six months has always been too little, I do not think it is entirely right. Mr Snels does not do that, but that is sometimes the concern in society. I very much understand that concern, but I would like to take that concern away with that very substantial package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u82	I think we were broadly in agreement on the sensibleness of the strategy, but there are concerns now. Look at the care measures, the masks and the whole discussion. The Minister referred to Mr Asscher's suggestion that we review the package on 1 January to see whether it meets our expectations. Does it help companies? Is it helping employees? Does it provide retraining? Perhaps that moment could come a little sooner, if these restrictive measures were to be extended in a week or three at the end of the day. I would like to know whether the cabinet will then be ready to make adjustments on the basis of an analysis. That's not because we think it's too little, but maybe it's not enough to stop unemployment from getting worse and there's going to be more bankruptcies. Not only does that concern have society, but so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u83	One more time in the right order. Mr Asscher said that in mid-January he seemed a logical moment. I thought so, too. I think the Prime Minister gave a motion of censure to Chamber yesterday to study it over the next few weeks and to see if the package is satisfactory. I think that judgment room is exactly... We also want to show this flexibility. I say quite a lot of words about it because of the context of a package that is really extremely strong and that we have also expanded on many dimensions. I refer again to the "TVL versus TOGS" discussion, and the comparison May-June versus now. I just really want society not to have the impression that there is really something thin left. No, there's something really big on the table. My suspicion is that, if there is less economic activity, more companies will join to make use of it than perhaps in the past summer months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u84	Finally, very briefly, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u85	This sounds like a sensible answer. At least it shows flexibility. I did have a question about that arrangement forzzp'ers. We've had a long discussion about that. With us the inspiration is also really the analysis of the CPB. We see groups of people falling through the safety net. That is why we had a discussion earlier on about the power test and the partner test. Now the cabinet itself, together with the coalition, has already removed the capital test. That's important. A number ofzzp'ers will really be helped with that, but those are just like the zzp'ers who have quite a capacity. But that doesn't apply to the partner test. The Minister cannot say that we also have a capital test and a partner test in the assistance, so that is not fair. 'Cause we don't do that with the power test either. I really think there's a problem here with groups of people, groups ofzzp'ers with a partner who makes little money, somewhere in education or care, that fall through the safety net. I would really like it if the cabinet would delete the capital test, put on the glasses again and look at the partner test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u86	I also understand very well that the challenge from the Chamber is very rarely to say, "Can't it be a little less somewhere?" But it's mostly "can we do something with it somewhere?" I understand that politically, and I can also follow it a long way in terms of substance. The question for us as a cabinet is of course: how do you ensure a broad package that addresses the problem through all kinds of different measures such as incentives, adjustments and pure income support, but that you do so in a reasonable way, including the wider landscape and social security that we have? I think it is wise for the Cabinet to have a capital test and a partner test in the assistance. The reality is, of course, that some parties want to get rid of it anyway. Of course, that also plays a bit through this discussion. I think it's really weighed up that we're a priori trying to bet on a scheme for zzp'ers in corona time wherever those elements are in it. At the same time, of course, it has been said consciously this week: we have taken that bump of the partner test earlier, and let's press the pause button to see how that develops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u87	I think it is a good thing that the cabinet remains in talks with business and entrepreneurs. On the one hand the TVL has been extended, but a number of austerities do take place at the NOW. I think that the new measures pose an additional problem for the catering industry. My point is about investment. The Minister says that 2 billion is maximum achievable. On a budget of this magnitude, I really think that is a limited amount that could be brought forward. I would therefore ask the Minister to say that at the moment that ministries still see a number of opportunities to bring forward investment, for example in the field of defence, that is room for it and that the Minister is therefore cooperating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u88	With all due understanding of Mrs De Vries' wish, I cannot, of course, do so in this generic sense. We have gone through a careful path in the cabinet as to which investments there are and which you can bring forward. Then it is looked at and made by directors an assessment of what can and cannot be done in the shorter and long term and what you have the capacity for. This must then be done in an efficient manner. Some things you may be able to spend in the very short term but not in the most sensible way. That must, of course, be a consideration for public money. You don't want to spend all that money just to get it over the fence. So my impression has really been that the rulers have done that wisely. Of course, when a ruler comes up with a sensible plan and there is also an economic logic for it, I always look. But that this minister, when a general ruler comes up with such a question, who will always answer yes, I hope that Mrs De Vries understands that I cannot do that, no matter how sweet both of the directors of the Defense Department are to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u89	I understand that in a generic sense, saying yes is always complicated for a finance minister. If a specific proposal were to be put forward, with restrictions on nitrogen, for example, which could be solved, which could lead to investment being brought forward, would the Minister be prepared to look at it with an open eye, and if it is effective, then of course the Minister always thinks that I should allow it on his side?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u90	I am almost beginning to get the dark brown suspicion that there is an idea that Mrs De Vries does know and that I do not know and therefore I do not know the hooks and eyes of either. So my tendency is to be more careful. Considering what we've done over the past few months, we've really wanted to see where you can make additional investments that help the economy and society. That's why we asked for it. Then, of course, the door is always open, especially for the directors of Defence, but let me discuss this with them, because I do not want to make them happy through this discussion with a dead sparrow that they might have been in a desk drawer for a long time and which they thought we should come up with a title for it. I am really open to dialogue, but I cannot say that I am going to say yes or no about a semi-concrete plan. That is what I have to have the debate with colleagues on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u91	I think the minister is a little more frightened than he should be. I do not have a concrete plan in mind, but I think we should keep an open mind if investment can be brought forward. Defense was an example. You understand that this is what the VVD cares about. But I can imagine that there are still investments on very other fronts that might be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u92	Once again, however, it is striking that the broad exercise that the cabinet did last summer did not fully meet these criteria. That is what I have to say. But an open look, without a doubt, I say to Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u93	I do not hesitate, as the Minister knows, to make a strong assessment of cabinet policy, but I would like to compliment the crisis policy and also the opposition's listening ear. I agree with the Minister that it is a large package, that flex workers are better protected, that the arrangements have been extended. He is also willing to look at the extension of the packages in mid-January, following Asscher. The dismissal penalty has remained, education... So they're just listening. I think it is also politically and economically sensible. Well, there's one thing I'm really worried about, and that's that since Monday, the whole culture has been locked up again. The sports clubs, also the local sports clubs, are locked again. The budget was made to prevent the second wave. A few weeks ago we got the Millions note and this wasn't in it yet. My fear is about the catering industry, the sports clubs, the culture and also the municipalities, to be honest. We now also see in the newspaper the number of unemployed, the redundancies. That is what the municipalities that had already had a hard time get for the choices. My fear is that these four groups need more than is stated in the Millions Note. Is the Minister also prepared to look into that and not suspend it until a few months from now? If you're a museum or a small theater now, everyone's wondering if he's going bankrupt and if it's gonna stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u94	I need to give a nuanced answer. I would not think it wise to say immediately, on the basis of what has been announced for three weeks, that specific sectors need additional money in all cases in advance. I would hope that Mr Nijboer would agree with me. Sports clubs are another story, but I really believe that we have made an overinvestment in culture. We have not tried to sit in front of a dime in the front row; we have put in very substantial money. In addition, a number of exceptions have been made in the Monday package for culture, for the larger cultural institutions. I wouldn't say bluntly right now, when we don't even know what it looks like in three weeks' time, that we're already putting a few people in front of the line. If you're not careful, that's going to lead to some kind of blimp-over in society in the sense of: if you already have a problem now and don't submit now, then maybe you won't get your turn later. That's one way. Then the other side. If this situation continues and new problems arise in specific categories, then we are really going to look at it seriously again. So that's what we're gonna do. By the way, I can imagine that the picture is more differentiated, that with a number of cultural institutions at this stage, things are getting better. But, yeah, I also see those sports clubs with all those good parents in those hoops. They may not even be allowed to get into those hoops for part of their lives. The cafeteria is closed, and a lot of those sports clubs do run on beer, croquettes and candy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u95	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u96	I agree with the Minister. For three weeks, everyone will survive, even in this crisis. Only, the problem is probably we won't be out in three weeks, that before you really control the virus, there will have to be extended just like the last time, that there will again be specific, regional or I know what needs to be done. And it is indeed different; one can deal better with these new measures than the other. But if I now see the interviews in the newspaper or on TV with catering entrepreneurs or cultural institutions that are completely in their pockets and hear from municipalities that are already totally on the ropes, then I think this deserves attention. I agree if it is not announced this week, but I think it would be very sensible for the Minister to say that he wants to look again at the four sectors I mentioned or perhaps others, if we have to extend again or if it is going to take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u97	I agree with Mr Nijboer's concern, but perhaps I can put one more perspective to that. If, for example, you look at the sports associations, then we did not come up with these arrangements until a few months before the summer. I myself would like to be careful, even after this three-month period, to see what you have to do head-on, because it is not usually so much the problem of these institutions that they will not be able to reach the end of the month. It's more that when they're dealing with a long-term problem, they need that money once. So I think that would be the temptation that we should also resist a little as a political one. You have to do what is necessary, and you also have to show the flexibility that Mr Nijboer is asking for, but let us try to do so with a certain calm and regularity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u98	I actually have the mirrored question of Mrs De Vries' question to the Minister. Until recently, this minister was the minister who got his attention from the House of Representatives because he had 16 billion per year more than he promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u99	Those were the days!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u100	Part of it came because this cabinet invests so much in public infrastructure that ministries didn't get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u101	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u102	Now that so much investment is being brought forward, is there not a risk that we will count our wealth, that we will think that we will contribute to the economy but that we will not even succeed, because we have a huge shortage of professionals and technicians and simply cannot get the money out of the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u103	I think the honest answer is that we can't really see that yet. Just clapping out of the school about the conversations I have myself with contractors and entrepreneurs. I remember from just before the summer when many people who are working as contractors said: the order book.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Some of those people I have spoken to again and they say: that's actually going quite well for a while. The paradox of this could be that it would create tension in Mr Bruins' direction, namely that there would then be room for many of the things that we want to do at a later date. Quite frankly, if that were the case, that would be a good problem to have. Because then, apparently, the activity in the economy and in society is such that there is some delay in those projects which the government still wants, and which the government wanted to do to stimulate that economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u104	Yeah, but what it also confirms at the same time is that we have a huge shortage of technicians both in low and high-class economics, because we need to build more houses, we need to strengthen Groningen. The professionals can't really be dragged around. So at least I am very pleased that the cabinet is taking serious steps when it comes to learning places and investing in technical professionals. I think we should keep thinking that way, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u105	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u106	That was your comment, then a question. Mr. Edgar Mulder, at the next microphone. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister just received a compliment from Mr Nijboer on the listening ear. Building on that, in preparation for the second term and also listening to the VVD about the austerities on the NOW and to the comments of SP and GroenLinks on the partner test, I would like to ask whether it is true that if we reverse those austerities for the fourth quarter, which costs less than 1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u108	I really should make the exact numbers. For the record, the TVL in particular has been expanded. There is the amount per month that an entrepreneur can get. What is complicated about this sum, I would add to Mr Mulder's remarks, is that a very rough assessment has been made of these arrangements in the books of finance. We have said in advance that it may well be that you have a lot of it left, but that it may also be that much more goes on. Take the NOW. In the first phase, I believe it cost 10 billion, those first three months. That's about what was budgeted before. In that second phase, there is much left of it, because it was just better with the economy and better with the entrepreneurs. So it's still pretty hard to make the sum of whether or not the austerity. I just really want to take the image with force if there would be some kind of half package left from October 1st. Reality is really different. The reality is that the Netherlands is the frontrunner, together with Germany, in how massive the packages we have deployed are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u109	I would like to know whether it is true that if we lift that austerity for the fourth quarter, it will be less than a billion. Maybe the Minister can talk to you in a minute. He's got some math help in the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u110	I won't do it to the Secretary of State, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u111	If it is possible, I hope to get an answer to that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u112	I will. But I would like to remind you once again that you have the like-for-like equation in Dutch for a while, but it really is going to be a big difference in how many entrepreneurs are going to use it. I would really like to keep up, and I invite Mr Mulder to think seriously about it, because it is really the question of whether it will help to move into it now. I am more in line with a number of speakers and also with Mr Nijboer's invitation. Do you now have the flexibility, not ad hoc but if that proves necessary in a few weeks or months, to make another choice? Furthermore, I think the package is really extremely robust. I will return to the sum in second term. Mr. Chairman. Then I will be in regular spending and I will include the Growth Fund. Mrs De Vries rightly asked about the lessons of Corona and the additional opinion of the NZa.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u113	Before you continue, I see Mrs Aukje de Vries walking to the interrupting microphone. Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u114	I'm getting a little uncomfortable anyway. I believe that yesterday, with this motion, it was agreed that the cabinet should remain in talks with the business community. I think that the Minister is a little too easy to ignore the additional problems that are currently being put in the hospitality sector, for example. I am happy that the cabinet is involved in these talks, but with an open attitude of: what would possibly be needed outside the package? I would like to say this without saying anything about the packages that are now in place, because they are indeed substantial packages, but I would consider the open attitude in the discussions with business organisations, particularly in those sectors that are so badly affected by the additional measures that have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u115	I don't quite see that there's light in there. If Mrs De Vries would like to emphasise the catering industry one more time, I can understand that in itself, but those packages are substantial. The Prime Minister didn't give "judge chamber" for nothing yesterday. We said we'd keep looking at that with an open eye. The other side is next. Now to say straight away that adjustments are needed, shows very little confidence in the homework you have done yourself. It's in between, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u116	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u117	Mr. Chairman. I was at the regular expenses and the fund and also with Mrs De Vries. He asked about the lessons. A first "lessons learned" letter was issued on 1 January. Interestingly, the corona crisis has accelerated several innovations, such as remote care and e-health. The effectiveness of care can of course be greatly improved if the right care is delivered in the right place. As regards the NZa's opinion, an opinion will be delivered to the Minister for Medical Care in mid-October, which will deal with the framework conditions to encourage appropriate care in practice. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked about real investment in education, as he called it. The cabinet believes that a considerable amount of additional money has also been spent on education, already with the government agreement, an amount which I believe started with 1.5 or 1.6 and which has risen to 1.9 or 1.95. A few more times, partly for issues such as teacher shortages and partly to compensate OCW for student numbers. Mr Alkaya asked about the housing market and how to deal with the problems there. Mr Nijboer asked for anti-cyclical investment. We have the impression that we are also doing a number of things in the area of housing in the shorter term. You want to build more. Part of that also needs to be realized by perseverance. In part, you will come across exactly the problem that Mr Bruins just outlined: you may want it tomorrow, but it just won't be finished tomorrow. That is exactly what the cabinet's inspiration comes from to do with the landlord's tax and to make extra money available. We also see that the housing market is a hugely important pillar of economic growth. I also agree with Mr Nijboer, it is quite true that a reduction in charges, even when it comes to a subject such as the landlord levy, almost always leads to something of economic activity. You can only ask the question: how much is the most effective in which domain? Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it is right to say the following to the various speakers. If you ask experts and also the Ministry of the Interior what is effective and how you take care of that perseverance power, they put a great deal of effort on that in the "State Development Company'. It is about the ability to identify locations and to untangle gordian knots, as we have seen at Valkenburg, for example. In addition, corporations have applied for a tax reduction for the construction of 150 000 homes and projects are prevented by extending deadlines. The cabinet believes that this is a very substantial package. Some will say: it may be too little; should it not be anymore? Frankly, I think this really helps in the short term. I do agree with Mr Nijboer and others who have said: in the long term you will have to build much more in the Netherlands. I'm inclined to agree with that. Ultimately, the problem in the Dutch housing market is really a supply problem. There are just too few houses, at least in a lot of places in the country. Unfortunately, in other places in the country, you have to deal with shrinkage. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked about building savings. The thought behind that is that it remains difficult for young adults to save enough, something you would actually like. We are partly trying to address this problem through the start-up exemption in the transfer tax. The Secretary of State will be able to say more about this later if he so wishes. This reduces the need for savings for the purchase of a property. It is sensible and important that we also give this group a chance on the housing market, but I think the real solution is just to build more and therefore more homes. What I would like to say to Mr Slootweg is that we should deal specifically with this problem of building savings. It's a discussion that's been going on for a while. Things are being done in Germany, but in the Netherlands it is not quite clear that this can be a solution, also given the problem of mortgage interest rates. I'd love to dedicate a letter to it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to this block of expenditure with the Growth Fund. I would hope that we will have another separate debate on this, but let me say a few things about it now. A lot of questions have been asked about it. Maybe one more time at a time, the why. Mr Stoffer and a number of others asked very strongly about this. It is good to recall that the Netherlands had the most competitive economy in Europe before corona according to the WEF. In many of those states we got off pretty well in the here and now. This will enable us to finance a lot of this expenditure, to keep the burden that we may experience as high, and to put public finances in order. This economic growth, this dynamic in the Dutch economy, has all managed to achieve this. But there are also a few clouds on the horizon. First of all, we'll all see it. I think we'll all see the ageing of the population. It just means we're gonna have fewer people at work, but more people to take care of. That's really going to change society. In addition, we all see that nobody knows exactly how the development of artificial intelligence will go. But it has the ability to change society and how we work, whether it is cash registers that are no longer manned, whether it is the work of the radiologist who has become largely redundant because a machine that can read pictures better than a person who has studied for ten years, and so there are all kinds of other applications. So we think that the labour market is going to change dramatically. Moreover, competitiveness from abroad is increasing. You can see that much of the gap that the Netherlands now has is being walked in by other countries. So you know there's an assignment for the future in the longer term. I think Mr Stoffer agreed with that. In addition, experts from the Netherlands and abroad have been saying to the Netherlands for years: you invest significantly in innovation, research and development, knowledge development and to a lesser extent in infrastructure. The Netherlands is simply doing too little on the whole domain with things that can be engines for future economic growth. That is what the European Commission says, as the International Monetary Fund says, and that is what all kinds of professors at home and abroad say. I think we should take that seriously and address it. That's why we're gonna do this. Then the targets. It is crystal clear that we are pursuing multiple goals at the same time. To those who are concerned that it is only about GDP, I would like to say: no, it is definitely not just GDP. The other way around, you want it to produce economic activity and productivity gains. If that is not the case, it may feel good, but it will not produce what you are looking for so hard in the long term. So what's being looked at? It must all fit into the context of the Paris Climate Agreement. Yes, we are talking about GDP. But we are also concerned with employment, viability and, of course, issues such as biodiversity and basic security. Some speakers rightly pointed out that nothing would be done that would be completely anathematic with political consensus or broader cabinet policy. That seems perfectly logical to me. We will look not only at the costs and benefits and the social impacts in the present and future, but also at the longer term. One of the examples that Wiebes often gives is: even if you could calculate that a new petrochemical cluster is a good idea from a financial and economic point of view, you would not put that down, because that is about yesterday's economy and not about today's or tomorrow's. Once again, I think we need to put this on paper once more. I hope that I can reassure Mr Nijboer and a few others that we are therefore defining it more broadly than just GDP, while at the same time GDP is an important part of it. Mr Snels specifically asked about the safeguards and said that they should not be at the expense of the other standards. I just turned that in. In addition, the cabinet comes with a response to the motion tabled by GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. I have grasped Mr Bruins in such a way that he said: I welcome the fact that the SMEA are part of the scope. I think he was okay with that. He asked what else is attached to that. I think I have already mentioned a few things. Moreover, it is of course very obvious to include the adaptation of SMEs, which are thus brought to a certain extent to the time. Let me refer you to the debate we had earlier. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the review committee. Mr Stoffer rightly raised the question of how to ensure that it remains independent. Let me be very honest about that. Our quest has been how to create something that really does things that the experts say: the Netherlands, do more about it, otherwise you will lose a chance for the next generation. You want that taken care of. Next, the cabinet insists that this is subject to the budget right of the Chamber. At the same time, you want to see how it ended earlier with the FES, and also see the sounds that many in your Chamber have made about it, that it is not part of the 100% political cow trade that there is. In the end, it is mainly about 'I actually want something for that region, or I actually want sister or something'. With this, there is a huge risk that the scope will be watered down and that you will eventually do things that meet political wishes, while losing sight of the broader goal of an investment that the next generation should benefit from. And so that's what you do, if you put it together for a moment, with about 1% of the total rich budget, which is about 300 billion. This is about 3 to 4 billion a year. By the way, Mr Nijboer was right yesterday to point out the difference in the cash rhythm and the five times 4 billion that there is. So what's the role of that committee? We ourselves thought that you would have to agree with the Chamber on a number of criteria. That is actually the debate that we already have today, but which I would like to have even wider with the Chamber, because it is a very important point and I would also like many parties to say: that is about it, because this is a sensible investment in our future. The second is that, of course, on the front, we will simply ask the Chamber for permission in respect of the money. That's where budget law comes in. Then you have to think about how to come up with these sensible plans. We have said that these plans can be submitted by many parties. Let me give you an example of the great success of Eindhoven, where the combination of local government, a university, a large company and small businesses has built something that is admired worldwide over the past two decades. I'm not going to say too much about the examples, but you could imagine trying to build something like that again. Then one of these consortiums comes up with a plan. Then honesty dictates that I may eventually have a political view on this, but that I cannot really judge that plan properly. For that there are criteria at the front. Then there is the committee, which has much more expertise and which also has the opportunity to call in other expertise, which it does not have, in the areas of photonics, robotics or artificial intelligence to reach judgment. Then the committee gives an opinion to the cabinet. She could also say: this plan is going a long way in the right direction, but it is not quite yet. Then such a plan can be modified. Then the plan comes to the cabinet when the committee would say yes. In theory, the cabinet can say no, but if the cabinet says no twice, the committee will probably say, "Save it. We really took a good look at it. If it falls within the scope and the cabinet doesn't want to do it, why are we actually sitting here?" If the committee says no, then the cabinet is not going to say yes. The committee then says that this clearly does not meet the long-term standard and what we want to achieve for the next generation. It then makes sense, especially when it comes to infrastructure, that it is simply added to the regular budget. Of course, the cabinet always has to justify itself in the Chamber afterwards. The proposal that the cabinet wants to make is that we should simply be accountable for the projects. I am making a comparison here, which I believe is going to end, but not entirely with the way in which we do it in the case of state participations. I have at least once a year to answer for the policy of state participation. If the Chamber wants to ask me about anything in the meantime, the Chamber will. The Chamber does the same to the trade ministers. But specific investment decisions, so to speak, an investment at Schiphol Airport in terminal X or Y... not only do not pass my office, the Chamber is not in the front seat of such decisions either. That is ultimately something that is mandated to, in this case, the board of Schiphol. That's how we try to follow that route. I would also like to discuss this route with the Chamber. I really think we have done it in a balanced way, but this is something so important that I would like us to do more than just pull together 76 seats once and 38 seats once. Mr Azarkan had a question about the diversity of the Committee of Inquiry. I do not see Mr Azarkan sitting in the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u118	He's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u119	He's coming in now. I very much agree with him that this is always an important task for the cabinet. We have really tried that, looking at the expertise and also looking at the male-female relationship. I think that we have succeeded in doing so. By the way, I immediately admit that diversity is always a puzzle, sometimes almost without an end. You're seriously looking at all the appointments you're trying to make as a government. I think it worked out well here. But if Mr Azarkan says that it could have done even better, I say that this is almost always the case. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nijboer asked about the longer period. That question is actually about the difference between the cash rhythm and when you can commit the money. There is indeed a difference in the rise. Perhaps I could add two more sentences to that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u121	Let me give you a random example. Here's what I can imagine. Suppose a number of parties come up with a plan for nanotechnology: 100 million every year for ten years. Then it is money that you allocate in the first year, but that ultimately is spent in the cash rhythm potential at other times. Mr. Chairman. I have not mentioned each speaker individually, but I have mentioned most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u122	No, but MPs are able to indicate which questions have or have not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u123	I recognize that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u124	First Mr Nijboer, then Mr Krol and Mr Van Raan. And then Mr Alkaya and Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr President, we are getting along well. We're already in block four. I have called the Growth Fund an old recipe for the old economy, with the growth of gross domestic product as a holy grail. Despite the fact that the PvdA is in favour of an investment fund, we have two fundamental problems with it. Actually, I hear them quite wide in the Chamber, and from the coalition, they come back. First of all, the objective. Is the objective really GDP growth, or broad prosperity? The Minister just said: it's really wider. But is he going to change that in the objective? Because it really is a very hard touch, also towards that committee that is getting a very heavy role in the current proposal. So is it going to be adjusted, from GDP to broad prosperity? That's my first question. The second question concerns budget law. As far as I am concerned, the Minister is too easy to waltz over the role of the Chamber. The cabinet is asking for 20 billion in support of this Chamber, without us knowing what will happen to it. I really do care if that money is ultimately being spent on a new airport that is great for GDP growth, education, or public transport. I do not have any insight into this, and no Member of Parliament could ever agree to it in advance, even if there is such a wise committee in between. It's about politics; it can't be that they don't change it. Is the Minister prepared to submit this, even if the cabinet has finally made a choice, to the Chamber for approval?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u126	First of all, let me say something about that first point. Of course, I would like to say that again: what about the various things that the committee has to assess and what are the criteria? I myself think it is extremely important to keep GDP very clearly in this regard. At the same time, I agree with everyone who says: that is not blissful. I also think that there is another point that has not yet been highlighted in the debate. Almost everything you consume has added value to GDP. So every edition, including every consumer edition, obviously does something in our economy. The art is to bet here, as good and as evil as possible, on those things that lead to more economic growth and more economic activity. I say this from the thought that this stronger economy will continue to be able to continue to pay for the welfare state that we all want. There are a lot more criteria; they have also been mentioned. If that is unclear, then I would very much like to look at it again and share it with the Chamber again. The idea that it would be GDP-only is apparently the impression that has arisen in some cases, but that is really not how the cabinet sees it. However, we believe that things which might well be placed in the category of 'wide prosperity', but which simply do not involve sufficient economic activity, should still be part of another discussion. I think that's fair to say, too. That was the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u127	Oh, there's another one coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u128	Then there's the point about the routing. There's everything to talk about. This is a debate, and my expectation is that we will have another separate debate on it. We need to unite the next two difficult things. You really need to make sure you do those things that are smart in the long run. In any case, I would like to say the following. I think that others can help very strongly, by making the right choices. On the other hand, however, I would like to do it in such a way that the cabinet has to be accountable here in the Chamber. Frankly, I think that we are really going a long way in the right direction with the combination that we have now: the budget right is on the front, the accountability comes afterwards and we make all those things that are still coming transparent. I would also like to continue this debate with Mr Nijboer. We do not say that there is no need for any adjustment under any circumstances. But I hope that I will be able to bring Mr Nijboer to an end in the logic that if you make it all part of the normal political game, you will be at the very risk of going in that FES direction. There, of course, that went wrong. This was about a much smaller size, but in the end the regular budget problems were solved. After several successful years at the beginning, it was finally declared dead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u129	That first discussion on broad prosperity versus GDP will come to our attention. I really think it is a fundamental difference whether you rely on broad prosperity or economic growth. That's not a big deal. The second point is really fundamental. The first, too, but the second as well, and I would like to ask you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mr Van Raan almost kicked my ass, Mr President. The first point is very fundamental, but so is the second. Politics is about making choices, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u131	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u132	That's about how you see society before you, isn't it? Then what's the biggest need right now, given the budget you have? Is that education or housing? Or do we consider planes or roads more important? Where are these things going? Are they in the Randstad or in the region? Even in public transport, which I strongly support, I am against some lines. I can tell you that already. Some ideas are really stupid to me. That's what politics is about. That's what the Chamber's supposed to be about, isn't it? Surely we in the Chamber can't outsource that to a committee or a cabinet? I would like to make that clear in advance: if the cabinet insists on 20 billion, but is only responsible afterwards for the railway lines that are there and the airports that have been stimulated elsewhere, then I will simply vote against it. I'm not gonna give you that pass, even though I'm for more investment. This House's budget right must really be enshrined in the cabinet's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u133	I have a few comments to make. Let me start with that last point. Mr Nijboer has, given his first term, also seen that you are already on another route in terms of infrastructure, because you are simply interfering in public space. This is different from an investment in, for example, knowledge development. You could say there's an extra lock on the door. Of course, I very much agree with Mr Nijboer that politics is about making choices. At the same time, politics does make some of the choices that are made to others, whether at all or in part. Yeah, that goes in front. It is then accountable to the back. But see how much freedom we have laid down, for example, in schools. See how in the case of state participations, most of the investment decisions never get on my plate, let alone get here to the Chamber. This is the example that Wiebes often gives of how this is done at the SDE. I heard Mr Nijboer correctly. I would, of course, like to repeat the conversation on that point. Only, possibly there is really a lasting difference of insight, so to speak, as to whether you think you should always throw everything into one big pile. Why? Because the cabinet believes in principle that part of what we do here and now is just really meant for the longer term. Of course, Mr Nijboer is right that you can weigh short-term concerns against each other, but you should actually say: let's not do it for the long term; let's just take it all together in the regular government budget. The cabinet thought of that: that is not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u134	I almost listened to the Minister breathless. When he says, "I want to make sure that things go well in the long run," I totally agree with him. But in the defence of the Growth Fund he says: The Netherlands is in various lists very good, very neat, at the top, but not when it comes to R&D. That is what he is using in particular to defend this Growth Fund. Then I think, "Why aren't we high on that list?" So what could the Growth Fund improve on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u135	It's wider than that. That R&D discussion is more layered, by the way. I see Mr Krol has a piece of paper on him. It could just be said that in the Netherlands there is a difference between government and business R&D expenditure. You can see that business in particular is lagging behind. That would probably have been his next interruption. By the way, that says a lot about the type of economy we have. With the type of economy we have, you don't automatically get high in those R&D lists. The fundamental point is, of course, greater. You can also say that they're all wrong. Mr Nijboer is very critical of a few other things, but I do not think that the point of principle is being challenged. What is the fundamental point regarding the why? That is what experts from the Netherlands and abroad have been saying for many years, perhaps decades, that this country is underinvesting significantly in knowledge development, innovation, research and development and to a lesser extent in physical infrastructure. Those are the things that are important if you still want enough money in the future to keep your welfare state going. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u136	But then I wonder: why this complicated construction? It's a bit of a leap in the dark after all. Why don't we say that we're going to invest it specifically in better education or a top university, so that we can get back on top of that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u137	The cabinet just wants to en-and. We invest very heavily in society and here and now. There is also no one who fights that more needs to be done and that you would want to have even better results in all kinds of areas, ranging from regular education to street safety to all kinds of areas where the Netherlands is not always doing badly. The fact that this is important is not really under discussion. The approach route at this point is right that we keep doing the other thing. This fund is therefore not at the expense of the regular budget either. We're not trying to knock out 20 billion before we invest it. No, we say: we continue with the regular budget, but we also want to devote money specifically to this goal, because we think that it is really a gap for the Netherlands, a weakness in the long-term story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u138	Mr Krol, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u139	In any case, I am pleased that we agree that education would be a very important factor...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u140	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u141	... to get the Netherlands at the top of those lists in the future. But I still have serious doubts about giving out a right of the Two Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u142	But that's really not what we're doing. I'd like to keep that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u143	Mr Van Raan and then Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u144	I would like to make two points. The first point is as follows. It is said that the reports indicate that the development of knowledge is lagging behind. I have a very specific question first. If you look at the first criterion, as the Minister also said, the plans have to comply with the Paris Treaty, then you actually see that the Dutch translation of the Paris Agreement is "too little', in that sense a literal translation of the knowledge deficit which apparently prevails. Is the Minister prepared to devote at least part of the Growth Fund to a better translation of what is contained in the Paris Convention? That's question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u145	If that were the case, I'd think we'd have to solve that problem by the regular route. By the way, however, I have said so about all the plans that have been suggested before, in newspapers, in television programmes and here in the Chamber............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are talking here about the fundamental importance of a number of places where more needs to be done. But whether it should be project A on nanotechnology or project B on artificial intelligence, we are not sufficiently equipped for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u146	In response to this: it seems that this is not possible via the regular route. The reports clearly show that the translation of Dutch policy towards the Paris agreements does not lead to the desired results. Hence the question. Anyway, I heard what the minister said. The second question is about the Growth Fund: focused on the earning model of. Could this also be used for a number of necessary shrinkage scenarios that need to be implemented, so when we talk about livestock and aviation? There must be a transition to very different activities. Is that a possibility? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u147	Given the political background to this question, I have some natural reservations, because it is really meant for something else. It is good to stress that it is also meant for transitions. Wiebes has made that point many times. We are facing all kinds of transition challenges, and it is to be expected that the fund could play a very important role in this. Only, in my view, is the question that lies behind Mr Van Raan's question: can we perhaps achieve the halving or lifting of the livestock from this fund, because that is what I, Van Raan, think is a very good investment. Well, we don't share that enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u148	I think Mr Van Raan knew that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u149	I've had that with Mr. Van Raan before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u150	I agree entirely with Mr Nijboer that this is about democratic decisions, about decisions that we should take as elected representatives of the people, so that we can decide in advance where the tax money goes. Let me give you an example, to which I would ask the Minister to respond. What if we're talking about investments in energy development? We have a very extensive discussion about this: should you invest in wind energy on land, in wind energy at sea or in nuclear energy? Does the Minister expect us to lay down such criteria in advance on every subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u151	Still, one more time, perhaps an abundance. I'm a democrat at heart. That goes for the whole cabinet. I really want to take away the misunderstanding that the Chamber wouldn't be about this. On day -1 of the debate or -10 of the debate, we are already talking about it here, and rightly so. Budget law is just coming up front. If the Chamber were to say 'nothing of that', it would be a pity of all time and effort to explain to an economist: Mr. Hoekstra, that was already at no cost, but then it will not happen. In addition, we are going to be accountable to the assembly line at the back. I really think... Once again, I just pointed out to Mr Nijboer that the cabinet is always willing to engage in dialogue on these things. It wants to see if we can generate wider political enthusiasm for something that is very fundamental. But I really think that is guaranteed in a good way already. With regard to energy: what you naturally want to avoid... That is not at all the reason, but well, that is what Mr Alkaya is doing now. He takes an extreme example and then goes on to see how that relates to this. This is not about windmills or nuclear power, of course, but about the things we have always mentioned. What I want to stay away from, and I hope that Mr Alkaya agrees with me too, is a discussion on whether the project A should be about artificial intelligence or project B on nanotechnology. And why not project C on nanotechnology or project D on knowledge development? I don't think that's wise. I believe that this is precisely up to that committee and that is what the criteria are as we have established them for. As a cabinet, we have great confidence that this committee is really careful and sensible about this. I would also like to draw your attention to the very broad expertise and the eighteen-karat composition of the people who are in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u152	The Minister, of course, makes it easy for himself to talk about projects A, B and C. But of course it becomes difficult when you are talking about nuclear energy or wind energy. I can mention a number of other examples. That fund should also be about infrastructure. Are we going to invest more in train connections or in aviation? These are all kinds of discussions that we talk about endlessly in this Chamber, because there are differences of opinion in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u153	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u154	So I ask the Minister: if soon it becomes clear that his plan will go ahead, he will come back here and say "we have invested all the money in nuclear energy," should we send him away? Is that then the only means we have, a motion of censure afterwards? That's not enough, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u155	No, but I'm going to go into this example anyway. The things that are so controversial politically and on which things have always been agreed in governmental agreements will never reach the first gateway. In addition, there is something else which Mr Alkaya will have read. Take the issues that are indeed the subject of a lot of discussion and belong to the regular budget. They are therefore part of the regular budget, because there are indeed very different views on part of the physical infrastructure. Take the trail or the air. That is a debate that takes place there. Wiebes has repeatedly stressed that this is not about regular expenses to the regular business. It's about the transition call, about places where you're left behind with your investments. That image is perhaps somewhat clouded, because many have thought: I am about to submit my specific project to that committee. That's their right, but a lot of those people will come home from a cold carnival.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr Alkaya, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u157	Finally, Mr President. I don't know if this plan is well thought out, because it does include research. Research into, for example, more sustainable energy sources that can be used in transport can be covered in the future, I suppose. Then I assume that there is also talk about what we are going to use it for: for aviation or for trucks? These are typical things that we are talking about here. These are political issues, which I want to say not only afterwards but also in advance. If the Minister does not listen to the Court of Auditors, to the Council of State or to us, then he makes such a growth fund, which we all support in principle, difficult. It seems as if there is no majority in favour of this now, while we are all in favour of more investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u158	Let me mention the bright side: Mr Alkaya clearly supports not only the reasons, but also the growth fund at all. I'll take that down as a win. I would also like to remind you that the cabinet has taken part of the criticism of the Council of State, among others, into account in the documents. As I said earlier, the cabinet is quite ready to discuss this point, which is, of course, fundamental by definition. The other side is that the choice not to send one hundred percent in front of everything, not even as a cabinet, is a conscious choice. I would like to remind you once again that it is not atypical. It's not like that's never gonna happen anymore. We need to realize that. Look at the state participations, at the SDE and at a large number of other files.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr Stoffer and then Mr Azarkan. Not anymore? No? Well? Then Mr Snelter and then Mr Snels. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u160	When I hear the Minister like that, he is looking forward to an extensive debate on this Growth Fund. I believe the same applies to the opposition, but the coalition blocked it a few weeks ago. I'm looking back a little bit: don't block it at the next application, because I think that's very important. To take this with each other in such a short space of time... I don't think that's gonna be him if you hear everything. Let me be clear about this, too. Mr Nijboer says that the money should not go to aviation. Well, so do I. With this fund I am thinking, for example, of a hyperloop network, to relieve all of Utrecht Central and everything around it, or of a hydrogen network to allow cars to run on hydrogen. There are many more ideas, and those ideas must come from the market. Some of them are already there, and this fund could be a driver. So I see plenty of opportunities. However, that is not what my question is about, because that is for the more extensive debate. My question concerns the criticism which the Minister has just referred to, from the General Court of Auditors and the Council of State, which focuses on the speed with which this is going through the Chamber, and in particular on the intention to submit a so-called non-departmental budget. Why was it chosen and why did it have to be so fast? Why doesn't there just be a budget fund? After all, it is about things in the longer term. Why can't we take a little more time so that we can weigh that up in the Chamber? I would now like the answer to that. The rest will be in the debate that we are going to have on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u161	The Chamber is, of course, about its own order of service. That was not the brief part of the debate we had on this subject, nor was it. I believe that we have an hour on the Growth Fund. I think it's fundamental myself. So the only thing I have tried to say is at least the great willingness of the cabinet to talk about it more broadly. Moreover, I fully agree with the kind of examples given by Mr Stoffer, regardless of the fact that I am not going to immediately tell them which proposals it should be and which not, because I do not want to be an arbitrator. But it's about exactly the kind of things he's touching, like nano and artificial intelligence and a number of other things. As far as speed is concerned, that is a very fair question. What is the history we carry with us? It is that there has been talk in the Chamber for a very long time about something like Invest-NL. Several Cabinets have been working on this. A legislative process was then launched, which took up to two and a half years, with a lot of grumpy about the lack of speed on the road, including in your Chamber. Our assessment was that there would be broader enthusiasm for such a fund than just within the cabinet. We have thought: if you set this up and see it in two and a half or maybe three years' time, isn't it a bit of a missed opportunity given the situation, the crisis, in which the country is right now? That has been the inspiration for the accelerated route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u162	If I understand correctly, the Minister sees only two routes. Either it happens very quickly or it's going to take two to three years. I wouldn't have to do that, but that's why the Minister, of course, chose the whole cabinet to do this? So those are actually the only alternatives that exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u163	Of course, we have also asked ourselves whether this second route can be speeded up. Suppose you settled it in six months, would you be willing to? We have taken the reality of Invest-NL as the starting point. So on this part, too, the cabinet certainly wants to engage in dialogue. I myself have always heard, not only in the cabinet and in the coalition parties but also in opposition parties, sounds in the direction of: when is it coming, and can we make investments out of it this year or else next year? From this I found that there is also a certain hunger to begin with, provided that this is done under sensible conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u164	I am going to Mr Azarkan, then to Mr Snelter and then to Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u165	Of course, the growth fund of the European Investment Bank, starting with EUR 20 billion, calls for a good discussion. For my party it is also guessing the motivation of the VVD, the CDA, Christian Union and D66 not to want to be too transparent about it. So we're gonna have to do a little bit with it today that we can do it at other times. When I was not a politician, I experienced that there is really a lot of money in the market to participate in projects. I said during the General Political Reviews that good projects are often lacking. Good projects, which sometimes render quietly and in which there is some degree of certainty. That amount doesn't have to be high at all. On the other hand, we have a government that will rebook 330 billion for spending next year. I'm really curious: what's in between what the market couldn't do and what the government can spend through the regular budget? What is so specific that it has to go through this fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u166	That is a very valid point. Those are really different things. I know exactly what Mr Azarkan is saying, because this is what you see. By the way, Invest-NL is partly a solution to this. That's just money you make available. That's a revolver fund. In the end, you hope to recover that money again. Then you can spend it on something else. This is a matter of expenditure that you will no longer be able to recoup in the direct sense. So you're doing an investment in artificial intelligence. I'll take this example of ten years of 100 million for the university conglomerate plus company XYZ. You're making that money available. With that money, salaries and research facilities are then paid, and, and, and... In a literal, direct sense, the money is gone after that. Then we're out of billions. In the indirect sense, this does, of course, generate employment and therefore tax revenues. Ultimately, it simply strengthens the economy and also public finances. In the indirect sense you get the money back, if done wisely. That is quite different from the point that Mr Azarkan has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u167	You could also see it as a kind of subsidy on behalf of society or an investment. It's what you call it. If you call it an investment fund and there are social returns, which then again through..., then that is also complicated from an economic perspective. The fund's money is just gone at some point and then comes back later through all kinds of indirect measures. Sometime in June, the General Court carried out a nice analysis of expenditure, large subsidies, to large companies. Lesson number one of the sixteen lessons in it is: map the public interest well. The public interest cannot only be that we want economic growth and that we want to increase earning capacity. I think that's too general. My question is how do you describe or frame for the group of people who make the trade-offs what the public interest is. 'Cause a hyperloop sounds interesting. And another will say: we have to artificial...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u168	I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u169	What exactly is this framework for action?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u170	That is what the letter really tried to clarify, and see also the debate on the interruption with Mr Nijboer. In addition to GDP, a number of criteria are really essential for the cabinet. So there are a number of things we are dealing with together. And of course, the domains were not chosen by chance. The cabinet has really listened carefully to the many dozens of experts who asked it: if you would like to realize this, what should you bet on? Without exception, these experts mention the areas of knowledge development, innovation, R&D and everything that has to do with it. And almost without exception they call infrastructure. By the way, they say one more thing, and that's good to remember. They say that in one category it is easier to measure than in the other category. For example, in the case of innovation, one cannot always estimate with the same precision what the GDP effect will be of one project versus the other project as in the case of infrastructure, for example. That's what they gave me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u171	Mr. Sneller. Oh, Mr. Azarkan. Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u172	Look, we know many examples of funds, of course, like the Juncker Fund. Depending on who is watching it, it is said that it has yielded very much or very little. Mr. Draghi was here in the Chamber. He said that the ECB's policy saved half a million jobs and that this and that were done. But that is disputed by others. So my question to the Minister is the other way around. How are we going to test, to some extent, what that has achieved? Can we, for example, suggest that we are also spending money on start-ups at the moment? 'Cause there are. Can you say to some extent what that's about, so you can test it afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u173	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u174	I believe that the evaluation of its success is a little further in the future. But I fully agree that this must be done with the right criteria. That is described in broad terms, but how we are going to do that, I would like to share with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u175	Mr Azarkan always has his credit card with three points in the Compatibility Act in his pocket, fortunately. I also had a question about the role of the Chamber. I'll split it up first to the research side and then to the infrastructure side. For the research side, the Minister says that he does not really want to choose between nanotechnology or a research project, or between projects A or B. Isn't that a bit of how the NOW is distributed? What differences does the Minister see between how this is going to go and how it is going to go with the NOW?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u176	I think that's right. I think it looks a lot like it. With infrastructure, of course, it is obvious to simply add it to the regular budget. In addition, you always have a broader discussion, which is just as separate from the investment about what it does in spatial planning. The cabinet felt that the Chamber would like to deal with this as well. So it's actually two different things. What happens in a lab with artificial intelligence doesn't really get in the way of anyone. But let me take Mr Stoffer's example of the hyperloop. He'll go through someone's backyard. In addition to an economic discussion, you also have a ro-discussion, also with local authorities. That's why we organized it that way. But I'm just tasting that we still have to retake this point and refine it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u177	Always keep refining. I think it makes sense for that research side to put it at a distance and get the experts to look at it. That's the analogy with the NWO. On infrastructure, I had the following question. The Minister referred to the first gate, when the trade ministers passed it on. It examines whether it fits within the framework of the ambition expressed by the cabinet. But if you're through that gate as a project, that doesn't mean you can take the last step. I think that's part of the care in the Chamber. Think of all kinds of spatial planning sequences or Randstadrail destination plans at local level. There are still many democratic aspects at the end of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u178	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u179	How does the Minister see the role of the Chamber in this? Is it only when transferring to the departmental budget, or is it a fuller test?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u180	In my opinion, the Chamber itself always takes a fuller test when it comes to infrastructure. I am not one of them, but I think that these debates are about more than just money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u181	Those keys are really full.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u182	That's what I was gonna say. In my view, this is perhaps a bit of a scare in those plans which are actively amended by detours and bus booths and so on. That is not immediately the route I would like to go on, but let me put it this way: the Chamber will not be unmistakable. Here's what I'm gonna do. For I think Mr Sneller is right: here too is part of Mr Nijboer's pain. Perhaps we are much more in agreement on that first domain, of artificial intelligence and that type of investment. I don't know, but at least I'd like to explore that. In any case, let me make a very specific comment on this point in writing. So let us take that back into the real debate, which I am very much looking forward to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u183	I'd like that. I don't know where Mr Stoffer got all that. I hear there's a call in the hall. Of course, that was a little faint. I think there will be a lot of debates. In the course of the work, a separate debate is then requested on the Growth Fund, after it was announced, while there will still be a budget debate, and then a budget treatment, and another budget treatment. That's why I call that a little faint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u184	We're not gonna have an arrangement here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u185	No, but I'm getting something thrown in my back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u186	I understand that this will be discussed between us later. Then you'll have to decide when such a debate will come or won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u187	The last question was about the two routes that Mr Stoffer outlined to set up. Under the Corona Act, there is now a discussion on the one hand, giving the Cabinet the opportunity to act quickly and, on the other hand, to submit something in parallel to ensure that it also becomes more stable and has a better foundation. Perhaps that is also something for the Minister to consider, also in view of the criticism of the Council of State. This way you can meet the desire for speed and at the same time you can see if you can put into effect that also that other foundation will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u188	A brief reaction. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u189	I think it is a good question to consider this. Let me do that briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u190	Is this necessary, Mr. Nijboer? I know about what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u191	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u192	Yes, a response to Mr Sneller. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u193	Yes, and a supplement to the Minister who addressed me twice. I've got two things, Mr. Chairman. A response to Mr Sneller. That debate was requested, but it was not supported. It'll be back on the schedule by Tuesday. Mr Stoffer was right about that. But for a while. If that's what the Minister's letter says... Of course, infrastructure is different from education. But also within education you can choose for the university or the MBO, or for the primary school or secondary education...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u194	Besides, Mr. Nijboer, you didn't have the floor at all. Mr Sneller had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u195	You gave me the floor. You knew what I was gonna say and now I'm gonna say something and you're gonna say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u196	A point of order, but you take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u197	I would like to point out to the Minister that there are also political choices and that they are also submitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u198	All right, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u199	I'll keep this behind the wall of my teeth, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u200	With this fund, we are also talking about an amendment to the Compatibility Act, which is included in the Finance budget. So it is right that we should take some time for this. I have a question about the objective criterion and budget law. We are going to talk about the objectives further. There's a motion on it. To illustrate the problem, I would like to say the following. It cannot be just about GDP growth, which is very dominant in the documents and the letters. In my view, the Minister still remembers the little debate this morning with Mr Sneller, which showed that knowledge and innovation are very difficult to come from the CPB models to calculate what that contributes to economic growth. That's one problem. The second problem, which is lower in the hierarchy, is the social cost-benefit analysis. I looked it up: parallel Kaagbaan Schiphol, widening A27 Amelisweerd, highways A6/A9, highway A4 Central Delfland. All positive from the social cost-benefit analysis. In the end, I think that is the problem we have. GroenLinks considers investing very important in the future, where we have really important transitions, but both the dominance of GDP figures and the gaps in SMEA do not give us any certainty as to how these projects are selected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u201	Of course, there is no such thing as 100% certainty. Suppose we do it exactly as the cabinet sees it, and I also indicated that we are prepared to discuss it. Then I'm sure things will be done that one is more enthusiastic about than the other. It's kind of part of life. However, I very much agree with Mr Snels's point of view. I have tried to address many of his other concerns where they were similar to the questions put by others, namely that one type of subject, such as innovation, is very different from that of infrastructure, for example. Part of that is in the letter, but some of it will have to be resolved by the committee. So you have to make a difference. See also why there are three categories and the infrastructure does not compete with the innovation part. So you need a different look. It is also likely that your willingness to risk innovation investment will be different from that of infrastructure investment. So I very much agree with Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u202	We will continue this discussion at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u203	How many debates do you have until March 17th?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u204	Are you asking me, Mr. Chairman, or the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u205	We are also getting the EZK budget and there are also legislative changes to it. It is an important debate, because it is about a lot of money. As the less says, the Chamber must give prior consent to this. I want to be more specific about this budget right. I get that from the committee. That committee is also there to ensure that you can make the most rational assessment of projects. The projects will then be submitted to the two fund managers, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of EZK, who decide whether it will be redirected to the budgets of, for example, Infrastructure, EZK or Education. At that time there is an occasional supplementary budget. Then you could say that the Chamber has a budget right on that. I think that's right. But the other route is that it does not go to other budgets, but remains on the non-departmental budget, and then the Chamber has no budget right. Then it is only the Minister of Finance and the Minister of EZK who decide on projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u206	Mr. Chairman. I will also take this point with me. I do not always want to refer to my previous answer, but here it is a bit resentful that Mr Snels is usually one of the first to interrupt the microphone and that I serve him generously. Now he's been sitting around for a long time and I think I've addressed a lot of things. I should like to take this particular point into account in the suggestion that Mr Sneller has just made of drawing out these routes once again. It is really important to note that we agree on the great importance of budgetary law and that by definition the Chamber should always have the last word in a democracy. At the moment when the Chamber orders a couple of ministers the next day to answer for what would threaten to happen without any kind of budget, no matter what minister, or in this case a couple of ministers. And if the Room wanted that, they'd be taking a shift home the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u207	That's right. Mr. Snels, don't underestimate your role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u208	No, Mr. Chairman, but this is really about budget law. If we vote at the end of the year, we have voted on 4 billion on the non-departmental budget, which may be spent by the cabinet. One route is that it comes back to the Chamber via the occasional budget; then we have budget rights. The other route is that we have given permission and that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of EZK decide on the projects. I trust this minister, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u209	But not the next one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u210	Not the next one, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u211	In a not too far past, we had Minister Heinsbroek. You don't know what the VVD's doing. Maybe Edgar Mulder will be Minister of Finance. Then the Chamber stands there, looks at it and has no means to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u212	No, I'm taking it up for the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u213	Mr President, I believe that Mr Snels is making himself and your Chamber much smaller than it needs to be. It is a great compliment to me that he is so expressing the rule of trust, which is implicit. If my successor is sitting in the room, it can of course wet his or her chest with what is expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u214	I expect the Minister to explain in the letter the difference between the non-departmental budget route and the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u215	I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u216	Then may I ask one short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u217	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u218	The Council of State states that it should always be with an institutional law and a budgetary fund. I understand the hurry, because we want to start quickly in view of the crisis that we are in, but is the Minister open to the possibility that there will also be a route, after this, later, to make an institutional law and create a budget fund? Does the Minister see that you do not have to choose between things, that we now choose for one thing, but perhaps later also for the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u219	This is a bit of an echo of Mr Sneller's remark. I believe that I have taken an open attitude towards this, but I would like to be able to weigh it separately. If-history doesn't exist, Mr. Chairman. But still, if I had arrived here with exactly the same plan, but then with an institution law à la Invest-NL, then the criticism would not have been out of the blue why the cabinet was so naive to think that this plan would be there before 2023 and whether the cabinet didn't realize what was going on in society. So there's another side to it. Mr. Chairman. Now the good news is I have two more folders. And I've seen you look at the clock, but they can be fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u220	Yes, because after lunch, I'd like to give space to both Secretary of State. I didn't limit the number of interruptions, but this afternoon I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u221	The Secretary of State was already concerned if there would be any interruptions left for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u222	Nothing. No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u223	Shall I try to do the last two blocks at some pace?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u224	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u225	The fifth block is about revenue and purchasing power. I've already said a few things about that. The Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief, will deal specifically with the things that lie with him. The most important thing to remember once again is that this was implicit in many of the remarks made by the members of your Chamber.... is that this really puts the purchasing power debate in perspective again. Because yes, there is a small purchasing power plus for almost all Dutch in that statistics. But also yes, if you are not in that statistics and are part of the so-called dynamic purchasing power in the negative sense and you lose your job, then it just looks extremely bleak. And that has a lot more influence than plus a half or plus three quarters. So I very much agree with everyone who referred to it. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Vries asked how we are going to prevent middle-incomes from being affected, for example, by rising healthcare premiums and energy bills. I agree with her that this is an important point of attention. That is precisely the reason why this cabinet has always kept a close eye on the reduction of charges, and that even in this budget there has been some reduction in charges. But that remains an assignment, also to the future. Mr Slootweg asked for further research into whether the costs of households with children have increased. It is of course true that there is a huge effect on all kinds of households of corona. The effect on income and then job loss is by far the largest, no matter what type of household you are talking about. Our perception so far is that this income decline of households is very limited, see also the purchasing power picture. The Nibud shows that respondents without children reported more often than respondents with children that they are more difficult to live by. The percentage for no children was 65% and children 35%. So it doesn't seem like parents with kids are getting in the way of corona. Mr Van Otterloo asked about the situation of pensioners. We have, of course, deliberately chosen to increase the old-age discount further in 2021. Here too, as I understood his question, you would of course like more. At the same time, the good news is that there is also a small plus in this picture for pensioners and that, fortunately, pensioners are not affected by what, of course, often affects workers, namely the so-called dynamic purchasing power, which can lead to a loss of employment for a worker and thus a very heavy blow to income. In this respect, the situation is really different for pensioners. They have the disadvantage that they are no longer able to develop additional earning capacity, but they have the advantage that they also have no job to lose and are therefore not explicitly affected in a large wave of unemployment. Mr Krol asked about the National Growth Fund and the general tax rebate. I think we have discussed the Growth Fund sufficiently. I would like to refer to the previous answers. This is the government's plan and the tax rebate, however important, we address in a different way. Then a few questions from Snels about the BIK, but I leave them to the Secretary of State. Mr Alkaya asked whether the cabinet would be mainly there for large companies. I'd really like to take that picture away. The reduction in the burden during this cabinet period has been almost exclusively knocked down by citizens and not by companies. On top of that, there has also been a substantial shift, which has reduced the burden of citizens more sharply compared to companies, even if you compare the state of the coalition agreement with the state of the crop in October 2020. Then Mr Van Otterloo asked for a so-called profit tax. I think that's something we know from the wartime. And Mr Alkaya asked whether more profitable companies could make an extra contribution after the crisis. Our tax system is, of course, already based on carrying capacity from A to Z. Not only do you by definition pay more in absolute terms if you earn more, but we also work with that disk system. That is in the Netherlands, I think, quite well balanced, both where business is concerned and certainly where citizens are concerned. So the cabinet doesn't intend to introduce some kind of extra income tax or an extra disk into the income tax now. That's what I had in block five, Mr. Chairman, and then I have a thin block six left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u226	Does it have anything to do with that, or is it just questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u227	Block six is varia and I think it can be speeded up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u228	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u229	You'll allow me to do that? Then I'll do it real fast. Mr Bruins asked, despite the conclusion of the negotiations in Europe, whether we wanted to continue to work on the importance of innovation. I very much agree with the substance of the matter, but I would remind him of the reality of the state of negotiations. Unless that box is completely opened again, this is something that we continue to consider important but which we do not immediately have an action perspective on. Mr Sneller asked if you could make use of reforms from the current Millions Note for the recovery fund, the RRF. The honest answer to that is that the exact rules are not yet known. The Commission is making these plans. You could imagine a situation in which, in so far as the Netherlands addresses the CSRs, the country-specific recommendations or country-specific recommendations, you could use them in the last Million Note, provided that the Commission proposals leave room for that. However, it is not yet entirely possible to assess whether this is actually possible. So I'd really like to get back to the Chamber on that. Mr Van Dijck asked why billions are being given abroad, while the Netherlands is not a rich country. We don't give away billions, but if you look at the various statistics, the Netherlands is not only rich when it comes to life's happiness, but also rich in the financial and economic sense. Mr Slootweg asked how I looked at the position of employees. My impression is that it is really secure in the case of state participations. The participations are also considered, see the corporate governance code, to ensure that employees' interests are explicitly guaranteed. See all the good statistics in the State participation reports. If corporate social responsibility and the position of employees are taken into account, it is quite frankly in the case of state participations. I'd like to continue the conversation about it, but I have the impression that things generally go really well there. Mr. Chairman. More quickly, I asked whether I would be prepared to examine a responsible form of administration and whether this could be done by means of legislation; that is at least how I understood him. This is primarily the responsibility of the Minister for Legal Protection. Moreover, this has already been secured in a number of ways, but pre-alabel consultations with the Minister for Legal Protection show that he has no objection to further investigating this in 2021. Mr. Chairman. Mr Slootweg asked whether negative interest rates could get in the way or help build up buffers. He is absolutely right: there are very different sides to it. That also explains why everyone who enters into a mortgage tomorrow is faced with a very different type of interest rate than the generation of our parents still paid. The other side is that putting money in the bank is virtually useless. That is how you see it, of course, in other social discussions: positive effects, see public finances, and negative aspects, see pensions. Then Slootweg asked about silver fleet savings. We have talked about this on a number of occasions, including in these debates. The Youth Savings Act was abolished in '91. I always find the idea very sympathetic, but without that law, I don't see much scope for action to change that. What I will do, however, is to inform him and your Chamber of the whole range of savings measures we are taking, including in cooperation with the change in money matters, with all the parties involved, because they are indeed being sent to it. Mr Azarkan asked, also in an echo of an earlier debate, for Islamic mortgages. I told him earlier that such mortgages can indeed be offered in the Netherlands, but that does not automatically mean that they are also covered by the HRA regime. That's not something I can fix. I think we have had an earlier exchange of views on this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels asked if the cabinet had the strategic priorities.... I am going to talk more and more quickly... with regard to ODA in order. My impression is yes. The cabinet has made very substantial money available, again recently, in response to Mr De Hoop Scheffer's report, but it has also agreed at the beginning that ODA is taking part in the state of the economy. So you can see that effect. Mr Slootweg asked about the Wagner Commission, with the task of bridging the tension between government-business and Randstad region. We very much recognise that polarisation should be avoided there. That has, of course, been exactly the inspiration behind the so-called Region Deals. With regard to possible polarisation, the ESC and SCP reports, which we follow very closely, do not show that this is now a polarisation that is further strengthening. Mr President, almost finally. Mr Van Otterloo asked about the Kifid and age discrimination. I know that statement, but I am not going to comment on statements made by the Kifid as a minister, so I don't think it makes any sense to comment on them either. It has not come forward, but I would like to thank those who have tabled a counter-budget very much for that. The presentation of a budget, with the word "against" in favour or not, is always a hell of a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u230	Thank you. I will go to Mr Slootweg, Mr Van Otterloo and Mrs Aukje de Vries. The questions must be really short and so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u231	Thank you for the many answers that have been given to me mainly in the block of varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u232	It sounds very disrespectful, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u233	I like it better than "other." My question is about the costs that families incur. Maybe things went a bit wrong in the speed, but the Nibud has indicated that a bit more costs are being incurred. Those additional costs came from the investigation in Germany. A family-specific scheme has been put in place there. I understand there's a commission capacity. Wouldn't it be an idea to see if there really are extra costs being incurred? Kids sit at home all the time. The normal school regime has fallen out for a while. This amounts to parents either because of less income or because of extra expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u234	Agreed. By the way, all the questions are equally nice to me. I do not think "varia" or "other" disqualifications, but I have noticed before that the appreciation of Members is different when they end up in those cubes. The Nibud figures indicate that people without children are more likely to have financial problems than people with children. Mr Vijlbrief will comment on the committee's capacity. I would point out, however, that the whole German system is much more generous at all when it comes to the position of families. The child schemes there are of a different order than the Dutch. Maybe I can park it at the Secretary of State through Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u235	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u236	I won't talk about childhood memories with Silver Fleet Spare. I leave that with Mr Slootweg. But I've been saddled with three cubes. My first block concerns the income position of older people. I have indicated that, in particular, the letter from the Minister for Social Affairs gives rise to additional concerns for the elderly. If a measure is taken to prevent the reduction of 1.3 million pensioners at the ABP and Health and Welfare, then reductions of 10% will be envisaged for the period thereafter. I haven't heard from the minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u237	Of course, we all recognize that pension discussion. On the one hand, it is true that we have the best pension system in the world, but on the other hand, any or real discounts are cause for concern or extremely annoying for the participants. However, the planning agency believes, especially with the measure and the changes that the cabinet has made, that older people can also count on a bonus. I say "plusy," because they're all very small plusy. We deliberately chose to do some extras there. Mr Van Otterloo will say that it is absolutely right, but we have also kept the AOW component in place in recent years through all kinds of crises, including indexation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u238	On the issue of tax discrimination between employment discount and old age discount, we return to the discussion with Secretary of State Vijlbrief. My second point is the tax on profits. We are concerned that these profits are leaking out to others in all kinds of ways, and not returning to the state treasury. That is where we need them so badly to pay out all these measures. That's the point. We see that dividend payments are increasing among the companies that benefit from this. The question is to what extent does that come back to the state treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u239	You're right. It is not for nothing that there are all kinds of conditions for all kinds of schemes, plus additional conditions for specific support; see the discussion about KLM. We do not intend to put together a very specific benefit scheme at the moment. A, because you don't know exactly what the rest of the film looks like; B, because the question is how to do it efficiently. It is therefore very obvious to stick to the normal tax system. I understand there's an honest question underneath. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u240	Finally, Mr. Van Otterloo. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u241	Sorry, Chairman. I've been saddled with three points that came right to the end. Apparently, that's my destiny. I asked more about the story about ABN AMRO and age discrimination. I have also asked who is guarding that the Constitution is maintained here. It is about age discrimination, and it is not resolved by saying that you can go to another bank. We are talking about age-based treatment, which adds that a bank believes that pension is not a certain income.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u242	For the sake of precision, Article 1 of the Constitution begins with the sentence that equal cases should be treated equally, for all who are in the Netherlands. That principle is right in our society. Next, it is stated in this case that the alleged age discrimination is not present. Everyone is, of course, open to any judge or to any point of contact, but this is the conclusion that has been drawn there. In a case I do not know and in which someone acted as an arbitrator, namely the Kifid, I do not think it is up to me to say that that is probably nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u243	I had asked a specific question about my story about the strong government and the implementing organisations. I'm afraid this minister wants to park that at the State Secretary's office, but I wouldn't find that too short. As far as I'm concerned, it's much wider than the IRS. It concerns several implementation organisations. The Millions note says that we are working on that. I think this is very important for trust in the government. I am therefore curious about the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u244	I can say a few words about that. Mrs De Vries did indeed ask for this in the first term. She's right. Yeah, it's a big deal about the IRS. The Secretary of State will say something about that. But it concerns us, and certainly her, of course also UWV, SVB and all other execution organizations. I think the conclusion is that we are asking a lot of excellent government organisations in themselves, but it is not always fast enough, understandable enough and good enough for the public there. That's just the reality, with how much passion there is in all these organizations working every day. That is why we have allocated a very large amount of extra money for this: 180 million for the Tax Office, and 100 million for UWV and SVB together. Mrs De Vries is right. She's announced this before here. This is all in anticipation of the Work on Implementation report. Koolmeis is the one who took this very well within the framework, but it is a broader problem that also needs a broader answer. We've taken the first step. That report needs to be presented, and the progress we want to share regularly with the Chamber. It is perfectly right that Mrs De Vries has drawn attention to this today, but also to many previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u245	Shortly, Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u246	I am curious, however, how we can involve people who make use of the services of the public authorities, who can be entrepreneurs, who can be citizens. Another major problem is the complexity of the regulation and, in any case, the regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u247	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u248	As far as I am concerned, this cannot be left outside that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u249	I very much agree with Mrs De Vries. There's a few layers in there. In all honesty, we, as politicians, do this to some extent to the implementing bodies. Look at the discussion about the surcharges. Apart from what has gone wrong, the executive is also faced with an extremely complex system. You may ask yourself afterwards, but afterwards it is always easy to ask whether it was wise to ask in the field of implementation. I very much agree with Mrs De Vries that this should be a low level. The report is still before the cabinet formation. It is precisely this report that is intended to benefit us. Then the final point. I don't know if that's in here, but I'll check with Mr Koolmees. I also share Mrs De Vries' remark that each of the implementing agencies is doing well to ask the citizens, on the contrary: what problems are you facing? No drawing table solution. So, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u250	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-4.u252	I shall suspend the sitting until 2:00 p.m. After that, both Secretary of State will speak.
