ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday. I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66 for his questions to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I warmly welcome in section K, on the influence of reports from the Justice and Security Inspectorate. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. "I try, say, not to send the ADR report to the House of Representatives either, that is what I agreed with Grapperhaus. Because everything you read there gives rise to new questions." Unfortunately, a quote from the top of the Ministry of Justice and Security to be deeply embarrassed! The AD reported this morning that Ministry officials have again influenced independent investigations, this time on the Justice and Security Inspectorate, which is right to exercise independent control over the department. I say "again" because if this is true, it brings in painful memories of the WODC affair. There it was about influencing investigations to get results that fit nicely in the direction of the rulers. That's amazing. There seems to be no end to the VVD corruption in this ministry, and now that virus also ignites this minister, because the Ministry seems to be having difficulty, to say the least, with critical reports. At the expense of everything, it is important to ensure that the rulers do not get in trouble, and that is worrying. Mr. Chairman. Next Thursday we will discuss a report from the inspection on the death of the girl Hümeyra. But what should you do as a Member of Parliament with such an inspection report when you have to ask yourself at the same time whether some of the criticism has not been massaged out of that report? D66 therefore has a number of questions to this Minister. Is the quote I started with correct? Did the Minister indeed want the ADR report not to go to the Chamber? And why haven't the other complaints been investigated? Is the Minister prepared to have an independent examination of whether and to what extent the Ministry has influenced the work of the inspection? And is the Minister also prepared to have the inspection investigations referred to in the article in the AD reviewed to determine whether and how these investigations have been adapted? Finally, Mr President. What does the Minister actually think of the distance the inspection has to his department? Is it wise that the inspection is literally in the department's house?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. At the end of 2017, two reports were made to the integrity coordinator of my ministry concerning the investigation of the Justice and Security Inspectorate. With regard to one of them, I ordered an investigation from the Audit Service, partly because the investigation was about to be published. I also reported this to your Chamber in the debate on the WODC in January 2018. I also said at the time that I would keep that investigation report on fire services. In the summer of 2018, I informed your Chamber by letter that the Audit Service had not identified any interference in the inspection report. With the improvement measures proposed by the Audit Service, which were also there, the inspection started immediately. This resulted in a first monitoring report of the Audit Service Rijk in December 2019 and that report can also be found on the site. I am talking to the newly appointed Inspector-General of the inspection about how he is going to carry forward the findings in that monitoring report. I will inform you by letter of progress. In that letter I will also discuss the handling of the other report received from the integrity coordinator on the so-called police scan street. The information I now have on this is that it has been decided not to provide a follow-up to that specific notification to the ADR, the Audit Service Reich, because it seems that, in this way, it covered the improvement mission to the inspection following the ADR report as well as the elements that were included in the other notification. They actually wanted to get to work as quickly as possible with this task of improvement. The quote 'I shall come back to Mr Groothuizen's questions' is something I do not recognize. I have not been to the meeting to which reference is made, but I have never given such an order, nor has it been discussed with me. Then about the investigation. The Audit Service had previously agreed with my ministry that the findings of that investigation should remain confidential, otherwise one could not talk to the person who wanted to speak about possible irregularities in complete confidentiality. So that eventually came from the person who was spoken to. I'd like to say something about that distance. That is one of the points I would like to discuss with the Inspector-General. Shouldn't we place such an inspection, like the WODC, geographically outside the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u5	I have to tell you, I can't quite follow the answers. There will be another letter, but whether or not the Minister is prepared to have the issues mentioned by the AD sorted out properly remains a little foggy for me. I hope he can go into that. Furthermore, I read that I read in the press response "The ADR has selected one issue. There were many other things, but those conclusions were so common that we didn't have to look at those other things anymore." To be honest, that seems to me to be a rather strange methodological position, even for a scientist. Let's just see what the article says. The article says that the inspection had to change its tone, that things had to be censored and that conclusions had to be deleted. This is not a single report, it is no less than seven people from the inspection who complain about the course of events separately. What does that say about the credibility of the JenV project changes? Then let me remind the Minister of the purpose of this: 'JenV believes it is important to be an open and transparent organisation, which appreciates the contradiction and in which points of view end up undiluted at the official and political summit'. That's exactly what doesn't happen. The bodies keep falling out of the closet. How is the Minister going to break this culture for once? How is he going to protect these new whistleblowers, these seven people? Because the last time we had a whistleblower, in the WODC case, she was completely right and got all the credit, but then she ended up under the tap. How is the Minister going to prevent that kind of repetition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u6	I don't think this is a body falling out of the closet, because in January 2018 I reported to your Chamber that there were two formal reports. I indicated at that time that an integrity review by the ADR would be set up for one notification. I mentioned the findings, conclusions and recommendations in the letter of summer 2018. The report was not sent in for the reason I have just indicated, namely to ensure the confidentiality of those who have spoken with the researchers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Minister does not answer the question of how he is going to ensure that these whistleblowers do not get into trouble, as he did before. Nor does the Minister answer the question of how he is going to change culture. But at the same time, let me confront him with his own statements. I looked at the debate from January 2018. The Minister is indeed referring to two complaints. Those are, apparently, those investigations that have not been shared with the Chamber at the end of the day. But the Minister says he wants full transparency there. Well, if we can establish something, unfortunately there is no question of full transparency. I think the Minister's story is foggy. I do understand that mistakes are being made in the Ministry, but I do not understand how stubbornly they are being refused to learn from those mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u9	I have added that quote from the debate. Just to be transparent, I reported that those two reports were there at the time. I have already said that in a letter in which I will comment on the outcome of the discussion with the inspector-general on the implementation of the issues arising from the monitoring report of the ADR of December 2018, I will also go into the progress of the other reporting. As far as I can tell, it happened as I just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u10	The SP really is done with lying top officials and lying politicians for whom the truth seems only an option. This is the umpteenth time we've been standing here. There's been another misdemeanor in the Department of Justice. How big is that cover-up over there? That's really a question that arises. My question to the Minister today is: how can it happen that the image of a ministry is more important than our security, that it is more important than the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u11	Security and justice - justice - I also understand the truth - are of course always at the forefront of that ministry. As far as I'm concerned, image doesn't have any influence on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u12	A second question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u13	This really seems like an easy answer. Or Minister Grapperhaus didn't read the newspaper himself this morning, which could be the case. But that shows a completely different picture. That is not only shocking, but also very dangerous. It would be a good thing for the Minister not only to acknowledge that today, but also to give the Chamber the answer we are entitled to. A second question I would like to ask the Minister is whether he was aware of all of this that we could read in the newspaper this morning. Or did it happen behind his back?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u14	I have already indicated that in January 2018 I passed on these two formal notifications. In that letter, I will return to the question of exactly what happened to the number of seven originally mentioned in the summer of 2017 and which I understood at least that this was also the subject of discussions with the trusted persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u15	This Department of Justice is fucked up. There's been a lie and a deception. Business is being swept under the carpet. We have already seen that with the influence of officials in my own fake process, and now we see it again at the inspection. We have seen that in asylum seekers' centres there were Muslim terrorists who had not only disgusting child pornography on their phones, but also images of torture. Nothing's been done with that. When the inspection wanted to write that down in a report, it was told that it was not allowed, and the Chamber was not informed. Why not? Because there were elections coming! It is a kind of legal coup by corrupt officials and ministers who have shaped it. I say to the Minister: Muslim terrorists are currently in the Netherlands because you and your predecessors have not allowed this to be reported in the Netherlands. You're responsible for that. And all those officials and all those ministers, Rutte and his gang, can only draw one conclusion: get out and get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u16	I don't know what the question is. In any case, I can say that at the moment I have no indication that, as Mr Wilders points out, there is talk of deceit or lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u17	That is not the case. This morning's newspaper says that whistleblowers have said that it has happened several times that phones have been found in asylum seekers' centres containing child pornography and torture, that they wanted to report that in the report, but that your top officials were not allowed to do so, that the Chamber was not informed and that nothing happened to that information. So there are currently Muslim terrorists in the Netherlands, because that should not be reported and we have not been informed. And why not? Because there were elections. The report was dated 31 January 2017 and the elections were in March. That's corrupt, that's dirty, that's false, and that puts the Netherlands in danger, and you need to get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u18	It strikes me that in discussions with the Minister when we talk about abuses, whether they happen in the police, at the WODC or at the Justice and Security Inspectorate, they all seem to have followed the same workshop led by Rutte. That's taken off with: I don't recognize myself in it. We have whistleblowers here. They're risking their careers. Sometimes they are also prosecuted under the leadership of this minister. These people do all this in the public interest, but then the Minister does not recognize it. This can't be happening. Did the Minister know about these abuses or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u19	Let me say first of all that there has been no persecution of whistleblowers that I have initiated. That's one. Two. I already said that in January 2018 I reported that these formal notifications were there. You can see in the Acts what the intention was to do with it at that time. You're talking about things like transparency. The only thing I say I don't recognize was Mr Grothuizen's question about that quote. I have in no way ordered that reports should not be sent to the Chamber because that would not come out or I do not know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u20	But then it's one of two. That means the minister about whistleblowers telling you this says they're saying something that's not true, that they're lying. It can't be that these people are lying and the minister is right or the other way around. I ask the Minister to reflect on this. There are people who report something in the public interest, including a minister who gives a clue. How does he feel about a civil servant getting up and just telling me that? Does he take that off with: I don't recognize myself in it, I have no memory of it? Or is he seriously gonna go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u21	The fire department report examined by the ADR was reported to me after the decision was taken to deposit it with the Audit Service Rijk. I think that is the right way forward, because I do not think that I should have any influence on what happens with it. There's been an investigation into that. I said in my introduction that I then decided to hold on to that report, because of course there is little point in coming up with such a report as would turn out to be... I think that makes it clearer that I took this report seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u22	Even if you don't want to think about it, you can't escape the impression that there is a very unfresh tribal struggle going on in this ministry. I appreciate that the Minister remains loyal to his officials, but I am sorry to say that I feel that the Minister's loyalty to his officials is greater than that of some officials vis-à-vis their minister. It may be a politically incorrect observation, but I want it done anyway, because that is the smell that arises from incidents of this kind. The Minister's telling us what happened. After all, that article is in the newspaper this morning. That is an extremely disloyal thing, when it is all handled properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u23	And the question is, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u24	The question I would like to focus on is the discussion that we will have tomorrow on the incident registration in the alien chain. I would ask the Minister to give an exact overview of what actually, really, happened with regard to the incidents that have been there and which would have been muffled away. I'd like to include that in the meeting tomorrow. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u25	I am not going to promise that I will have that for tomorrow's AA, but I can imagine your Chamber saying: we want to do this separately again, or in conjunction with the WODC, on which another debate is planned. Why do I say that? Because I'm just saying to your room, I really want to put it all together for you. As far as officials are concerned, it is quite clear to me that I am standing here, and so it must be state law. You may throw at me everything that happens at my ministry and draw your conclusions or put forward motions on it, but that is me and that is not the officials. That's what it's like, and that's how it's supposed to be. That's what I've been sworn in for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u26	The counterpart, the other side of the coin, is that the ruler is absolutely entitled to count on the absolute loyalty of his officials. I don't see enough of that line. The Minister's holding off the boat a little bit for tomorrow. I specifically ask for tomorrow. I don't want this on the long track, because then we'll be a few months away and it'll just go on and on. So I make an explicit request to the Minister: I want the fact sheet tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u27	Well, then you get it with some kind of caveat, in the sense of, "Whether this is it," I don't know. I'd be happy to assure you that I'll have that review within fourteen days of now. So far, I am quite strong in fulfilling my commitments in good time. Then you really have an overview on which you can address me, me, on my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u28	We have to debate the phenomenon of revolving door officials and the process of change in the justice system separately once again. My question focuses on... I have only one question and it also affects the point made by Mr Wilders. There has now been a great deal of fog and confusion. That affects whatever's in those audit reports. Is the Minister prepared to consider, in consultation with interested parties, whether these audit reports can still be made available to the Justice Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u29	Firstly, there is a clear explanation of the publication on the Justice website. That explanation also went to the relevant media. That's the first thing. Then the second. Let me put it this way: I will consult with the ADR in what way I can share this confidentially with you. Because it cannot be that I am putting that report down in a way that is ultimately not fully secured that it is not to be traced back to someone who has cooperated in that report. Again, that was the reason not to send the report at the time. But I'll come back to that in 14 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u30	These are again abuses brought forward by whistleblowers. The Minister's and the Ministry's confidence is being damaged. My first question to the Minister is: if you start with two reports and now there are seven whistleblowers, does he feel that at least there is no confidence in the staff that something has been done with their points? My second question is: why has the Minister himself decided not to actively inform the Chamber about the other incidents and to conduct active investigations? He could have ordered that. Why didn't he decide to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u31	I have always stressed that there have been two formal reports. Those are the two reports I'm aware of. I also informed your Chamber about this in January 2018. In itself that is how it should be: as soon as such a report is with the confidential person, I am at least aware of it. Then there is the other point of Mrs. Kuik; this was already played before this publication was in the picture. What about the recommendations of the Audit Service Reich in the light of the monitoring report they wrote in December? I would like to say the following: on a number of points, which the ADR says are not yet fully satisfied, I felt that I should have a discussion with the new Inspector General, who is also coming from outside the Ministry. I told him, "Would you like to see how you look at it? What kind of things should really happen now?" Then it may go a little differently from what Mrs Kuiken has just said, but with that we still take seriously that two formal reports were made at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u32	It can't be both true. First, the minister says he didn't know about multiple incidents. He then says: no, the ADR did not consider it necessary to carry out further investigations on the basis of other incidents. It can't be both true. Whether the Minister knew there were several incidents, and deliberately chose not to inform the Chamber about them and not to investigate them further. Or he knew about these incidents, but found the pattern sufficient not to go into further investigation. I'd like to know which one is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u33	Maybe I didn't make it quite clear, but I made it very clear that two formally reported reports were communicated to me after those reports had been made and decided on by the integrity coordinator. I reported it to your room, too. Notifications made in a lead path to trusted persons but not resulting in a formal notification to the integrity coordinator shall not be communicated to me. So I didn't know that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u34	If there is any official or political influence on the inspection, it affects democracy, our rule of law, and in this case also people for whom a decision must be made whether or not they are entitled to stay in the Netherlands. That's serious. If we really want an independent inspection, it is a fact for the Christian Union that there must be more distance. Physical distance, removal, away from the department, is then only a first step. But what I would like to ask the Minister: after the whistle-blowers' affair that revealed the WODC affair, we found that the problem is much deeper in the Ministry and that there really should be a cultural change. If I now read the first progress report to report on this, I get the impression that this change is not being used throughout the Department of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u35	And your question, Mrs. Van der Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u36	Is the Minister prepared to place this cultural change in a really wide range in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u37	The starting point is that this cultural change is taking place at ministerial level, but I want to promise you to get back to it, because that is actually how you could interpret the question. That should be the case, so I will return to you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u38	That's when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u39	There is also a WODC debate on the agenda. In that committee of inquiry, recommendations have been made on this, so I think it is sensible to say that I am sending such a letter to you no later than eight working days before that WoDC debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u40	Then that's a deal too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u41	I notice that the Minister likes to talk a lot about this, but mostly procedurally. He says that there are reports, that the reports have been noted and that there has been action in response to the reports. But I would very much like to comment on the content of the article. One of the things that is said is that sensitive information in the IND investigation has been kept out of the report. It's about videos of torture and child pornography, for example. I want to know the content: is this true?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u42	I have already said that this may sound procedural but it has led to a point of substance which I will also go into in detail in a letter in which I refer to the findings of my talks with the Inspector-General. I have just promised this in response to a question from, I believe, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u43	This half hour feels a bit like you ended up in Groundhog Day. My question is procedural, but hopefully with a connotation of substance. Do I understand now that two formal reports have been made, one of which was finally examined, namely the report that is being sent to the fire department, and the other, no matter how many incidents there were, has ever been formally commissioned to investigate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u45	I should like to go into the question of what we are going to do in concrete terms. It has just been recalled that, for example, an investigation has been carried out into the quality of detection. That is one of the three studies that are highlighted in today's article. Is the Minister prepared to send earlier versions of that report to the Chamber, as he did earlier in a discussion on MH17? Several versions of such a report were also sent to the Chamber before and after consultation. I have to tell you that I feel a little shaky about these reports. It would be very welcome to take that wavering away just by seeing what has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u46	I cannot, again on the point that I have just mentioned, make an unconditional commitment to this, but I would like to say that I am considering to what extent this is procedurally possible. I think it is right to say here that if we come to talk about this, of course it is mainly about whether the inspection can be carried out independently, without any influence whatsoever. That is also at the forefront of my discussions with the Inspector General of my inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you.
