ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill 35424, Temporary law digital deliberation and decision-making provinces, municipalities, water boards and public bodies Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I repeat that the fixed interrupt microphones operated by hand have been replaced by one microphone that can be operated by the foot. I would also like to inform Members that in the event of a motion, you should read the text yourself and then put this motion to the right of you on the green bench. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Chamber has met today to hold the debate and to vote on the Temporary Act on Digital Discussion and Decision-making, so that local representatives can re-examine and decide. Not that they wouldn't be able to right now. We are now dealing with the situation in which, taking into account the rules of RIVM, there are not enough representatives in various municipalities and provinces who feel morally obliged to provide a quorum. I cannot imagine that the majority of these people's representatives are not going to the supermarket, where cashiers and stockholders continue their work. Greetings for these people! While the minister and a large part of the local parliament are hiding behind the argument to set a good example and to keep local council members at home, people in care are sent to the care front, even if they are not feeling well. They don't have a five-foot comfort zone there. All these people do feel morally obligated. The PVV Group has deep respect for these people in care. I read a bit in De Telegraaf this morning that I don't want to remember you. Gerton Heyne, president of the professional association for caregivers and nurses, says that his organization is flooded with emergency calls from nursing staff who have no or little access to aprons, mouth caps and gloves, but sometimes with gentle compulsion is encouraged to continue their work. Let that get through to you, ladies and gentlemen. However, local decision-making must be initiated and the PVV Group is prepared to participate. However, there are some points on which clarity is desirable. Mr. Chairman. This law will be in force until 1 September 2020. With this, the law seems to be of a temporary nature. However, this law also provides for the possibility for the Minister to extend the law for two months on his own initiative. There's no limit on this. This can go on forever. How temporary is this law, then? The Minister states that the law will expire as soon as the virus is under control, but what is "under control" and when is it under control? Can the Minister explain that further? Mr. Chairman. In his or her call for the meeting, the president in the province or municipality indicates where to meet physically or digitally, giving the president a unilateral view of the way in which meetings are to be held. In the note following the report of the House of Representatives, the Minister states that the government does not share this view. In practice, however, things are different. Last week, one of the King's commissioners reported that he's in charge of security. In this context, he has decided to hold a digital meeting. In general, the Commissioner has a great deal of prestige within provincial governments and can be pressured consciously or unconsciously by means of this function. The question arises to what extent all interests are considered equally well and carefully. It is understandable that the Commissioner in question chooses security, but the Minister should not say that it is not all the same. In practice, it seems that a chairman may ignore this rule, without any consequences for him or her. It is important that it is clear that physical meetings and decisions are and remain the starting point, unless it can be demonstrated that there is no way to implement the measures prescribed by the RIVM. Does the Minister endorse this statement? The Minister replied that the Council's Rules of Procedure were simply applicable. If necessary, these Rules of Procedure concerning digital meetings may be supplemented. Can the Minister explain this in more detail? The adoption of this bill could lead to a discrepancy with the current regulations of order. Surely there will always have to be an addition to the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Chairman. Voting is the right of every representative of the people. The possibility of voting must therefore be guaranteed. This proposal requires each Member to have the technical possibilities to have access to the debate and vote. But how far does the term "need" go? It is stated in the explanatory statement that in the event that the technique fails but the quorum is met, there is simply a meeting and a decision can be taken. To what extent does the representative really still have technical possibilities in case, for example, the Internet connection between the representative of the people and the council fails? Although the government makes a distinction between a malfunction in the system used and a malfunction in a member's resources, it may be difficult to determine stante pede where the technical defect lies. It can't be that a people's representative can't vote because of this. The President may fall back on ballot papers, but that is not mandatory. In such a case, one should always fall back on ballot papers, so that the voting rights of every representative of the people are guaranteed. How am I supposed to see this in the light of the voting machines? To this day, voting is banned using a voting machine, but for local authorities digital voices would be safe. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Well, then I have one more tricky point. At local level, there is less control by the press than at national level. This is why abuse is lurking. It can already be seen that local authorities do not shy away from breaking the law. The question is how local authorities will deal with this new approach despite all integrity days. For the record, the PVV does not need this law for decision-making, because we remain in our posts, even if it becomes difficult. That is what we promised or swore when we accepted a seat. If you're not up to the heat in the kitchen, give your seat back to someone who can handle it. Like all those people in the country who are in the front line, who ensure our safety and health. Mr. Chairman. The PVV looks forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have already provided many written texts in this discussion and I have already asked many questions. I don't think I'm going to ask the Minister a lot of questions right now, but I'm going to talk about how to deal with this law. I also have two motions here, which I would like to table later. I'd like to appeal to my fellow senators that we shouldn't leave anything here. I received an e-mail this morning sent to the members of the city council of The Hague. It already anticipates the fact that we are going to adopt the law today. They also want to meet digitally there. Our concern is that digital meetings no longer really resemble what we should be doing as a democratic control body, namely having a sharp debate, preferably in two deadlines, interrupting, getting the matter sharp, as we are used to doing here and whatever happens in the local representative bodies. We are afraid that there will be little left. In that e-mail to the members of the city council it is said: we start with the fact that we are only doing one more term. Then there is an explicit demand for restraint. Then it also says: no interruptions possible. So what remains of the political debate? After that, the College will speak according to the rules and then there will be no interruptions. Mr. Chairman. The political debate is essential for democratic control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u6	I have a question for Mr Nicolaï. When the city council doesn't think that's a good rule, what does that city council do to decide with each other that they're not gonna do it like that? They set their own rules in democracy, don't they? If it's really unwanted, they just decide they're gonna do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u7	It's a fair question. I was supposed to come up with that later, but let me do it right away. You may have seen how that goes with digital meetings in the Seniors' meeting. You can't imagine 45 people coming into the picture. Interruptions such as those we are used to in a room are simply not possible with the safe digital things that are used to it. Voermans, the professor in Leiden, said: if you are having a real political debate, in which we are talking about real choices, where we need to get things sharp, then you have to see each other in the eye. I got a nice e-mail from Eric van der Burg, who said: I believe that Van Mierlo once said that you should be able to smell the smell of wild beasts. I didn't keep up with that because I'm from the Party for Animals, but I'm also a wild animal when it comes to the debate. We have to keep it that way. You should see it this way. There are such important questions coming to us all. You yourself have already referred to them and there is a social disruption coming towards us. That is not only the case nationally. Soon there will also be very special questions and choices in local politics. If we then put democratic control at a low level, not because we want it to be, but because there is no other way at the time when we are going to do it digitally, what are we doing? So the choice is exactly: what are we doing when the whole thing is done digitally on a low pitch if it can also be done physically? That will be the bet of my motion, but you have already understood that. If it is possible physically, Mrs Faber has already pointed that out. We should just get together. This also applies to municipal councils and provincial states.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u8	Yes, because of that smell of wild beasts I saw some images of the market in Wuhan, so I think we are in this crisis, unfortunately. But I do agree with you that this is not the ideal and that we should go for physical meetings. But if it doesn't work and it doesn't work after a test, isn't it up to the city council or the provincial states to establish a new regulation with each other? They can then say 'this does not work', and then a democratic decision is taken, which is looked at and decided what does work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u9	Mr. Nicolaï, I'd like a brief answer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u10	I agree with you, but we, here, are now in favour of a law which allows us to deviate from the normal procedure. And the first thing we need to do as the First Chamber is to see if it can't go through normal procedures. I am not convinced of that, but I would like to be convinced by the others here that this is not possible. I am not convinced that it would not be possible to meet within the normal procedures of the Province Law and the Municipal Law. 75% of municipal councils have even fewer than 30 members. According to the emergency regulations, you may perform a wedding ceremony, which is also often in a town hall...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u11	Mr. Nicolaï, would you please give me a quick answer? You still have speaking time in which you can also say a lot. Mr. Van der Linden sits down again, so I think your answer was sufficient. You want to add something briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u12	In fact, I was going to say what I would otherwise use my speaking time for, so that I do not have to do so in a moment and you may deduct it from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u13	Then I'm gonna turn the clock back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u14	I can see how it's getting complicated with that clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u15	That is, of course, the advantage of physical meetings. I give the floor to Mr Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u16	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Nicolaï pointed out that this law derogated from normal procedures and used the example of The Hague. But we are talking here about adaptation in terms of location and technique. The example you cite from The Hague is not an example that is the result of these laws and regulations. This chairman, or any other chairman in the country, may also propose that the meeting be held in one time limit. And it is exactly as Mr Van der Linden says: if we all go along with that, then we will meet in one period, without interruptions. I suspect that as a Chamber we would say to this President: no, we are just doing it in two terms with interruptions, because we are the boss, not the President. And that also applies in The Hague. And that is not affected by this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u17	This is influenced by this legislation, because it refers to a "other environment"; so "place" becomes "environment." It is not a procedural decision by the President either, but it is a substantive decision, because a political debate will then be held differently; the political debate will simply not be able to deal with the interruptions in terms of technology, as we are used to. That's essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u18	I dispute that. Last week I had a meeting with 69 people; then it should also be possible with the city council of The Hague. But apart from that, what is now being presented to us in laws and regulations does not affect the issue of one time limit, two time limits, whether or not there are interruptions; that is possible in either case. Moreover, you just indicated that most municipal councils are much smaller than the size of the Chamber or the City Council of The Hague. And then your argument, even when it comes to group meetings, is certainly not up, because then it is possible to see everyone and, just as it happens in other places, the word for an interruption can be obtained by showing hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u19	Mr. Nicolaï, a brief answer. And then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u20	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I welcome these last remarks, because it seems that Mr Van der Burg supports my proposal. Because if they are indeed small city councils, why shouldn't they just physically come together? What matters is the basic question: if it can, physically come together according to the rules of the game as we have developed for centuries, why should we deviate from that? That's my question. And it is possible, because we are sitting here with 75 Members and we are sitting here having a good debate. And so can the representation of the local bodies. If that's possible, we're supposed to follow it. That is my starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u21	Mr President, I have to get used to the foot pedal! My question to Mr Nicolaï. It's possible. In my opinion, this law does not oblige digital discussion and decision-making. There's no obligation. The freedom of the representative body therefore applies here too. Does he agree with me? Then there is the second question. What does he think about the fact that this legislation excludes vulnerable target groups, who are also representatives of the people, in order to perform their role as representatives of the people? Think of the elderly or, more kindly, the older seniors who fall into the risk group. Think of people with cardiovascular diseases. Think of people who know other circumstances, for example people who have been diagnosed with infections in the family. All these people are excluded from doing their job properly as representatives of the people, in the option proposed by Mr Nicolai. In the legislative proposal before us, they are included. I would like a brief but clear answer to both questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u22	I must honestly say that I do not quite understand the question, because if you have heart problems at home, I would indeed not go to the city council either. But I think you're referring to the fact that people who, in connection with the so-called quarantine arrangements, have someone with them who is ill are prevented from going. That's the only argument. Those people can at least vote, because you can simply vote in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u23	No, it is clear that this coronavirus also includes people with cardiovascular diseases, who are able to function well with medication in the current debate, even in this Chamber, people who do so, I think, are at risk. Those groups are recommended: don't go on the road. These people exclude Mr Nicolaï in his option of fulfilling their duties as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u24	Well, let me put it this way: I'm not ruling them out. They've been ruled out by the corona measures. If you'd just gotten sick yourself, you wouldn't have gone to the meeting either. That's right. So it has to do with disease, only the concept of "sickness" has become more extensive through the quarantine measure. But then I would say that Mrs Bikker should argue that, in general terms, the Province Act and the Municipal Act should be amended in order to introduce the possibility that people who are sick at home could somehow take part in the deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u25	I would like to ask Mr Nicolaï a question. There are some uncertainties in this situation. That's for sure. But why does Mr Nicolaï think it is right that this Chamber should decide whether or not this possibility of digital meetings exists? If we decide that this is not possible, then we must continue to hold physical meetings. While you might also ask yourself whether that consideration cannot be made much better at provincial or local level. Why better to decide here that this possibility is not possible at all than to allow them to make that assessment? Every situation is different: in Brabant it is different than in Friesland and in large municipalities it is different than in small municipalities. What leads you to say that we are deciding on this so that they will not be able to meet digitally in the near future, when you can also leave it to the people who are close and who are much better at overseeing the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u26	Because, as a formal legislator, we lay down the rules for democratic control laid down in the Municipal Act, the Water Authority Act and the Province Act. Those rules are there. Those rules can, in my view, simply be respected, except perhaps in the one case that someone has to stay home because someone in his house is sick. But those rules can simply be respected. That's one. The second is that if those rules are respected, it is not without meaning. These rules mean that a good political debate can take place. I'll show you how things are in the city council in The Hague. Then you say: yes, that's for them to decide. But it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It is a bit in line with what Mrs Faber said: I think we should set an example. We're just here. We will continue to apply the rules governing democratic control in the law. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u27	But this bill doesn't affect those rules at all. They simply continue to exist, so democratic control can continue to exist. It is then up to the local or provincial level to decide whether to do so in a digital or a physical environment. They are best able, I think, to do that right. What is preventing Mr Nicolaï from giving that opportunity, that consideration, to elected representatives and directors at local and provincial level?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u28	Mr Nicolaï briefly and then Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u29	You're turning around. There must be a reason to intervene in the normal process. If you say, 'We have given some thought to the question of whether we should not allow digital meetings at all for any representative bodies', as a result of everything that is going on in the corona crisis, then you have a point. I'd be very much against that. But at the moment, as far as I am concerned, there is no reason to temporarily amend the normal rules in this sense, in fact, it is still a kind of emergency right............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There's temporary intervention; something's coming up. I'm against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u30	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u31	Mr Nicolaï is indeed saying: at the moment. It's a temporary law. But once again: this consideration can best be made at local or provincial level? That's the point. They oversee the situation. This is completely separate from the way democratic control is exercised. That has just been debated. You can do that now. In physical meetings, you could also decide to do it in one term. We could decide that here too, but we will not. That doesn't make any sense. It is purely a question of whether a digital meeting should be organised at local or provincial level. You think there should be a special situation. This corona crisis seems special enough to allow that consideration to be given to those levels of governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u32	Mr Nicolaï briefly and then Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u33	I hope Mr Koole has read the law correctly. Maybe he read it better than I did. When I read the law, I do not see at all that the local parliament decides whether to proceed to a digital meeting. I see the chairman, the mayor, decides that. So let's face it, they're all some kind of emergency legal intervention. The mayor can do things in the context of the security regions. Now it's the mayor who can decide that. For my part, we go on slippery ice when we go down those kind of roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u34	I actually had an interruption on Mr. Koole, but yes, there's only one microphone available now, so there was no other way. Here's what's important. Mr Koole says very nicely that this decision-making can take place at local level, but let's not forget that at local level coalitions crawl together and support each other. And they're gonna decide how they're gonna meet. Then the entire opposition will be pulled over at once. That is the danger that is now imminent. We have seen before that a king's commissioner decides how to meet. If the coalition is behind that, the opposition has checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u35	I now give the floor to Mr Nicolaï for the continuation of his speech. Go ahead, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u36	Thank you. I saw someone moving again, but he's only gonna clean the microphone. For a moment, I thought there was another interruption. I think that's okay, because the people have to talk to us; we're just representatives here. However you turn or turn, I do not think anyone here will say that there are no very special political considerations coming towards us, even at local level. Nor do I think that anyone here will deny that the digital conduct of the political debate, in terms of its impact, how it works, the atmosphere and so on, cannot be compared to the physical conduct of that debate. I think we all agree. The point is: are we really going to have this debate or is the President going to decide that we are going to do it digitally? The first example that comes in is that of the city council of The Hague. I've already shown you that. There it goes digitally, and then that political debate doesn't get off the ground. We must be careful, because there must also be real debates at the local level. We have a lot of ground to cover nationwide, but at the local level, with the social disruption that is going on, there are also serious questions. If the points of contact for financial aid go wrong, then you should be able to have a sharp debate about it. It's not digital. The same applies when an emergency regulation is put in place. In one region, something that is not allowed in the other region is allowed. As a city council member, you should be able to ask questions about this and there should be a politically strong debate on this. If more schoolchildren have to have an iPad at home, if the waste collection fails, then it should be possible to debate it. I am not even talking about the public order problems, because let us be honest: a lot of bad things can happen. Physical debates can simply be done, although I must admit to Mrs Bikker that this does not apply to those who have someone at home who keeps him or her in quarantine. I see a wild beast standing up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u37	That is not so bad, but Mr Nicolaï continues to spread false texts here. He keeps telling people to stay home when they have someone at home who's sick. That is clearly not the issue. Mrs Bikker didn't say that either. The cabinet has indicated that people who are vulnerable themselves, or who have a vulnerable person at home, should stay at home. This applies, for example, to people over 65. There are 24 people in this room who have passed the age of 65. It is not easy to see Mr Nicolaï, but he himself is one of them. He makes his own choice, but also in municipal councils, provincial states and water boards people are over 65. RIVM and the government say to those people, stay home. Mr Nicolaï keeps forgetting those people in his list. He says trivializingly that it's only about people who have someone in quarantine at home. No, if you're over 65, stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u38	What's your short question, or was this it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u39	I am concerned that Mr Nicolaï should not always make a statement that is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u40	What's your short question? You yourself have not requested speaking time, so you will not have it either. You can ask a short question in the event of interruption. Then Mr Nicolaï will answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u41	Does Mr Nicolaï agree with me that we, as Members of Parliament, should play an important role in providing the right information on who should abide by what rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u42	Sure. By the way, I am 72, the second oldest in this Chamber. But if there are not enough doctors to call in retired doctors, they will not say: the government has told me to stay home. But that aside. Let's be there for society. That's all I can say. Let's get this over with. If people over 65 think they should stay at home, I say with Mr Van der Burg that this is their choice. However, as a representative of the people, I believe that you should do your job as well as possible. I think there should be public debates and people should see politics live. That's what we're here for. We shouldn't be meeting in back rooms with a screen. There must be some interruptions. We need to look each other in the eye, and we need to be able to discuss the choices that need to be made in the coming period, including at local level, in all sharpness. In my opinion, the starting point should be that, if it is actually possible to get together, we do. In view of this, I shall put the next motion to the House. The President shall: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Koffeman and Mr Teunissen tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Act on digital deliberation and decision-making provides for the possibility to refrain from physical deliberation by representative bodies, provinces, municipalities, water boards and public bodies, Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba;]] [[Whereas emergency regulations expressly exclude meetings of representative bodies from the prohibition of meetings;]] [[Whereas, in the context of the corona crisis and the special circumstances it entails, democratic control must be optimally guaranteed;]] [[Whereas the conduct of a political debate is less likely to take place in a digital environment than during a physical meeting;]] [[Whereas, in the interests of democratic control, the conduct of a political debate in the physical environment should be waived only if it is not possible to conduct that debate in a physical space in compliance with the RIVM standard of 1.5 metres away;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Presidents responsible for deciding on a digital debate in writing that the conduct of a political debate in the physical environment should be waived only if it is not possible, in compliance with the RIVM standard of 1.5 metres away, to conduct that debate in a physical space,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35424-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u43	I think this is not a motion but an amendment. The law requires that in this circumstance until 1 September there can exceptionally be a digital discussion and meeting. If we pass that law, that's the text. That Mr Nicolaï is now proposing to change that text, you can be in favour of it or against it, but we cannot do that. So my question to Mr Nicolaï is whether he understands that this is an amendment and that the government will say: sorry, but we cannot do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u44	Luckily, I know something about this jurisdiction. It is not, of course, an amendment. I'd be stupid if I, as a Member of Parliament, thought I had the right of amendment. It's about the application of the law. The law that we are going to adopt today is also clear to me that we are going to adopt it. What I say with this motion is that we want the Minister... It is therefore not a legally binding ruling either, because the Minister is not going to regulate the law further. We want the Minister to say to the Presidents: remember, you are now given a power of the formal legislator and if you are going to exercise that power, you must be careful that you are only going to use that power when there is really no other way. That's what my motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u45	I also had the questions asked by Mr Nicolaï. I put it in a written pre-consultation and the answer from the government is: 'Yes, we see this as an exception. Yes, we will, at the request of the SP Group, communicate this to the relevant municipal authorities. No, there can be no private digital meeting and yes, the Rules of Procedure remain fully applicable." I therefore believe that the government has answered more than generously the questions raised by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and my group and other groups. Then there is the question of what this motion, which I think is really an amendment, adds, knowing that the government will say: listen, we cannot dedicate it. The colleague of the Animal Party himself says that it is not a mandatory communication that the Minister will then make. He will just look kindly, as our minister always does, saying: understand that. I believe that this motion, tabled in this way, has little chance of success and does not add much. I think it is more important that the Minister, if there are any doubts with Mr Nicolaï or with the Chamber, should clarify them, but I think he has answered all these questions as generously as he could.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u46	The Minister will, of course, be able to respond to this motion in the first place. In any case, you are holding up the motion at this time, I think. Is the submission of the motion sufficiently supported? That's the case. Then the motion is part of the debate. I would ask Mr Nicolaï to put the motion on the bench on his right and resume his speech, pointing out to him that his speaking time is now over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u47	Yes. I have one minute and eleven seconds left, but I saw that reading the motion was included at once in my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u48	No, Mr. Nicolaï, the clock is now at minus one minute and eleven seconds, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u49	Okay. Then I'll just read out the second motion. It's about temporaryity. The President shall: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Koffeman and Mr Teunissen tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Act on digital deliberation and decision-making provides for the possibility to refrain from physical deliberation by representative bodies, provinces, municipalities, water boards and public bodies, Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba;]] [[Whereas the Government intends to evaluate the use of this option, which will include the security and reliability of procedures and their results in addition to the legal and political administrative aspects, and which will be sent to the Chamber;]] [[whereas the Government has indicated that the law will be extended by 1 September 2020 if, in its view, no physical meetings can still take place;]] [[Whereas it is important for the Court to assess not only whether an extension of the law can take place but also whether the legislation needs to be adapted;]] [[Whereas the Court will not be able to rule on this matter until after the summer recess;]] [[invites the Government, if the Court has not been able to assess the evaluation before 1 September 2020, to limit any extension from 1 September 2020 to a maximum duration of four weeks and to decide on a subsequent extension only after the Court has discussed the evaluation with it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35424-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u50	Mr President, may I also ask a question about this? In the written preparation, my group, as well as other groups, asked the question: is this law finished on 1 September? Yeah, the government says. This law shall expire on 1 September. It only does not expire when the circumstances are still such that it needs to be extended. Is the government prepared to discuss this with Parliament in advance? The Minister says: yes, I am prepared to do so. If the law can be extended for reasons other than the corona crisis, my group has asked. The minister says, no, that's not gonna happen. Even if it pleases, another law will still be needed. What more do you want as a Chamber if you get all those questions answered in this way and now submit a motion that he may be renewed for four weeks without all those promises? I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u51	This was the explanation of vote for the moment, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u52	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u53	Well, maybe the explanation of vote will be different if Mr. Kox gets the explanation from me. The way it is now, we just have recesses and we are not finished before 1 September. So we don't get back together until after 1 September. That is the starting point of my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u54	Mr President, on a point of order, certainly at this time, the Chamber can meet whenever the Chamber so wishes. It's not like we have to go on vacation. We've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u55	As the recess is now planned, we will not get back together until 7 September. My fear is that there will be a two-month extension on 1 September, and perhaps the evaluation will show that there have been quite a number of things that have gone wrong. The point of my motion is as follows: if this is the case, then it will not be possible to judge it before 1 September and the government will have to extend it by 1 September, it will have to be extended not for two months, but for a maximum of four weeks, so that we will have the opportunity to discuss the evaluation with the Minister when we get back together, as has already been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u56	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u57	It is good that the opposition is critical of the coalition, but if a government, at the request of this Chamber, says "yes, I am willing to do so," is it still an addition to table a motion and say: yes, but you have to do something else? The means must also serve the purpose. Are the municipal councils or the provincial states now served if we take your motion? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u58	Finally, Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u59	I don't understand how Mr. Kox's addition should help me. What matters to me is that I do not want to see a two-month extension on 1 September. This can still be done in all the commitments made by the Minister to the questions of anyone. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I note that Mr Nicolaï has tabled two motions. The first motion, on a written communication to the Presidents, gets No. 35424, letter C. The second motion, on the possible limitation of renewal, will receive No. I now give the floor to Mr De Vries of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u61	Mr. Chairman. Temporary solutions take the longest. This is the case with emergency legislation which is being introduced as quickly in crisis situations, as is happening now because of the corona crisis with the Temporary Act digital deliberation and decision-making provinces, municipalities, water boards and public bodies Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba. That's a mouthful. Mr. Chairman. Our group understands that meetings in waterboards, provinces, municipalities and the Caribbean in the Netherlands should be able to continue during the corona crisis. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is therefore not necessarily opposed to this bill, but one might wonder whether there are no other ways of organising these meetings in public, for example in congress halls or sports halls. In similar arrangements, the interpersonal interaction which is so important for a debate can take place at a sufficient distance and members of the public and the press can attend the debates, of course, with due regard for the RIVM directives as the democratic decision-making process should go. That way it will remain transparent. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that the temporary solution provided for in the present legislative proposal is too long, namely until 1 September 2020 and with the possibility of a two-month extension by means of a royal decision. Let us look back at what "temporary" laws have been introduced in crisis situations. I shall begin with the introduction of the payroll tax. It was proclaimed by the German occupying forces on 14 December 1940 by the decree on the payroll tax in the Dutch government magazine for the occupied Dutch territory. In the meantime, we are 80 years ahead and the payroll tax still exists. I also mention the dismissal permit. It was introduced in 1940 by the German occupying forces and adopted in 1945 by Prime Minister Drees in the Extraordinary Order of Labour Relations 1945. That decision lasted for more than 70 years, until very recently, namely until 1 July 2015. Let me mention the Law on Economic Crimes. It also originated in the occupation time. In the meantime, we are 80 years ahead and this legislation is still in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u62	I have a question for the Otten Group. You state that there can be a meeting in a sports hall. You can still do that, can't you? Surely you agree with me that there will only be an opportunity to meet digitally, but that local authorities can choose not to? They get a choice and not an assignment, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u63	That will be the case, but with these digital possibilities, the option of hiring out a sports hall and carrying out all the work that needs to be done for this purpose will lead to major obstacles in the local councils you are referring to today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u64	I am a city councilman myself, and I have simply proposed to meet in a sports hall in the college of seniors/presidium meetings of my municipality. It is being considered, it is being worked out and we are taking a decision on it. I think that's very healthy. Only, we didn't have the choice to engage digitally, because that possibility wasn't there. We're just gonna have more options, aren't we? Isn't that what this law does?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u65	That was your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u66	As I have indicated, we are not against this law either. If you continue until September 1st, it will continue to circulate for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u67	Please continue your argument, Mr. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u68	Let's see. Where was I? CDA colleague and fiscalist Peter Essers wrote an interesting book about it a few years ago, entitled Belast past. In it, Mr Essers describes how the Tax Administration Summit very easily agreed to this temporary legislation. Mr. Chairman. These examples are merely an illustration of how temporary measures introduced in time of war or crisis can, in practice, last for many decades or much longer. Of course, the situation today is not comparable to the Second World War, but examples illustrate how long temporary measures can remain in force. It is not for nothing that the Council of State advised: "The Section therefore recommends that the Temporary Law provide that it should expire at a certain time specified in the proposal; on 1 June, in line with the policy of the Cabinet on events, or any other time-limit argued. That period may then be extended by Royal Decree for a maximum period of six weeks at any time. This ensures that the need for and maintenance of emergency measures must be regularly assessed (...)." Mr. Chairman. As I have argued, temporary measures take the longest. And we want to avoid that in this case. That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled the next motion, requesting that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote. The President shall: Mr De Vries and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis calls for a temporary digital meeting;]] [[Whereas the political debate in a digital environment cannot be optimal;]] [[Whereas the digital treatment of proposals and decision-making is an emergency-born experiment in which a moment of evaluation and a possible adaptation of its implementation is of great democratic importance;]] [[Whereas standardisation of emergency legislation is undesirable;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Council of State that the temporary act should expire on 1 June 2020, in line with the policy of the Cabinet on events;]] [[calls on the Government, in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State, to repeal the Temporary Digital Discussion and Decision-making Act on Provinces, Municipalities, Water Boards and Public Authorities Bonaire, St Eustatius and Saba on 1 June 2020 and to limit any extension of this Act to a maximum of four weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35424-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u69	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u70	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'll take a look at the minister. The Minister can answer immediately. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is a particular reason for this bill, this urgent proposal, not an emergency proposal. That is why all of us, the whole of society, are confronted with corona, COVID-19, which affects our entire society and the way in which we act with each other, even in this Chamber. We must literally distance ourselves from this virus, on the basis of RIVM's advice, in order to ensure that the fight against this virus is as effective as possible and to prevent people from becoming unnecessarily ill. From this point on, I would like to express my very great appreciation to all, of course, first of all for the people in the care, who are in the front line, who are really close to those people who are allowed and should stand in the difficult moments that they all have. Unfortunately, we've had a lot of deaths. They have a major impact not only on the care and the people who work there daily, but also on our entire society. This isn't an incident or a day's crisis. This is gonna take some time. This has been going on for some time. It requires a lot of people's ability to collect money in the Netherlands, of perseverance, of discipline to comply with the measures. We have seen that the bank is doing quite well, that people are really aware of the individual responsibility that everyone has to ensure that this virus is muffled. In the meantime, we are trying to keep society running as well and as angry as we can and go, because we all know the consequences of completely stopping the way we live and work with each other. People still have to eat. Food supply and that whole chain still need to be operational. The same is true of the concern, of course, but also of what you are doing here, what municipal councils and provincial states are doing, namely making decisions in the interests of their inhabitants. That's what companies do. They do this every day in a different way than they did two months ago. There has been a total turnaround, a different way of working, for everyone. That's what's going on, let's be honest. Sometimes a little easier than at any other time. It's gonna fall and get up, but we don't have a choice. If we're gonna overcome this virus, we're gonna have to work another way. That is temporary, we hope, because we hope eventually that we can return to a normal situation, but that means that we need to use all the technology and resources we have at our disposal to drive society as far as possible. That's the task we all have. I will not deny that this sometimes means that we have to step outside the beaten track. That's for ourselves as an individual. We have to work in a very different way, from home, a lot of digital. Companies do that. We also get the call to stay home as much as possible, including to protect the vulnerable in our society. But that is also true in social contacts. Funerals and funerals take place in a completely different way than we would really like, but we do so because we know that we can protect other people. A lot of important words are written in the Constitution about the assembly of representative bodies, but also in the Municipal Law, the Provincial Law and the Water Authority Act, for example. It states, among other things, that these meetings must take place in public, as much as possible, and also in an environment where people meet physically, where people are present today, so physically. However, the very special thing about the crisis we are now in is that this physical proximity does not contribute to the fight against this virus. That is a very special element that you do not actually encounter in other crises. So that creates obstacles. Then you can do two things. You can say, "Well, we'll accept that." This means that a number of people cannot take up their role as representatives of the people as laid down in the Municipal, Provincial and Water Authority Act. Or you can see how to make a temporary provision, thanks to today's technique, in which you also allow people who, for example, are in the situation in which they are forced to stay at home or who are in a very vulnerable group to meet and discuss in public. I am absolutely right with those who have said that the public element in which the press can play an important role, where external control is taking place, is an undeniable cornerstone of the way in which we organized it in the Netherlands. That is precisely why we have organised it as we have done in the proposal now before us. An exceptional situation requires exceptional measures. I would like to say that this is not emergency legislation. If that had been the case, we would have been sitting in the Knight's Room in the United Assembly under the leadership of your President and we would have had a very different constellation. This is about emergency legislation. I am very grateful to your Chamber for the fact that, in an extremely rapid manner, you have contributed to our proposal by way of speaking at the hour. This also applies to the people in the Lower House. This helps to ensure that this deep-feeling desire of municipal councils, Provincial States and water boards to use it where it runs against the borders of whether it can physically do it all, gets force of law. I think this also shows that, when we talk about the resilience of the Netherlands and the resilience of the parliament, we can respond quickly to changing situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u72	Am I good to hear? The microphone's a little high and I can't touch it. Yeah? Okay. I have another question for the Minister. He states that there are people's representatives who cannot participate physically because of any circumstances. But first of all, we need a quorum. Half minus one doesn't necessarily appear physically. That's point one. So you've got quite a bit of air in there. You'll always have people on the list who aren't sitting on a couch. So there's air in there, too. We are in a situation where there is a shortage of ic nurses. They must go to work; they are forced to do so with gentle compulsion. Regardless of whether they're coughing or snotting, there's really a slight pressure on those people to go. But now we're talking about people's representatives. When I look around here in this room, I see how well it is done here. All praise for that. This can also be done at local level. If there are people who are sick, weak or nauseous, they do not necessarily have to come because there is enough air because other people can come. So I can't see the need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u73	I can see that need. For municipal councils, Provincial States and water boards, there is currently no possibility to choose different forms from those they currently choose, by way of derogation from the legislation currently in force. That is not the case for First and Second Chambers. The origins of the way in which you meet are set out in the Constitution and have subsequently been translated into Rules of Procedure. This does not apply to the directors and representatives of the people in municipalities, provinces and water boards. You will also have to make it clear to those people that this must be done as well and as badly as possible within the legal framework. I agree with Mrs Faber that it is still preferable to meet physically under the conditions as advised by RIVM, but that is not possible in all cases. I have confidence in our governing bodies that they can decide for themselves on the basis of this temporary legislation whether it allows them to do justice to the right of each individual representative of the people to participate in the deliberations. That is an element that was not so much addressed in the debate just now, but it is very important that you cannot deny people that right on the basis of medical backgrounds in this very special situation. Again, there is a crisis. The measures that have been taken are based on the fact that you have to keep your distance and that some people are urgently advised to stay at home. You were talking about shopping. There are also many solutions to this, for example that other people are shopping for vulnerable groups. Fortunately, that happens a lot. That's what I see in my own environment. That's great. It's nice that society picks that up. But if you have the right of a popular representative to participate in those deliberations, against the fact that you say that some people can stay at home, this means that in this case you decide that some people should not participate. That would be a real violation of everyone's right. Just because of the possibilities we now have in the digital age... Again, it is not for nothing temporary legislation, because if we thought this was a permanent idea, we would have a completely different debate. Then I agree with Mr Kox that I have also indicated in the answers to the questions that this is a completely new consideration. We're not going to extend that with this bill for eternity. No way. That's not what this bill is for. This legislative proposal is intended to enable the bodies which cannot physically regulate it to complete it in this way, in the particular situation in which we find ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u74	Your second interruption, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u75	I do not entirely agree with the Minister. If I had stomach flu, I wouldn't be standing here either, and I would have just asked my vice-president. It would've just freaked out. We're not going to meet digitally because Mrs Faber has a stomach flu. But aside from that... Do I understand correctly that the Minister states that there is no possibility of physically meeting at the local level at the representative councils?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u76	No, I didn't say that. We leave the possibility of determining that to the governing bodies themselves. We do not think that we should report this from The Hague. We offer that opportunity. In replying to the questions in writing, I made it very clear that the starting point is and remains that you will meet physically as much as possible. It is up to the municipal councils, provincial states and water authorities to decide for themselves. For example, there may be situations where there is a threat of a quorum problem. This is not related to the great commitment that is now being made in the care sector. Those front people, as you call them, and I can only confirm that term, go out daily to help other people. But we also said: if it is not really necessary to look for that risk, you are asked to work from home as much as possible. Those are the guidelines issued by RIVM. We have said that we are going to translate them into laws and regulations. This temporary legislation fits fully within those frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u77	Mrs Faber, just a brief last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u78	One more comment: I do not hear the Minister saying that it is not possible to meet physically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u79	In a number of situations, it may simply be possible for everyone, taking into account the distance standard, to participate in the deliberations. Honesty commands that most council halls are not designed in such a way that that distance is obvious. There are indeed other solutions possible. But what is very important is that the deliberations can continue, that all the representatives of the people can participate, that it is public and that what is happening is transparent for everyone. If that were not the case, then you really have a point about the fact that it would be an infringement of the existing method of working. I have already promised an evaluation, and on top of that, this really is a temporary law, linked in some way to the expected duration of social exclusion measures. They form the basis of the legislative proposal that lies here: we must keep our distance from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u80	I have a question for the Minister. He said: if someone really wants to take part in the deliberations but has someone who is sick or at risk at home, then we have to respond to them. I would say that these people are in a situation of force majeure and therefore cannot go to the physical debate. I say this with emphasis, because in response to the criticisms made by the various senators, for example, your child sitting at home in front of the screen pulls the plug, the power is on or whatever, the Minister says that you have to accept it and that this is force majeure. How do these two cases relate to each other? On the one hand, you say that you must accept it because it is force majeure, but on the other hand you say that we cannot accept that you cannot go to the debate if you are ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u81	I've seen my little boy pull the Wi-Fi connection myself. He'll do it once. What is meant here, and what I have also indicated in the law, is that there must be guarantees that there is a physical possibility that anyone can log in. This is without prejudice to the fact that individual cases may fall out of the digital debate, because something may go wrong in a connection somewhere. You can make agreements on this subject on the basis of an amended or additional rules of procedure. That's what we're doing right now with the VNG. A city council, provincial states and a water authority can do that themselves. You can agree that if anything happens, someone will take the phone or apprehend the chairman or clerk with the message: I fell out and can you just fix the connection? Then it can be checked whether it's a matter of resetting and you're back two minutes later.I'm already going into details or whether there's really a structural problem. Then it is up to the President, who takes decisions with the support of the entire Assembly, to decide what he will do. Suppose, for a given vote, it really comes down to one voice and someone falls off the link. Then, of course, it is perfectly permissible to postpone a vote because we know that someone is out and can influence the vote. These are all concrete examples for which a solution can practically be found. That is, of course, a justified point. Because if everyone fell out, or a hack would be put and people would really get pushed out, then we're talking about a completely different situation. I think we are talking here about a situation where, for example, 45 people are in a video conference and someone falls out, and whether that will determine a vote that might have been held. So it is not infallible, but there is always the possibility for a chairman to propose a kind of hardness clause, and say, for example, that in view of the fact that there has been a problem here, we are postponing the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u82	Mr. Nicolaï, last?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u83	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But I don't feel like my question was answered. My question was very simple. The people you are talking about, who are technically out of work at home, I'll say, you say: we may be able to do something about that, but if we can't do anything about it, it's force majeure. On the other hand, you say: we need this, because people who may belong to a risk group or have someone at home who is sick, we need to be able to serve them. And of that you say: that is not force majeure. I don't understand. On the one hand, we must accept it, on the other hand, it is so understood and I hear Mrs Bikker also say that we must also be able to serve those weak groups. You can also serve it, because you can also pick up a ballot with the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u84	Yes, the latter can certainly, but someone also has the right to participate in the deliberations, and that is difficult if you cannot be physically present. And look, "force majeure"... Well, if someone misses the train, if the train is delayed, if someone falls off the line, it's force majeure. If a person is unable to participate in a meeting because a system has been devised in which people are trapped on the one hand and have to stay at home because of a physical condition or a quarantine situation of a family and on the other hand meetings simply take place in the regular way and they cannot consistently participate in it, then there is no force majeure; then people are excluded. So that's the difference. What administrative bodies are obliged to set up is a system, a physical infrastructure, and most of them have just that; and if you don't have it, you just can't do it, where access is guaranteed for everyone. Everyone then has a device, a tablet, as happens here in the First Chamber, and a connection, and everyone can then participate in deliberations and public votes. If one of these devices fails, I call it 'force majeure', but I compare that with a train that doesn't drive or a traffic jam on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u85	You continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u86	Mr. Chairman. I almost got to the point where I wanted to thank the Chamber for the extremely quick way in which it acted. I think that, like this legislation, is an example of responding to the changed circumstances. I would like to answer the questions that have been asked very specifically, a little in random order. I will start with Mrs Faber, who was also the first to speak. She made a comparison with the voting machines we no longer use, because they are unreliable; at least, the voting machines we had. Then why is this proposal? Well, those voting machines couldn't secure the secret of voting, which is why they're no longer used. Voting in representative bodies, such as municipal councils, Provincial States and water authorities, are by definition public. And that openness also provides a guarantee for a careful process. Letter votes, in the case of appointments, of course do not take place digitally, but that is the traditional way. The comparison between a voting machine and this bill is therefore flawed in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u87	Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u88	Mr. Chairman. It is still in my memory that these voting machines were not so much about the secret of voting but about the possibility that signals could influence voting behaviour. I thought that was just the reason that that was abolished, or that the use of voting machines was put in the refrigerator at least for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u89	That's correct. The vote secret, the reliability of the voice delivered in a digital form and the traceability afterwards of whether a person actually cast a vote were questionable. I believe that was stopped then, about ten years ago, so we are voting with pencil again. But that's why that's different from this bill, because here you can just, in front of the camera, in the image, cast your vote, and say whether you're for or against; completely transparent. And if the connection fails for a while, the President can suspend for a moment and say: we wait until the connection is restored and then we resume the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u91	The following with regard to the question of how temporary this law is. That's a good question I can't answer. The proposal for an end date is now before us; that law will automatically be terminated on 1 September. That horizon clause in that law has also been made very consciously, because we do not want this legislation to end up as Mr De Vries said: temporary emergency measures take the longest. That was a nice paraphrasing of another saying. That is clearly not the intention of this. In response to questions from the SP, this is also very clearly stated. This is not a walk to say: well, it's very good, so we'll just go on with it. There's gonna be an evaluation. But if that evaluation shows that this is actually very good, then there really needs to be another proposal and a new legislative proposal. Then it is not a question of prolonging this. I have no reason or idea, or else I can't say we would. I do not think that we would have come up with this proposal if the special situation in which we are all sitting had not given rise to this. In answer to the question "how long is this going to take?" This means that the advice of the RIVM is ultimately leading. Let me just put it this way: if by then these opinions are still the same as they are now with regard to 'as much as possible stay home and social distance', then that is a legitimate reason for extending the law. If that is not the case, then we are not going to keep this in the air any longer than necessary. This is then part of the package of measures that you can take to scale down again, so to speak. But as a horizontal clause, the choice has now been made for 1 September. Let me now turn to the question that Mr De Vries also had. The Council of State has said: June or any other date to be motivated. Well, 1 June is, of course, linked in that sense to earlier horizontal provisions decided upon by the Cabinet. But there is a good chance that some of these measures will continue to take place afterwards. Then you'd have to make another decision. Then you could say: we do July 1st. But July 1 is another one of those moments where the municipal councils and provincial states often have a meeting just after that, early July. Then you could say: August 1st. Well, I have heard Mr Nicolaï say that there will be a recess. Then there will be no meeting either. Then 1 September is in itself a very clear date, which we also motivate in that way. But if an extension is needed, it will also have to be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u92	The Minister says something interesting. He says, if it's going to take too long, we should have come up with another bill. Then my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u93	Well, then it wouldn't have been a temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u94	But my question is: what does the Minister consider to be a reasonable period of time to keep this law up to date? Are you talking about extending once, extending twice, extending three times, extending four times? Are you talking about a year, two years? For the Minister also states in the reply: we will uphold this law as long as the virus is not under control. But, of course, that's very stretchy. So my question is: what does the Minister think is a fair time-limit to keep this law up to date?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u95	That is actually quite simple: as long as the advice of the RIVM gives rise to this. That is the measure of how long this law should last, possibly even after 1 September. So I can't give you the real answer to that. One. I'm not a predictor, so I don't know how it develops. I hope that by then we will be in a regime in which things like this can be done again, but I do not dare to say that. So we are also taking into account a scenario where that is not the case. Mrs Faber also asked about the press and the role of the press. Well, I've already gone into that. They can follow all that, because everything is public. With regard to the rules of procedure, I have indicated that there will be a supplement. That's what we're doing, together with the VNG and the clerks. In addition to the existing regulations of order, we make a kind of addendum. They specifically address the possibilities that organs have around digital meetings. It includes additional provisions. Of course, they last as long as the law is in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u96	Let's talk about the rules of procedure. The Minister therefore states that, if desired, there may be a supplement to a Rules of Procedure. But isn't it just an obligation to amend the Rules of Procedure? Because the moment this law is passed, you get a discrepancy between the rules of procedure and the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u97	So here's the point: what does and what doesn't oblige you? This law offers the possibility to use digital meetings. Again, the starting point remains that you do it physically, if you can. But the expectation is that in some cases that will just be difficult. That can also really vary from one municipality to another. That's the space we want to offer. We do not want to determine that from The Hague. I have every confidence in governing bodies to do so themselves, but it seems to me to be reasonable that, at the time you go to digital meetings, even though you do not do so permanently, because it may also be possible that you do so for certain occasions, so indeed you have a rules of procedure that provide for that new form of meeting. That is why we come up with a model regulation. But it is up to the municipal councils, states and water authorities to implement that and decide on it. One may also deviate from that. If one has a good reason to give one's own interpretation, then that is allowed. We expressly did not want to regulate this in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u98	But if a local council wants to meet digitally, does it have to work with rules of procedure or additional rules of procedure, which is up-to-date? 'Cause if you don't, you're not gonna play by the rules anymore. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u99	Yeah, that makes perfect sense to me. Once again, we offer a hand-out so that not every municipality or every body has to work out such a new regulation itself. We try to make this a good model with the VNG and the Association of Registrars, who, of course, deal with this every day. Then Mrs Faber had another question. In a province, a CdK would have already decided on digital meetings. I can just imagine that that is the province of Gelderland; let's just call the animal by the name. I understand that an announcement has been made, an intention to meet digitally, assuming that it is perhaps premature that this bill would be adopted today by the First Chamber. A plan can always be withdrawn, so here is actually rather proactively acted by this province. Then I'll get to the motions. In the motion with letter C, by Mr Nicolaï, the government is asked to inform the Presidents who are competent to decide on digital debate in writing that the conduct of a political debate in a physical environment may only be waived if it is not possible, in compliance with the RIVM standard of 1.5 metres away, to conduct that debate in a physical space. However, I agree with Mr Kox that this motion is de facto an amendment, because it really takes a different approach from that we advocate with the temporary law, namely the possibility of using digital debate. Here a kind of conditionality is built in, where you first have to check whether it can or not physically and then decide to do it digitally. That is clearly not the spirit of the legislation that has been put forward. I don't want to instruct in it either. I really want to leave it with the administrative bodies, which I think are perfectly capable of deciding, in a democratic composition. They can weigh up the advantages and disadvantages, as they have just changed. But I don't want to put that in the law right now. I do see this motion as a proposal to amend the legislative proposal as it now stands. I must therefore discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u100	I hear the Minister say that he would like to leave it to the local democratic bodies to decide, but is it the city council or the chairman who decides that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u101	That is a valid point. The President, having heard the meeting, of any body, will, of course, secure support for a certain way. That's not gonna be decided by the chairman on his own. In the end, that is also the outcome of a democratic process, with all these elements having to be weighed. I do not think that we should centralise the definition here, and that is not the spirit of the legislative proposal now before us, which list and criteria you then have to meet. We are offering the possibility, where we have exchanged here in the debate, that physical meetings are the starting point, but that, if that is not possible or if it is undesirable in a given situation because it leads to the structural absence of certain representatives of the people, you can discuss it digitally, provided that, of course, you meet the conditions that these digital debates must fulfil.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u102	In any case, I hear the Minister say that it is indeed not the city council that decides that. It is clear that it is not a matter of democratic decision-making, so to speak. That's one. The second point is that I am pleased that the Minister, who repeats it over and over again, is that the starting point is: if it can physically, it must also be done physically. In answering the questions, the Minister left that out for me and said that it may also be that some people think that the role of example should be followed, and so on. I'd like to be clear about this. Mr Kox's question was also aimed at this. In my questions, I have explicitly quoted the passage in the explanatory memorandum which states that the starting point should be that you should, if you can, do it as well. Is that what the Minister says, namely: that is how you should read it and forget that I have included other things in the answer to the questions? I'd like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u103	I would not forget what else I have said, because that is all part of it. I have said this explicitly in the context and against the background of the fact that some people feared that this would be some sort of temporary legislation which would then automatically become the new standard. The starting point remains: physical meeting. But it may be that because of the negative consequences of physical assembly, especially if you keep that off against the advice of the RIVM about staying at home, because you can be in a situation of quarantine, democracy can no longer function as it works. Then you have to take advantage of the opportunity to go digital. That is temporary anyway, so limited in time, and always linked to the advice of the RIVM. These, of course, restrict us at the moment in the way in which we have always discussed each other. This can lead to: with adjustments you can meet on, with a guaranteed safety for everyone who participates in it. In other places, however, it is physically impossible, or there is a disproportionate part of the people's representatives who are disadvantaged by it, so that the democratic process cannot proceed. In the 355 municipalities we have, the 12 provinces and the water boards, this can vary in all kinds of places. I have confidence in the subsidiary levels of government, in the sense that they can decide for themselves. This law offers them the opportunity to do so, but the starting point is important in that sense, because then one can return to the original situation of being physically present in a meeting after the temporaryity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u104	Finally, Mr Nicolaï, a brief explanatory question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u105	The question is: what is the starting point in the temporary situation? I am not asking for the starting point after that, because I think that the Minister and I agree that the starting point before and after the temporary situation is physical meetings. It's always been that way. Now there is a temporary situation. We give jurisdiction to the lower bodies. Does the Minister agree with me that if you use that authority, you should first see if you can do it physically, and if so, you will? If, however, it cannot be physically done, then that possibility can be used. That's a very clear question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u106	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u107	That is a very clear question and I can answer it very clearly. Of course you're gonna see if you can, but we don't have to play hide-and-seek. In a lot of places, considering the guidelines that are there right now, it's very difficult, or it just can't, to do it the way you did it. I have just given the example of the establishment of the meeting rooms of municipal councils and provincial states. They are sometimes not organized on the advice of RIVM. Of course you look at this, but in some cases it will mean that the answer is that it cannot be done in a responsible way. Then this temporary law offers the opportunity to do it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u108	We agreed on a maximum of three questions per interruption. There's gonna be a speaking time later. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u109	Let's talk about the President's role. The President's role in this temporary law does not change in relation to the role that the President has already played in the Municipal Law, the Province Law and the Water Authority Act. That is an important element, because for a moment it seemed to arise that the President could now determine everything. No, that part doesn't change. The only thing that changes is that this bill makes it temporarily possible to meet digitally. Mr Nicolaï's motion under letter D calls on the government, if the Chamber has not been able to assess the evaluation before 1 September 2020, to limit any extension from 1 September 2020 to the maximum duration of four weeks and to decide on a subsequent extension only after the Chamber has discussed the evaluation with it. This suggests that the considerations for an extension would be political considerations. That is not the case, because at the moment when there is no longer a need to comply with the distance standards on 1 September, which means that people should stay home as much as possible, there is also no basis to extend this law. Then it will automatically lapse. Recess is recess, but the Chamber can always meet to meet. In contrast to Mr Nicolaï's earlier input that the good example should be set and that there should always be a meeting if necessary, I find it a little odd to ask for four weeks extra respite, while I have motivated the date, because it is on the eve of the start of the new political season. It is therefore a very logical time to decide and use as much time as possible. But of course, if we can do that sooner, we are going to announce earlier to decide whether or not it should be renewed. This is without prejudice to the fact that I consider the evaluation to be of great importance. I have also indicated this in the written reply. It needs to be started already to see what the experiences are, how things are in practice, even if things are not going well somewhere or if things in some places may go wrong in such a way that individual council members or statesmen consider their interests to be violated. Then we have to look at how we are going to fix it, because it will undoubtedly happen that somewhere not only the connection fails, but that once the rules of procedure or the supplement are not properly applied. That's all part of the evaluation. We try at the front, by offering that supplement to the Rules of Procedure, to ensure that that new way... I'm sure you've had that experience for a while, because you've been working with tablets for a long time, but I've experienced a few times over the past few weeks that I wasn't well connected, because it's just practice, how that works. I gave up the wrong password and I couldn't get in. But aside from that... We are going to evaluate that and we are going to inform the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u110	My motion is primarily aimed at ensuring that we do not find ourselves in a situation in which you have to make a decision and we are not yet ready, because we have not yet discussed it. That depends, of course, on when the evaluation is finished, and I do not know. The only thing I know is that you write that if the directives are still needed on 1 September, they will be extended. My motion doesn't say at all that we need more time. As soon as that evaluation is available, I think we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u111	What's your question, Mr. Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u112	My question is what the Minister sees as a problem when my motion would be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u113	I like the bill better, anyway. But I believe that Mr Nicolaï is now linking the evaluation to the extension of this law, and that is not correct. When evaluating legislation, it is customary to check whether it is good or not. The only reason why this law should be renewed after 1 September is that the RIVM's opinions, which are the basis of the measures taken, are still in force. That's the only reason. That's completely unrelated to the evaluation. We're doing that evaluation to see how that works in practice. That could serve for... Suppose in a while someone says "we like this so much" and there are calls from local authorities to make this possible permanently. Again, there is no reason at this time, either with me or otherwise, to do so. You measure in that evaluation what went well and what went wrong. That is separate from the extension, let me say for the sake of clarity, because there is only one thing that matters: that is not a political decision, it is a decision that is directly the result of the package of measures recommended by RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u114	I am very pleased with this answer, because we are now finally getting to the point where we differ. In my view, there are two questions in this evaluation. Is it still necessary to continue with such an arrangement? And the second is: after the evaluation, do we perhaps come to the conclusion that we should continue with a scheme similar to the one we now have, but no longer as formulated in this scheme? And that's what it's all about, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u115	Yeah, but then we'll come back to the Chamber, of course. Because, look, if there really was to be an amendment that would make it a different law than it is now, and what other RIVM opinions are on the basis of, then the government really has to explain why it is doing that and then you have a debate on it as well. I am now talking about the situation that the opinions of the RIVM in September would still be the same distance, stay home and so on as they are now. We all don't know if that's true. I hope not, but we don't know, which is why we take that into account. If so, then we can extend, then the ceterus paribus is the same conditions and can. If there are other changes that would require the law to be amended, then there will be an amendment and of course this will also be done through the Chambers, through the Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u116	You continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u117	Then there is Mr De Vries' motion with letter E, in which the government is invited, in accordance with the opinion of the Council of State, to repeal the Temporary Act on Digital Discussion et cetera on 1 June and to limit any extension of this Act with a maximum duration of four weeks. I have just said that the date of 1 September seems to me to be better, also because 1 June is quite fast and nobody knows what the flag will be like, what it will be like in practice. We do not know this now, of course, from 1 September, but this law, which is very much wanted by the local authorities, is just in force. Again, the principle remains: if you can do it physically and there's no need anymore, then you're just going to do it. But if we take into account that, in a bad scenario, we would have to go through with the measures in one way or another, then 1 June is very short notice. That also calls for a novelle, because I have to change it. In view of the fact that we would like this law to enter into force quickly, I must advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Members' questions and commented on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u118	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term of office and I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. The PVV Group is still of the opinion that the starting point should remain: to meet physically if possible, of course in compliance with the RIVM rules. However, we are now in a situation where a large part of the people's representatives do not want to come. I regret that it takes a law like this to get them going anyway. I'm not too happy about that. Of course, we will continue to follow the matter critically. But, yeah, it's gonna take a lot of pulling. Local authorities need to re-decide and decide. The PVV Group will therefore vote in favour of it, all in all. Then about the motions. We can go for the first motion, in part no. C, by Mr Nicolai, but not in favour of the motion on item No. D by Mr. Nicolaï. The Chamber can always meet, even if the Minister indicates that he wishes to extend. As regards the motion in part No. E van Otten: there's just a date in the law, so you'd need a novelle. So this motion is not really possible. In this case, I do not really think it is a good idea to ask for a motion to be put to the vote before we vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u120	I have a question for Mrs Faber. It has also said in the second term that a large part of the people's representatives at provincial and local level are some kind of cowardice who do not dare or do not want to, and that this law forces them to become active. That's how I understood it. On what data does Mrs Faber base such an image? I have a very different view, namely that people, including representatives of the people, want to follow the advice of the RIVM and that they sometimes feel limited in the exercise of their democratic function. Digital meetings could be an outcome in some places, but that has nothing to do with unwillingness or that they would be too cowardly to assume their responsibilities. What is Mrs Faber basing herself on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u121	I have a very different picture, but Mr Koole had already understood that. It is true that, even in compliance with the rules of the RIVM, one can still deliberate physically. That's what we're doing here, isn't it? Here in this house we have 75 Members and each group has sent a Member. It's a fantastic deal here. We can just meet and decide here, so it's okay. We have a part of the senators fortunately most of the senators, otherwise we would not have been able to find here prepared to come here from all over the country, also to sign just their signatures. As you know, I am also active at local level. There's a whole different sentiment there. I understand when someone says my partner, or a family member or anyone else, is in quarantine, so I can't come. Of course I can understand that. But it's not like you can't get a quorum because a very large group is sick, weak and nauseous. There is a possibility to arrive at a quorum and a physical meeting. I think we should just come. 'Cause the people in the care department, I've just mentioned it. 'Cause they don't always have protective clothing at their disposal. They have to go and they just go. I think that is very good, because they are not only threatened in terms of health, but also mentally. Imagine that. I talked to a doctor. This is what I was told. He was in a ward with 30 corona patients and there were just a few deaths every day. That's terrible! You have to imagine what that does to you mentally. But a doctor like that's fine. I can have deep respect for that. And here are members in a very safe environment not even... Yes, we do come here, but there are people at local level, where a very safe situation can also be created, who do not come. I can't understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u122	I'm going back to Mr Koole. I think he wants to ask a second and final question in his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u123	The appreciation for the people in care is of course great for everyone, for me too, for our party too. That's not the point. There's no question about that. What is also beyond doubt is that there can be a whole discussion about technology and whether or not there is a quorum. My question concerns the observation or the accusation, I would almost say, of Mrs Faber to a large proportion of the representatives of the people at provincial and local level. She says that they do not want to and are actually too cowardly to fulfil their democratic functions. That's not based on anything. She tastes a sentiment, but it's not based on anything. It's just hineininterpreteren. I would like to ask Mrs Faber to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u124	Of course, I am not going to go back to that. Everyone here in the Chamber knows that I will not get back to it as soon as I come up with such a statement. Yeah, I think it's a well-known fact. I would like to point out to Members that you made a promise when you accepted a seat or you swore. You have sworn in it that you will be faithful to the Constitution and to the rules. Those rules also say that you come together and that you come to decide and reflect. That's all in there. If you then later, during the game I'll say, find out you can't meet that, just give your seat back to someone who will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u125	Mrs Faber just said, in the event of interruption, that the risk of coalition push-through at local level is increased by that digital meeting. Now I can speak from my own experience: I am in a city council of 29 people, in a fraction of 14 people. Six cartel parties have 15 seats there. We are given the same speaking time with 14 seats as a party with 1 seat there locally. Even in physical meetings, that's just decided. So there's always that risk in physical meetings, right? That doesn't necessarily get bigger with this law, does it? Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u126	I disagree. Mr. Van der Linden is a lucky man when he says he gets as much speaking time in his congregation as other parties. That's to be praised in your congregation, that's special. But you see at the local level the image that the coalition always pulls together. It always is. Then you see the game. Anyone here who has any political experience, you absolutely must not see that I mean that negative to you, know how the game is played. He simply knows: the coalition crawls together and dualism does not exist. It's just a fact that deals are being made. You're always talking about the cartel. Well, there is. Or are you suddenly saying that that cartel doesn't exist anymore? The cartel exists and agreements are just being made. Maybe there's an exception once in a while. I make a nuance, that's history. But well, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u127	Let me return to your speech, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u128	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I understand that you want to conclude this debate quickly. Now, to be honest, I'm a little out of it. You just see in practice that the coalition gets together, makes deals and makes sure that the coalition agreement is rolled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u129	Mr Van der Linden, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u130	Let me clarify my anecdote. My group has 14 members and has the same speaking time as the one-seat political groups. I don't think that's a good thing. I hope you share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u131	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u132	My question was more: is the risk of these cartel games, on which I believe we agree, increased if this law is passed? I don't think that's part of current politics, and it has to be different. But that doesn't get any bigger if we can meet digitally, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u133	That question can be answered yes or no, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u134	I've already indicated it's getting bigger, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u135	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Finally, I shall go to Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u136	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister. I have a few more questions. My first question concerns the evaluation of this temporary law, which he is talking about. But when will the Minister inform the two chambers of his evaluation? And what is to prevent the Minister from extending for four weeks each from 1 June? 'Cause he says, "I have to keep going back and forth, and that's hard, so just until September 1st." But do you suggest that in May conditions improve greatly, then there will still be a prospect of not being required by this law? As a result, I would ask the Minister, on the basis of which findings the government actually determines that this law will not be renewed. That is not quite clear to me. Then the minister talked about the novelle needed to change the law. Yeah, well, an emergency law might ask for an emergency novel. That was more of an advice. Finally, can the Minister undertake to consult the House of Representatives and the First Chamber on possible further extensions by 30 October at the latest if this temporary law is to be extended? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u137	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u138	Mr President, thank you to Members for their input, even in the second term. As regards the findings on the basis of which the law should be extended, I have just indicated that this is only on the basis of the findings of the RIVM, i.e. the situation in which we find ourselves. That is precisely what I am saying to make it clear that this is not a law that starts as a temporary law and ends as a final law. This is a law with an end date, and that law can only be extended if the circumstances in which we are now in and which are the reason for this emergency law still exist. That's the answer to that question. Mr De Vries proposed making it 1 June. Then we have to change the law. It is precisely because of the principle that I have spoken in the direction of Mr Nicolaï that you do not meet digitally if that is not necessary... What if it's all over in two weeks? I don't think that's very likely, but what if it were? Then there is no need to meet digitally. This is a practical solution for the local directors, the decentralised directors, who have really asked for it and who have said from the outset that it gives them the opportunity to meet properly in situations where this is not possible. You don't want to do that for such a short time that you have to make a new decision and extend it. There's also a recess in there. Normally there isn't a lot of meetings at that time, but you don't know if it is this year. So technically, the difference between June 1st and September 1st is not that big. Let me now turn to the evaluation. That evaluation is to see how this has worked, as I have just pointed out in the direction of Mr Nicolaï. If things get out of there in the meantime... We're not gonna evaluate until the end. We're gonna follow how it's all going. We hear the first experiences of the Association of Warriors and the VNG. Should it be necessary to adjust, and should it really lead to a legislative change, I cannot imagine that now, then we will of course come back. That's the spirit. But the rules of order and practice can simply be adapted at local level. If we can improve things, we're not gonna wait till October. We are going to do this simultaneously and in parallel, especially in order to offer decentralised administrative bodies the helping hand to deal with this in a good way. This is totally new to everyone. We ask you to do something that is new for many municipalities, provinces and water boards. If it appears that the situation in the Netherlands is still such that on the basis of the advice of the RIVM an extension of the law is necessary, then we will of course inform the Chamber about it and then there is also the possibility for a debate. That is a new weighting moment, but I have just indicated that this is not a political weighting moment but a weighting moment based on the advice of the RIVM. This also guarantees the finiteness of the law. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the Chamber once again for the speedy handling. I would also like to thank all the organisations that have contributed to this law in an extremely rapid way, for the municipalities, provinces and water boards that have been involved, but also the officials who have done so, because this is not something we do on a daily basis. The government is sometimes known for being all poachy. In some times, you can, but if there's a crisis, you have to act differently. So I am very content with the efforts of many to come to this temporary emergency law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u139	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u140	I heard the minister say, "Finally," so I thought, "Maybe he'll close up." That's what you were supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u142	Okay. We still have the question about this evaluation. When are we gonna know anything about that? That is, of course, essential. My motion was designed to respond to this and not so much to the technical question of whether we should extend because of RIVM and so on. The question is: should we extend this scheme? This is, of course, linked to what has emerged from that evaluation. It may well be that there is a feeling in municipal councils that there is not enough debate and that the political debate is completely watering down. When do you think that something can be communicated to the Chamber so that we can take this into account in our deliberations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u143	I'm a little repeating now. An evaluation is normally meant to check whether or not you're going through with something. These are really two trajectories. I just argued that. This is a route that ends on 1 September, unless the situation is the same. That evaluation is meant to see how it went. It is necessary for ourselves to be able to adjust where it is possible or to help where it is necessary. Of course, after the end of the project, let's say in September or at a later date if the measure is renewed, the final evaluation and review will be carried out, and the Chamber will be informed. So that's at least in the course of September. Should the measures be renewed on the basis of the RIVM opinions, it will be at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u144	Mr Nicolaï, second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u145	You're saying that's at least somewhere in the course of September. Why couldn't it be sooner? That's one. Two. There were several questions about the evaluation, for example from the CHU. They said... I hear Mrs Bikker saying "Christian Union." It's still teasing, but it's because of my age. The evaluation, including democratic control. It may well be that this evaluation shows that the instruments that have now been put in place do not work, but that we must continue with a similar measure. As of September 1st, you say, it's time to decide whether we're going to extend, yes or no. Then you're going to extend this rather than something that might need to be modified. That's essential, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u146	This is a special situation which I would also like to deal with in a special way. This law is necessary because the decentralised administrative bodies must be able to continue with what they have to do: to make good decisions in the interests of their inhabitants. When this situation is over, we're going to evaluate. Should there really be any change in the law or otherwise, I will come back on my own. But if that is not the case, we help and assist. We do this together with organisations such as the VNG, the Association of Warriors and the IPO. Then we'll just sort it out practically and we'll all take it into the evaluation. We simply want democratic decision-making to be able to proceed in a good way as quickly as possible. The Municipal Councils, Provincial States and the Water Councils are looking forward to the early entry into force of this law. I am prepared at all times to evaluate, when the calm has returned a bit. That is not so far away at all; that is in September, I indicated. If there is any reason to do so, if something special should happen which means that we cannot get out of this law or if anything needs to be changed, then I am prepared to come back to you. With regard to the publicity you spoke about, it is guaranteed in this bill. There is no doubt about that; there is no violence here against the public access to meetings. Otherwise, this law would really have a different character.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u147	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u148	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill in a moment. I understand that Mr De Vries wishes to put his motion to the vote under letter E before the vote on the legislative proposal. In the light of Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber may give its assent. Can the House accept Mr De Vries' proposal to vote first on his motion and then on the legislative proposal? That's the case. We shall then vote on Mr De Vries' motion in a moment and then on the legislative proposal. As far as the other motions are concerned, I propose, including the College of Seniors, to vote on the other motions in a subsequent sitting, since this does not prevent the implementation of this emergency law after the House has accepted them. Can the Chamber agree to that? Mrs. Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u149	It does not stand in the way, but if everyone can easily judge the motions, as far as I am concerned, there is nothing in the way of dealing with them, so that there is no need for a next meeting. But once someone says "I doubt," I withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u150	Then I'll consider that an order proposal. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u151	Mr President, I agree with Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-07-eerstekamer-10.u152	I would like to ask the House whether all the groups can vote on the other two motions immediately after the legislative proposal, namely those of Mr Nicolaï under the letters C and D. That's the case.
