ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	We shall continue with the debate on the General Political Reviews and I shall give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna sweep up a few more questions that stayed in the previous session. What is the Cabinet doing in the supplementary social package for 45-plussers? The package is aimed at everyone, including older workers. Should an older worker become unemployed, he or she would also have to go from work to work and provide services. We know that older jobseekers benefit above average from the services specifically provided by UWV, I say to Mrs Van Brenk. This is because, unfortunately, they often have a bad or moderate opportunity to resume work. They will be given more personal guidance there. The development advice that was originally available only to 45-plussers is now available to everyone, but this does not alter the fact that older workers can still use it. Then there was a question from Mr Heerma about Big Pharma, but it has to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	I would like to take a moment to look at the concerns we have expressed about the problem of joining the queues. This certainly applies to older unemployed people. That's why I was so surprised by the new sound from the Malie Tower, from VNO-NCW. The lady, who is new, said: people should not be unemployed at all; they should be helped from their existing jobs straight to another job. I thought, "Yeah, that's it." We should all want that. So my question is what the cabinet is going to do to facilitate that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	The whole cooperation, including with VNO-NCW, is aimed at doing so. All the things that I just mentioned "What is the role of the UWV?" What is the role of municipalities? It's all about that, specifically the service at the UWV. Then it's very helpful that VNO is advocating this. In fact, I did not think that the previous President was against this either, but I understand that the new President puts an extra accent on that. This has only been taken into account, but I do not believe that it will lead directly to all kinds of additional measures. This was all we were doing to them. It's obvious to us that it doesn't matter if you're 20 or 50 when you're out of work. For everyone we want to see how you can make a contribution in a working life from your talent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	I'm glad to hear it doesn't matter to this Prime Minister. That's the way it's supposed to be. But the rest of the world still does. A lot of older people have trouble getting started, because that age limit is there and a lot of companies are shortsighted. I am therefore concerned because the Council of State says that they lack a directing function and a good plan of action in the cabinet's plans. I just want to know whether this criticism of the Council of State is being taken to heart and whether we can expect these things from this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	We already did. I didn't agree with that criticism from the Council of State. The development advice that originally applies only to 45-plussers is now available to everyone. Maybe I can add one more thing to that. Many people are following this debate, including employers. The advantage of a somewhat older employee who hires you is twofold. One is a lot of experience. It is no longer afraid of the first major crisis that can occur in a company. Some older people are usually used to dealing with that, more than young people with less experience. And two, it leads to flow, because someone over 50 doesn't keep working with you for 40 years. Probably retires in 10, 15, 17 years. I never understood why employers do not prefer older workers. It is often a question of pay, that they are a little more expensive, but that weighs so much against the fact that people have so much more experience! So let them do so, and let us also take advantage of this debate to emphasise once again how important older workers are, also to employ them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	In conclusion, I think it would be a good thing to correct the Prime Minister, because there has been a very clear study in which older workers were willing to pay less, but they have not yet been accepted. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister will also take away the prejudice that they are all much more expensive, for the viewers at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	Not more expensive. No, of course not. On average, employers always care that a somewhat older employee with more years of service wants a higher initial salary. That is, of course, one of the reasons why people are wondering: do you have to do that? Mrs Van Brenk is absolutely right that it is not at all a fact that it always is. She is absolutely right about that, so it is good to correct that. Secondly, however, there is a great deal to be said about this. I would have promised to come back to Mr Heerma's question on the European pharmaceutical strategy: when will it be ready and when will there be more information? It has now been announced by the Commission for the fourth quarter. We checked it out. So I expect it to be there before Christmas and then we will give a cabinet juice appreciation as soon as possible. In this context, we have taken the initiative to send a paper together with 17 other Member States to the Commission in which we do three things. One. Emphasise the urgency of the approach. Two. To express the desire to be as concrete as possible in the actions. So we would like not only to see views, but also really concrete points. And three. We ask that it be done in close cooperation with the Member States, so that the Commission makes use of the knowledge, experience and infrastructure of the Member States. As I said earlier, I would like to have bilateral and multilateral contacts with the Commission and other Member States, both politically and administratively, at many levels, specifically to discuss and promote the issue of access to medicines. I think that was an answer to the question of concrete timing. Maybe I can talk about that privacy leak with regard to the broadcast of Nieuwsuur last night. Parliamentary questions were also asked by the SP. I would therefore like to ask Mrs van Kooten-Arissen, for the sake of shortness, if I may refer to that now, so that I do not have to read this answer now. I think it would be more appropriate to answer these questions first. Mr. Chairman. There were two more cases from the first period of a somewhat larger scale. The first was the counter-budget, but perhaps even earlier the issue came across from work to work. I would like to address the issue of work-to-work. Among other things, Mr Heerma and Mr Asscher have drawn attention to this. I'll start with a few facts first. The cabinet makes 1.4 billion available for an additional social package, as is known. The aim is to help coherently the economy as a whole, employers and employees, adapt to the changing situation. Not everyone who loses their jobs will find their own way back to work. An essential part of that package is therefore an additional amount of over 600 million for additional guidance from unemployment to work or from work to work and for services provided by municipalities with the aim of ensuring that people continue to participate in society. Other means are also provided for regional mobility teams and additional crisis services in the region. We will also ensure that there is a job agreement, an incentive to keep people in the employment agreement that is already there, involved in the labour market. For some workers, training or retraining is necessary in order to stay at work or find a job again. Therefore, there is also a great deal of attention to support and guidance in reorientation into the labour market, financing retraining and measures to support workers and the unemployed in all these steps, in cooperation with all stakeholders. Employers and the social partners at the collective level have the lead role to play in providing guidance to workers in the first phase, the stage before they are unemployed. The cabinet and, in particular, the social partners are therefore discussing the elaboration of the supplementary social package, which is not yet entirely around the agenda, the aim of which is to help as many people as possible to get a job or to keep their jobs. Next week, this will also be discussed with the Chamber in the context of the debate on the third aid package. The starting point is to arrive at a coherent approach so that jobseekers can see a clear perspective on employment as soon as possible. Mr Asscher really wants to go a step further. I do not think we are getting all the way out of it today, but I would like to see if we can perhaps come a long way today, even as a way of getting to the debate next week. In itself, we agree with Mr Asscher that employers must do their utmost to work together with employees to move from job to job, at least to a new job when the old job is really unpreservable. The whole accompanying package is intended for this purpose: space for development advice for retraining or further training, but also for guidance in reorientation. If Mr Asscher were to say that he wants 100% guarantee, I think this is complicated. A new job is a shared responsibility of both employer and employee. There may of course always be circumstances which unfortunately do not succeed or fail to do so immediately, but yesterday I heard in the interruptions in Mr Asscher's term I believe that Mr Heerma may have some room for manoeuvre. I think I have more clearly what Mr Asscher wants. Employees can sometimes benefit from investing a little longer in training, because this leads to a better job or because they would like to switch fields. It will therefore not always be realistic for an employer to pay in full in such a case, while the employee no longer works there. But an effort obligation is timely. After all, the cabinet, like you, wants to maintain employment as much as possible. This will also be something for consultation with the social partners on the further design. Then we are looking at a commitment from the old employer to hopefully a new employer that will probably have to be done in sectors where a shortage of people is now supported by the government and, of course, with the support of those involved. So I'm going to find out if it's possible to come up with an effort obligation in which both the old employer and the new employer, if any, have a role to play in this, also looking at sectors where deficits are supported by the government and, of course, by those involved. I think that this can be a direction and that we need to park this point now, because I suspect that we are not getting out of it entirely today. We will continue to puzzle about the debate that will take place next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	I see Mr Asscher and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you for this response. It was clear to me that all kinds of measures are being taken and that money is being set aside for the purpose of helping people to get back to work. The change I am advocating is also a real change in social security, triggered by the crisis, and it is forcing this to happen at that first stage. My experience from the previous crisis I have sat around a lot with people who had become unemployed, and not only the elderly.... is that it is so terribly difficult to intervene as an individual and to find those big pots of money. And whether it's the municipality or the UWV, the damage is already there, for the person himself and for the family, but also for our economy. You can also turn that around and give an employee a right, a claim, a certain guarantee. If it is shown that this particular job can really no longer be there, then the employee should have the guarantee that the current employer, supported by the government, will accompany him or her to a new job, so that he or she is not out of contract and does not need a benefit at any given time. Then you would achieve a number of very nice things, which could perhaps stand still even after the crisis. You're gonna stop that emotional thumping. You're gonna stop that blow for the economy. You prevent damage, even to how our economy as a whole functions, and you keep people at work. That fits very well with this kind of economic crisis. Here's what I know. If you don't write it down and force it hard now, then they're intentions and the paper is patient and there's a kind of dance around the money pot, where all institutions with very good arguments say "give it to me; I'll take care of it," but then that employee loses his claim. So I wish there were some elements in it. It can't be non-committal. So in all those places where they say "gosh, do your best," I say, no, it's got to be a tough claim. Two. I realize very well that a small employer has to save his company; that was in Heerma's question. That will have to be supported. That will therefore also require funding to help. Three. It is indeed a responsibility in which you will be dealing with wage costs during re-training, wage costs for someone while he is still employed and wage costs for where he will be employed afterwards. So the government will have to invest in that too. I think you're gonna be cheaper in the long run, but you're gonna have to take care of it now. Finally, there was the question: yes, but there are no 100% guarantees for everyone, are there? If someone doesn't want to, it stops. That's true now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. It's the reversal that matters to me. We're in a bit of a hurry: in two weeks the package will end. And I really want to try to achieve something right now for a huge group of people who would otherwise end up in that benefit, with all the social consequences that that would have. It doesn't really have much to do with what's going on in those political reviews, except that it fits my vision of how the government should take care of people. So my question is: is it possible for this cabinet to discuss it as a hard claim? Is the cabinet also prepared to allocate the money there, so that it ends up with that employee, which supports that small employer, and to organize it around it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	Yes. Thanks for the explanation too, because it helps. I think there's another hole, but it might get smaller. In terms of intent, I think we agree, namely that it should not be non-binding. I get that. We need to look at the financial side; I understand that too. In terms of direction, we're thinking the same way. The tricky thing remains for me the following. In the end, there is one element in Mr Asscher's response, namely that guarantee, which I really think we need to go further. Because what I would see as complicated at this point in time, but we need to talk about that further, is that you say to an employee, if you cooperate, you will never lose your current income from that job. That's what you're saying. That is a very far-reaching commitment. I understand this direction, but if you put it down so hard, I understand from Mr Asscher, from his or her own cooperation, so that's what's good about it, then it's a very fundamental choice you're making. I understand that Mr Asscher wants to make it, but I do not quite know whether we can now see it in this form. We really should talk about that. That debate will, of course, be there next week, so I took all the notes. Mr Koolmees has done the same and I suggest that we think about it for a while. But at the heart of the matter, I still find it difficult, because in fact it is an almost one hundred percent guarantee, such as: if you cooperate, you will not enter the WW. That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	I am in favour of a far-reaching change, but perhaps I should mention the argument. We're in an abnormal situation, where we're all going to spend almost 100 billion, with our support, to help companies keep people in the service. So then you may, I think, expect something back, not only from an individual company, because that is what I really understand, namely, to do the utmost to keep people in service. That's why the firing ticket was so good. If keeping in service really doesn't work, you can expect more than the general "doing your best" to keep people at work. So it is also an extraordinary economic situation in that respect. Two. You can see in Belgium and Germany that the NOW scheme is linked to the employee, that people also take you to another job. I understand that there are some drawbacks too, but there are some examples of how you could do it at the moment, and I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to the following: see it as a moon shot to use that ugly metaphor to see how you really want us to deal with people. You work somewhere and you do it well. Then the government closes your cafe, because the virus causes one-and-a-half meters. That's all happening out of your hands. It would be wonderful if we set up our social security in such a way that you didn't say, "There's a benefit. We'll talk to you. You can develop yourself." No, help people, hold them, come through together and keep them working. This will also be essential for the resilience of our economy. That's what I'm asking the cabinet. I understand that we do not have that arrangement here with three decimals, but in my view this is the time to enforce that change; also in your direction, but also in the direction of the social partners themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	I understand that you have to be careful that it isn't just a well-meaning commitment, like: "We're doing another course and, well, what a pity, you're going into the WW now." Certainly now there is additional reason to worry and to take care of the people that this happens to us. At the same time, unemployment will rise. The number of job vacancies will decrease if unemployment rises. These are usually communicating vessels. A commitment to a guarantee is something other than a real commitment to an effort. I think we should look at that further. Mr Asscher also cites the Belgian example, but also the Belgian example is where unemployment eventually rises. You can't leave people in orbit endlessly, because there's simply nothing else. They won't be zombie companies, they'll be zombie jobs. I think that, in the end, this is also a risk to the adaptability of the labour market and to the number of jobs available at all. So at the individual level I understand him and at the level of the labour market I understand him as well. But his obligation to achieve results is really very fundamental. This is indeed a moon shot. I'm gonna run off on that. We really need to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	Finally. If you see how the package has now been designed, with all the intentions I have mentioned, then my concern is that the reverse can happen. The firing ticket's out. Employers know that this aid is being phased out. Especially with all the gloomy messages, this can be understood as a sign to reorganize and fire people. The social partners still have no idea how they intend to shape this. The Prime Minister just said it carefully: they haven't come out yet. The reality is, of course, a little louder. And then it is essential to now sound certain that the employee has a claim, otherwise it will not succeed. That's what it's my job to do. I understand that we are not getting out of that now, but I am going to ask the Chamber for a ruling to move in that direction. I just want to know that I'm not gonna end up in a swamp of good intentions next week. As far as I am concerned, there is too much at stake for all these workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	I'll see if the Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	I was just talking to Mr Koolmees. The conversation with the social partners about this... I'm not going to go over it, but I'd think this would be the most feasible thing for the moment. If there's a motion on the warranty, let's see how we relate to it. But it'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. Mr Heerma, is this the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	I think it is about my answer in which I referred to the answer of Parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	Can we do this, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	I understand that Mr Heerma wants to continue with this, so I will give him a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	I doubted whether I would ask the question, because the Prime Minister, while Mr Asscher sat down, seemed to say half muttering what I wanted to ask. But I'm going to do it explicitly. An effort obligation can also be very little. An A for bet and yet in the WW, can be an easy exit. At the same time, Mr Asscher is looking for something that can also go wrong if it is a 100% guarantee that you cannot deliver. I also mentioned this yesterday in the debate. I think Mr Asscher is looking for something close to that. I think there's a debate next week. I indicated yesterday that the social partners have a crucial role to play in bringing this about. The UWV and the municipalities specialise in the situation that people are already at the benefit window, but you want to avoid that. Can Minister Koolmees, between now and next week's debate, table with employees and, above all, employers to agree that it is more than a ten to bet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	Yeah, anyway, there's a meeting planned between Koolmees and Wiebes and social partners. This section of the stenogram, as the President would say now, is clearly part of the discussions there. I'm looking at Asscher's body language right now. I don't want to interpret it, but it can be helpful for what Heerma said about the 10 for stick and the 1 for result. I understand that concern, too. That's why I was looking for that ugly Dutch sentence. A guarantee limit and an effort obligation is something other than "an effort obligation, point'. But don't mind my words. Everything that has been discussed here, Koolmiese is going to discuss it even more constructively and Wiebes is going to discuss it with social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	However, I would like to ask a brief question about safeguarding privacy in the corona tests. I have just been informed that the SP and GroenLinks have jointly asked parliamentary questions. That is good, and I agree with that. But it's gonna take three weeks for them to answer. I want a commitment from the Prime Minister that he will at least make a firm effort to ensure that privacy is guaranteed from now on, as soon as possible. It is incredibly important that people start testing when they have complaints. If they are tested, they must be able to be assured that their privacy is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	Here you are with the fact that you need access to that data. That's just crucial. But that's got to be careful. That is why there is a non-disclosure declaration and one cannot simply look into the files, let alone share it. According to that broadcast, it turns out that it did happen sometimes. The G.D.D.'s on top of that. The employees are trained so that they stay sharp. If violations are detected, there will be consequences. In the extreme case, even dismissals can follow if there is no plausible explanation. Now that I'm looking at it, I don't think there's much more you can do. In the end, you want people to have access to that data and keep to good behavior. That would be an initial response, but there will be a comprehensive response to the questions of SP and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	Finally, we have already talked a great deal about this in implication: the counter-budget of GroenLinks, SP and the Labour Party, for which first of all we appreciate. That's just a lot of work and it happened again, so that's good. For 9 billion in choices other than the Cabinet. The good news is, if you make 9 billion different choices than the cabinet, we'll make 291 billion the same choices. So that's very nice. So about 3% is different. There are a few things in it that you say: that goes beyond that 3%. The charges really go up, with about 6.6 billion. Think of the business and the wealth. Some of the people are also going to pay more taxes. Anyway, those are other choices. As you can see, the burden increase is being deployed in a very targeted way. I understand that from the political priorities of these parties. We will certainly be discussing issues such as salary development and working conditions. Anyway, thank you for the counter-budget. I think that various points have been raised in the debate. I'm just gonna walk by. We are going to talk about education, care and social security. We've already talked about transfer to companies. The only thing that isn't really being discussed anymore is development cooperation. That's where an extra 0.5 billion goes. That wouldn't be our choice. But that is the only point I no longer see in the future of this debate. The rest of us are all gonna come back one more time. If it's all right with you, Mr. President, I'd like to change the order and do the rentals, the housing market, first. No, it's more than an "A" for work. I heard. Such a stoker in class. I hear Mr Asscher saying: they are not my words. All right, let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	Before you do that, there is an interruption by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	I think the Prime Minister is getting over it very easily. Yesterday, no, it was the day before yesterday that the government had the King say that we are not cutting back at this time and that we are helping vulnerable people in vulnerable regions who are struggling. But the government is cutting back on development cooperation. For next year it has been slightly corrected, but then the budget falls even less than in the discussion we had last year. That was an historic low. There is, therefore, a cut in the budget. I find it a little embarrassing that you let the king say that we are not cutting back, while the cabinet behind the scenes is actually cutting back on the poorest people in this world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	Yes, but that also has to do with the specific design of that budget, which is linked to national income. If national income falls, then of course something happens there. In conjunction with the advice of the International Affairs Advisory Council and by looking wisely at how the costs are spread over a number of years, it has indeed succeeded in preventing damage. But, of course, the fact is that national income is smaller. Then I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mrs. Ouwehand. No? Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u33	Then I'll go to the rentals. I've got all these very good facts, but maybe I can get to a few business points right away, without endlessly convincing you of our great policy. Firstly, there was, of course, a discussion yesterday about the increase in rents in the free sector. It is now limited to the maximum inflation plus 2.5%. We believe that the overstretched housing market justifies such an intervention. That's what the Cabinet now has in mind. You notice in the Chamber the desire to see if there is still room to limit the rent increase even further in the current circumstances. This is also in line with the announced initiative law of the Lodewijk Asscher group, to take a further step here. But I thought that this point was made yesterday by Mr Klaver in an interruption at Dijkhoff of the VVD. As far as we're concerned, there's room to talk about this. The Minister of the Interior will involve that further in the examination of the bill, but we will look into it. Of course, affordability for tenants is of great importance, but at the same time the landlord must be allowed to continue to perform his or her task properly. I thought Dijkhoff also called attention to the vegetable farmer who stops and buys an apartment for retirement. What does it mean before that? And how do you avoid that, of course, you have to look at the fact that houses are being withdrawn from the rental market because they say: then it is attractive to sell the house and invest the money differently? That's the kind of thing we need to take a look at. Of course, this does not occur with the larger landlords, but with the landlord with a smaller scholarship, with a few properties. Of course you do. The viewer will think, "Well, I wish I had!', But these are often retirement provisions for those who worked in the middle class and have now stopped. If we can involve all of that, then I am not going to commit to what it is going to be, inflation plus x, but then it will be puzzled further, to use that word once more, towards the Home Affairs budget. That would be my thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u34	Is this it about the rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u35	At this point. Shall I do all the rental points?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u36	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u37	There was a second point, the landlord levy. For that, of course, thinking does not stand still. We understand the desire of the Chamber to continue the discussion about the landlord's tax, but this is obviously more complicated, because it also has budgetary effects immediately. I think that is something that needs to be addressed in the General Financial Reviews and the treatment of the Tax Plan. You want to see how you can create space for all these tasks for the government, but you also want to look at the budgetary impact and its coverage, because that money needs to be covered. I don't have that cover right now. I understand from the counter-budget that it's a lot easier, but that's a cover that we're not immediately jumping over. So we really need to talk about that. I don't know if it's coming out, but let's try to make an extreme effort to get to the General Financial Reviews and the Tax Plan to see if there's anything left to do with that landlord tax. That would be a concrete response to these two points. I'll finish this point about living. There are a few other questions, but there aren't that many anymore. In particular, Mr Heerma has discussed this in detail and raised a number of points. Among other things, a greater role of the cabinet in the housing of the people has been called for. There has even been a request for a separate ministry with a budget as legal instruments and a note on spatial planning and housing. GroenLinks asks for housing that is less or not based on market forces. I think these are questions that reflect on the political and administrative structure of this policy area. The establishment of such a ministry will no longer be something for this cabinet. That will be something that is at issue in a formation. Of course, it is the responsibility of the government to encourage people to live fine and affordable. We also feel that responsibility and that is why a great deal has been done in recent years to strengthen supply and demand in both purchase and rental. But there's really gonna have to be more. We're open to ideas. When it comes to affordability, you should look at elements such as the legal right to rent reduction for around 260,000 low-income tenants in an expensive corporation home. Then you're talking about a 160 million-dollar financial seizure that's in the cabinet proposals. There are a number of cabinet proposals. Think of the maximum rent increase for corporate homes on inflation, the transfer tax at 0% for start-ups, etc. But it's also about availability, of course. How do you make sure there are enough homes? During the previous financial crisis, construction stopped and there was a delay. By the way, it has walked back in with some 75,000 rentals in 2018 and 2019. It gets forgotten sometimes. That's a real build record, but that's not what we're here for. Work is continuing on the basis of agreements with Aedes and the VNG to quickly build the 150,000 homes for which a tax discount has been applied for. That is also about a very large volume. For example, we send on all kinds of chessboards on sufficiently affordable homes, suitable for everyone. That's not enough. So more needs to be done. Once again, we are really open to ideas from others, but fortunately a lot is happening, even though this is still a pressing issue. Mr. Chairman. Those would be the questions in the area of the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u38	I have Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Azarkan and Mr Heerma. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u39	Thanks for the answer. That's very equestrian. In any case, there is room for further discussion about the landlord levy, but also about the substantial dampening of rent increases in the private sector. That's very good news for all those people who rent in the private sector. I'll hit another point. The Prime Minister says: we have to take into account people who have a cottage or two cottages for retirement provision. That capital increase idea, the idea that houses are there to make money with, is a big problem, because there are a lot of young people at the moment who can't find a place to live. So I want us to see how we can get away from that idea that you have a house to live in and a house to make money with. No, everyone in this country needs a place to live. At the moment there are not enough homes, also because people use homes as investment. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u40	But the place is inhabited, right? It's not empty, is it? Let's go back to my example of the vegetable farmer who stops and says: I sell the business and that gives me a certain amount of money; with a piece of loan I buy an apartment for that and I rent it. Doesn't that mean someone lives in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u41	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u42	Finally. I did not think I should say this to a Liberal Prime Minister, but I would like people in this country to be able to buy their own house. If a person who already has his own house takes another house, this will deprive young people of the opportunity to buy their own house. That worries me. I'd like to get rid of that. Of course it can be that people have a house they rent out. That's nice. Someone could live in it. But I see now that it is impossible for young people to get a house as a starter, especially in the big cities. That has to do, among other things, with the fact that there are people who own multiple houses. I don't think that's fair. I think we should change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u43	I get that. Strictly speaking, that would be in favour of getting a proposal from GroenLinks to move large-scale corporate housing to the market, because then you also have more properties for sale. But Mr. Klaver will... Sorry, I'm pulling this joke back, because this doesn't contribute to the good atmosphere, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u44	I would point out, on behalf of Mr Klaver, that reducing the number of social housing is not part of the plans that the left brings forward here. I want to challenge the Prime Minister to think of opportunities. We're having a huge crisis. Unemployment is rising. By investing really heavily in affordable homes now, for example by reducing charges, removing the landlord's tax is a reduction of charges, at least three things can be achieved at the same time. You can freeze the rents, you can help people get to work, you can do something about the huge housing shortage, and you can also do something about sustainability if you do it smartly. I do not think this is the right time to say that we should cover that. It's possible. There are proposals to reduce the burden of this cabinet without any justification. If you use part of that burden relief for this, you can be guaranteed additional jobs. I find myself in the fine company of Maxime Verhagen, who made exactly the same plea in his response to Princess Day. But here's really an opportunity we need to seize. If the Prime Minister were not sensitive to that argument, I would like to announce that the puzzle must also lead to a substantial reduction in the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u45	Yeah, but I'm not gonna guarantee that. I'm just saying we're willing to talk about it. On inflation plus 2.5%: we really want to weigh on that. So that's what we're gonna look at, I think, to see where we end up, but this point also requires cover. Mr Asscher seems to suggest cover. It may have been discussed a little earlier in this debate, but I would like to point out from the thought that the government must do several things at the same time, however important that aspect of that part of the discussion is. And with that, the cover is unsuitable. We'll just have to look more creatively if there's anything to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u46	Finally, Mr President. It's obvious that it needs to be covered. At the same time, this is likely to be an opportunity argument if 100 billion is spent on crisis measures. This is a very obvious crisis measure. It wasn't just me. It is not just a wish of the Labour Party. That wish is much wider. It also allows you to pursue very clear societal goals. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister to look at it that way. I also understand that there is a need for puzzles when looking for cover. Two. We have already expressed the wish to make it not extra difficult for singles to qualify for an affordable rental house at this time. So I would also ask the Cabinet to consider withdrawing that proposal, because that is what the Prime Minister just said? Atmospheric.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u47	What proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u48	The single-penalty proposal of the Rutte III cabinet, which, for example, means that Miss Emma, who is single and wants to teach, is just not eligible for a social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u49	I'm just gonna take that down and take a look at it. Furthermore, I see the benefits of lowering the landlord's tax, but again, that has to be paid. We'll continue to look at it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u50	There were, of course, a lot of complaints yesterday to the Prime Minister about things that did not go well. Some of my colleagues have gone a long way in this respect, but we can really say that it has just not gone well with regard to the housing shortage of Prime Minister Rutte over the past ten years. In real estate we know one principle and that is: mass is slow. Real estate is just a lot of mass. If he looks back, does the Prime Minister think that he has done the best he can to ensure that we wouldn't end up in perhaps one of the biggest housing crises in recent years? How does the Minister look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u51	I've just outlined what, fortunately, has been realized in recent years and what plans are in the pipeline. But, strictly speaking, Mr Azarkan is of course right: there is more to be done here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u52	And what does that look like? You know, colleagues have also indicated that the direction of the government must be changed and that we have a Ministry of Housing... Certainly the Prime Minister's party has always been very reluctant to respond to this. Colleague spokesmen of the VVD say that the housing corporations actually have a lot of power. The housing corporations say: that's just in those stones; we can't do very much with that. Of course, we have talked for a very long time about the landlord tax. Well, it looks like it's coming out, but what else can the Prime Minister do to make sure that people are just gonna have an affordable home, that people don't have to wait 15 years for social housing? We have seen the example of someone who is working his ass off in care but doesn't have his own home and who, if he can go home, needs to rest somewhere upstairs at the parents' home. How do we ensure that the right to an affordable home is not only filled in in a few years, but much faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u53	Build, build, build. That is why I welcome the 150,000 houses that are now planned for the next five years. That is why I am pleased with what was achieved in 2018 and 2019: a building record. But that's not what we're here for. It's being worked on incredibly hard. The idea of a separate Ministry of Housing seems to me to be something for the formation. As Prime Minister, I can now reflect on that. I fully understand the added value of bringing together the direction of environmental vision and the direction of housing....................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u54	I'm concluding. I see that the Prime Minister is actually saying: for a real structural solution, you must be with someone else. Many people, experts in this area, have said that it is too little, that it leads to a huge shortage and to huge prices, that it means that people have to wait 15 years for a social rental house or that you can't find a home at all. For a group of Dutch people, they are excluded by discrimination if they can find anything. That's just not good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u55	But you're not gonna solve that with the creation of a Department of Housing. I'm not saying I'm against it, but it's not the only solution. It's not like suddenly, because that ministry is there, there's going to be massive construction. We, this cabinet, have taken a whole series of measures in recent years to get this construction going. You can actually see those volumes increasing now. There are also a lot of plans in the pipeline. But that will require more than just a structural change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u56	I think this is a special moment in the debate. The Prime Minister began this morning with a list of the subjects he wanted to discuss. Then he specifically said: and I may still be challenged by someone to look at the long term as well. This was answered by Mr Wilders, who declared somewhat caricatured everything that has happened in the Netherlands over the past ten years a horror. On this particular issue, however, we can agree that the problems have increased over the last ten years and that there has been a crisis in the housing market. Now the Prime Minister, Mr Delors, said ten or twelve years ago, when it came to this type of debate and the role of the government, yes, but I do not want to see the government as a lucky machine. Now yesterday, the chairman of the VVD Group called for a strong government. We are now discussing our vision of solving the crisis in the housing market. All kinds of structural proposals have been made to ensure that we simply start building 100,000 homes a year. Then the Prime Minister says, "Don't talk to me about that; you should talk to me about that in formation." I would like to challenge the Prime Minister to lay down what he said this morning at the beginning of his term here too. What vision does he have to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u57	Of course, I'd be happy to. Only that is a little separate from the responsibility of this cabinet. In what Dijkhoff put forward yesterday, there were actually three elements that claim to me, namely fair trade, a strong government and the question of how to become less dependent on abroad for your stuff and your energy supply. I think Mr Heerma is right: this is in line with a strong government. A strong government is not a big government, by the way. A strong government is a smart government, which can grow when needed. This has been necessary for the past six months, when we drew a lot more tasks towards us. When it is no longer necessary, she is also able to become slightly smaller, but to remain strong and smart. It's necessary. Earlier today, I set out what I believe are the three major issues for the next five to ten years. Where are the jobs? How do we keep this country safe? How do we ensure that in this country the inspirational context, which makes the Netherlands, remains? Therein is building, living, a crucial part. Where a job brings you the happiness of money, social contacts and developing yourself, a home, a home, a great degree of security and security brings you. If it's a home of its own, it can also help build up capital for later. It is also property for people who have their own home. It is therefore very important. I agree with Mr Heerma's speech in his first term that a much greater central government direction will be needed. You can already see how Ollongren and the cabinet fill it out. I think we need to deal with it much more jointly with provinces and municipalities. The idea is that they will eventually find the construction sites, but often it appears in regional or local politics that this is not possible and that too little is being built. That requires more national direction. I think that also fits in with the approach we have now put out with the environmental vision and also with how that is stuck to the whole housing market. That is necessary. I also see the need, I say to Mr Heerma, to have more central control over that. I also agree with him that the term 'people's housing' is actually a very nice term. I would even like to say here that we have two things to do if we want to get it done. One, if that housing crisis is further reduced, I think it is very important that the nurse, the policeman or the woman and the teacher do not have to go to Purmerend by train or bus when they work in Amsterdam. And another point: if we're gonna build more and we're gonna do that, fortunately, let's build nicely. In the 1930s there was beautifully built in the Netherlands, as in the post-war years, the fifties. But we have also seen what can go wrong if there is no vision of the quality of building. It's about building something that's not for 30 years, but for 100 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u58	I'm glad the Prime Minister is taking a few first steps here. I really don't think that Novi that's lying there is going far enough. This Minister has taken steps to bring it up, but that is not the point. I would like a reflection from the Prime Minister whether he can see that a Ministry of Housing can contribute to this direction with a real land-use planning and housing note, with both quantitative and qualitative objectives. It's about where we're going to build, what key projects are, whether we're actually building more residential-care complexes and so on. So are we going to look at it more compellingly as a state government towards the municipalities? This need is there, because now you often see that these kinds of projects do not come off the ground because a municipality can sell the land more expensive if very luxurious apartments are built on it. Does the Prime Minister see a role for this government? Do we therefore no longer have discussions in the coming months when it comes to this, and he will then call for the State to act as a lucky machine?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u59	In my opinion, I certainly did not use that term in the context of the housing market. In my party's statement of principle, we also talk about a strong government that is there when you need it and a government as market leader. As far as the housing market is concerned, this is also entirely the line that this cabinet has chosen over the past three years. There is as much as possible in collaboration with provinces and municipalities central direction to ensure that the right choices are made there. Of course, there is a big difference with the fourth note extra and that time. The amount of land available to build has not increased. So there are big issues. I would like to mention the question of urban integration and the question of neighbourhoods from the 20's and 50's which are less in terms of building quality than the beautiful neighbourhoods that were also realized in the last century. What all this means for total housing production must therefore be considered. It must certainly not be the case that people only look at what the municipality can earn with land by setting up expensive houses. That includes building for everyone. Personally, I am challenged by Mr Heerma........................................................................................................................................................................................... A third of all Dutch people live in a corporation house. That's a lot. However, that is not a cabinet policy, but Mr Heerma is challenging me and so I am now saying something about it myself. So I think you should also face these issues, so also the question of whether it is possible to get more people to buy something in a rental house, so that they are being punched out and that property becomes their own. We will all have to look at these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u60	There is an interesting element in that last answer combined with the Prime Minister's previous response. Apart from the fact that I personally do not find it a problem if police officers and teachers also want to live in Purmerend, it is not a problem...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u61	Not if they work in Amsterdam, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u62	Especially if you go through the North-South line, you'll be right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u63	Oh, he lives in Purmerend. I see Mr Dijkhoff pointing. I thought he lived in Bodegraven. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u64	This is also not very close to each other geographically. But if that teacher and that policeman want to rent that house in a city like Amsterdam, then there is also the problem. They can't buy a house at all and the properties that are sold are then offered for €1,900. There's no way to pay for that. If you want to solve that, the problem is not housing corporations that are too much in the social housing sector, but the problem is that they don't like anything in that middle-rent segment. So if these housing corporations can build with their social responsibility in the segment that is just above that social rental limit and they can focus on it, then you're going to close that gap between €700 and €1,900 more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u65	That's where the problem lies, of course. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u66	Does the Prime Minister consider that housing corporations should therefore take up this task of building for exactly the category he himself mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u67	First, you need to make good the analysis of why that segment is not built sufficiently. The market test can, of course, help; it also has that purpose. Mr Heerma also said something very true yesterday. He had a whole argument about the cooperative revolution. When I heard him make that speech, I thought: that's the CDA, that's the Christian-social doctrine. He also talked about public-law business organisations. Maybe then a small link to that argument: I did agree and disagree. I agreed with that part where he pointed to Alexis de Tocqueville and said: be careful not to destroy everything with too many detailed rules. At the same time, the argument also risks that, where the liberal movement in the Netherlands opts more for territorial decentralisation, it will lead to a more fundamental choice of functional decentralisation, with the risk of a loss of democratic participation. The same applies to the housing market. So you have to look very closely at how to ensure that the government can also play that role centrally through full democratic control, without falling into detailed rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u68	If Prime Minister De Tocqueville gets involved, he can have the debate too. The Tocqueville warns against this: if social parties can no longer assume their responsibilities and if everything is brought to that central government, then you have the risk that that government will take care of everything with minute rules. That's what we're in the middle of right now, so if we want to get rid of that with each other, give those social players their role to take that responsibility. So also from the point of view of a liberal looking at De Tocqueville is the answer that those housing corporations should have the duty to do so, instead of taking away that space, because the government has all come up with rules for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u69	No, listen. That's where the beautiful anecdote connects over De Tocqueville who was in America. He saw people sawing down a tree himself. He would have thought: in France they walk to the mayor and say "Mayor, a tree has fallen over the road; can you take him away?'. We note here with each other that government and local authorities have a joint responsibility, which is a risk; that was also in Mr Heerma's speech, and I recognize that from previous leaders of the CDA, from the Prime Minister under whom I was allowed to serve as Secretary of State, of Christian-social doctrine and of social enterprises. It is only extremely important that we also see the risk of too much functional decentralisation and that, if you are not careful, decision-making is taking place on the dark side of the street. If you want to seize power, you take your hand through the ghost. I quote Van Mierlo here on this point in the 1980s is really very important. In that we will have to keep the balance. Then you can still consult with the polder, also with the housing polder, but ultimately the decisions have to be made here, in the municipal councils or in the provincial states. It must remain democratically verifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u70	It is a very valuable debate, and I also support the idea of re-establishing a Ministry for Housing, I would say: VROM, but ultimately, of course, we will not get any further if we leave it to the question of how we should reorganise the government, which in itself is a useful exercise. In the end, it is about what the Prime Minister briefly said. He said: the problem is, of course, that no land has been added where we can build. Then the fundamental question that we have to decide today is whether or not that House Ministry will be there. What interests do we put first? Then you can choose. If you take a far-reaching approach to this system of Dutch intensive livestock farming, it will cost 2.6 billion over the next ten years. But it gets 6.3 billion a year. Then 10% of the land will be released. That's where you can make nature. Then you can build houses again, while retaining what people need. It's really nice when you have an apartment, but a little green around you is also nice. Then you get your climate goals. Those are the choices we have to discuss today, rather than having to think for months about the re-establishment of a public housing ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u71	Yeah, but there's a lot going on right now. This is a discussion that I parked in the formation and which I, challenged by Heerma, have provided with more reflection. I believe that the General Political Reviews give rise to this. But that does not mean that much is happening now and that choices need to be made now. They will also sometimes differ between political parties. It is true that there is much less land available than a few years ago, since a lot of people live in a neighborhood named after a note, namely a Vinex district. So it's also about redevelopment. Look at the issue of industrial sites in the Netherlands. In how many cities don't you see business areas that you say "well, that might need redevelopment"? Then there was often the risk that they said: we are issuing a new site instead of redevelopment of the old site. The upgrading, redevelopment and, where necessary, the re-establishing of high-level housing is thus also part of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u72	Yeah, sure. The Prime Minister has just outlined what could possibly be reconsidered and what we should all be talking about, but my question is: what is his choice? And what's the wait for? We can invest in solving a lot of problems at once. Dutch intensive livestock farming has been a dead end for 25 years. Help those farmers in a ten-year transition. Clear that land, make sure you meet climate goals, get your natural goals and solve that housing shortage. You can do it all at once. Why doesn't the cabinet choose that today? There's 20 billion on the shelf to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u73	That is a very fundamental question about our agricultural sector. I think that we in the Netherlands have made some fundamental choices with this cabinet. We have chosen to have a sector that produces low nitrogen and low emissions. This can be achieved both by having more circular new concepts as well as by more intensive companies that do so in a way that actually enables them to reduce those emissions. That's what I'm here for. I'm in favour of a strong agricultural sector. And I'm also proud that we have them in the Netherlands. It's one of the strongest in the world. It is faced with major issues such as nitrogen emissions, but there are also other issues relating to environmental taxation. It is being worked terribly hard to solve it and gradually transform it into a sector that is more intensive or more ground-bound, more circular, capable of dealing with these kinds of issues. In doing so, the main objective is to reduce this environmental tax, which is as small as possible. And you can. That's what's gonna happen. That's not gonna happen without sanding. I'll give you a little anecdote. The New Zealand Prime Minister said to me: what beautiful tractors you have in the Netherlands. I said to Jacinda Ardern, how do you know? She said: I saw those images of that agricultural exhibition in the New Zealand press. I said, "Agricultural exhibition"? I saw the footage, and that was the demonstration on the Malieveld. But it's beautiful stuff! And that is simply our agricultural sector. And then you think: yes, we are doing great in the Netherlands! And when we're angry; well, then we demonstrate. That's part of it. All right! But in the end, you're gonna get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u74	But the cabinet is doing what the past Cabinets have been doing for 40 years. I don't like quizes very much, so I'm gonna ask the question and give the answer right away. But does the Prime Minister know what the current policy has achieved? Zero natural targets achieved, a nitrogen crisis, zero climate targets achieved, zero animal welfare targets achieved, the drought, the groundwater level. Those heavy-duty agricultural vehicles will not even be able to drive on that agricultural land if we do not let hundreds of thousands of homes sink. They go down because the water level has to stay low for those heavy agricultural vehicles. Zero targets achieved! Are there any winners? No. In twenty years we have lost half the farmers and the cabinet continues with the same policy. No house can be built. How do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'd like to fight that anyway. In my view, this cabinet has converted a number of fundamental changes in terms of environmental pressures, the pressure resulting from nitrogen emissions from agriculture. And it's recognized there, too. This is done through innovation. If people really can't go on in one place, it's said: then you go on in another place. We don't want you to stop, but you might not be able to move on in that place. And if you do want to quit, we've made all kinds of agreements about how we can guide that. It is a question of gradually transforming the sector, which is already very successful and is already very innovative, and of creating a situation in which these effects in terms of environmental and social pressures are further reduced. And then there are different models. If you want to do so, you can do so on a somewhat larger scale, provided that it is indeed also through investments with limited pressure. Or you can do that by working more ground-bound or with more circular agriculture. You can do all that. People can make that choice. But we have made a number of fundamental choices with this cabinet. And they are also good for the further development of that agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u76	Perhaps first a small encore for Mr Rutte and Mr Heerma, who both turn out to be a big fan of De Tocqueville. The Tocqueville visited Algeria a few times around 1840 and wrote letters about it to his friend De Gobineau. In these letters he describes that he studied Islam and the Koran during his visit to Algeria. He says to De Gobineau: I have experienced no ideology, no religion more deadly to humanity than Muslims. But this is more like an encore. The housing business. The Prime Minister has failed enormously here for ten years as well when it comes to the number of houses? You can't insist that you've done well if you're short of 331,000 homes by 2020, can you? Then you didn't do it right. Those people who would live there, though they don't live on the street right now, but if you can't even have your own roof over your head... It's not gonna be more basic needs. I had already done it last year, but I've updated it now. In the meantime, how many people have been given housing under asylum status. So, what's next? Between January 2010 and August 2020, say Mark Rutte's ten years, according to the government 188,699 status holders are housed. According to the COA, answers from the Minister of the Interior to our parliamentary questions, it appears that 1.7 status holders per house are housed. This means that in those ten years of Rutte, 110,000 social rental homes went to asylum seekers. 110,000 social rental homes have gone to lucky finders. Speaking of discrimination. We talked about it yesterday and we'll talk more about it this afternoon. That is, of course, what discrimination is. That Dutchman often stands... I get emails from people, older people, young people, but certainly also older people who are just eight, nine years on the waiting list. Those eight, nine years are on the waiting list, and they see that, because that preference policy is still being applied locally, it is still used locally that that lucky seeker takes precedence and thus has taken 110,000 times a home that does not really belong to him. What does the Prime Minister think about the fact that 110,000 homes went to asylum seekers during his period and that Dutch people should be on the waiting list for a huge amount of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u77	That is one of the reasons why, of course, we no longer have the obligation of municipalities to give priority to asylum seekers. Because that was, of course, a point that irritated many Dutch people and I understand that too. They said we're on the waiting list, and then an asylum seeker goes first. Eventually, both of us will have to find a house. The Netherlands is open to refugees who actually flee violence and war, to a limited extent. Our society cannot accommodate everyone. We saw in 2015 and 2016 with the Syrian refugee crisis that you can come to the borders of your capacity. Fortunately, we also made this agreement with Turkey. But we are open to contributing within reasonable limits to the reception of people fleeing war and violence. They too will have to find shelter in one way or another, but of course in a balance with others. What I understood very well was the anger of many Dutch people on the waiting list when priority was automatically given to asylum seekers. We have therefore abolished this in the previous cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u78	The Prime Minister just doesn't know his business. That law has been abolished, and we have also asked questions about it in Parliament, but the current cabinet, your cabinet, has replied that in two of the three cases municipalities still apply that rule of precedence despite that law. Because that law says that priority should no longer be automatic, but allows municipalities to still do so. And what do I tell you? That two out of three municipalities still do that. It will be that burger sausage whether you do it or that congregation; he still has to wait for that list. Again, 110,000 homes have gone to asylum seekers. People have to wait and to this day these asylum seekers are given priority. Now I have a proposal, Madam President. We have a lot of Syrians in the Netherlands right now, way too much. But at least we have some 45,000 Syrians who do not yet have a permanent residence permit. That's gonna change any minute. You know, if you're here five years in this country, your temporary status goes if you ask about a permanent residence permit, I think even automatically. Parts of Syria are already safe. And if Syria is not safe, then there are countries in the region where people have the same culture, the same language, the same ideology, from the Gulf States to the Gulf States. And rich countries can take care of these people too. If you could help those Syrians who are in the Netherlands, who can help build their own country... Isn't that the best thing you can do, help build your own country? There are parts of Syria that are safe. There are Syrians from Lebanon and Jordan who are already voluntarily returning from the camps to Syria because they themselves find, casually, that it is safe. If you do that, if you say "I'm going to let those Syrians go back" then there will be, just as far as Syrians are concerned, almost 30,000 homes are concerned, from one day to the next. Then you have picked them up, then you give them a chance to build their land and then 30,000 homes will be released for Dutch people. Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u79	Any Syrian who wants to go back can go back, but then we have to determine with each other whether such a country is safe. Fortunately, it's not Geert Wilders or Mark Rutte doing that. We do so as objectively as possible and at the moment the situation in Syria is not so that you can say to the Syrian refugees: you go back, we oblige you to go back. If you want to go back, you can always, but the obligation to go back and all the more the obligation to go to another country in the region... In itself, that would be very good if you had done it in the region itself. But how would Jordan or Turkey react if we said "here you have 10,000 Syrians"? What does Mr Wilders think? What will they do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u80	And how will the Dutch react? Why are you always thinking about everything and everyone around the world, except those Dutch? We have a prime minister here who says, "What would the Jordans think? What would the Lebanese think?" But what would the 300,000 Dutch who are still waiting for a house? Why don't you think about the Dutch? Once again, the Syrians who are in camps in the neighbouring countries of Lebanon and Jordan are already returning voluntarily! Indeed, not every part of Syria is safe, but parts of Syria are currently so safe that Syrians from neighbouring countries can voluntarily leave their shelter camps. So if Syrians go willingly, you can definitely force them to go. You can force them to go, can't you? Why don't you say once: it's enough, go build your own country? There are parts safe, we have a large housing shortage in the Netherlands, Dutch people have been on the waiting lists for too long: back! Go build your own country, and the homes will be free for our people. You don't even think about our people. You are thinking of the Lebanese and the Jordans, but not of the Dutch, Madam President, and that is exactly what ten years of Rutte are all about, except for our own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u81	No, that's not so bad. I am thinking, like Mr Wilders, of the Netherlands in the first place. That's what we're here for. But it's got to be realistic if you're picturing them. I simply do not think it is realistic to imagine to the Netherlands that a country like Jordan, where 4 million people live, including 1.5 million refugees, would be happy if we forced our refugees here to go to Jordan, sorry: to Lebanon. And Jordan has similar problems right now. South Turkey is already catching 2.5 million Syrian refugees. It'd be nice if I could. I'm very much in favour of shelter in the region. That is absolutely right and we have done so with the Turkey deal. But it has to be realistic. If you were to say to Syrian refugees in the Netherlands "you're going back to such a country," I'd turn people's minds as well. And so does Mr Wilders here. So we're both here for the Dutch interest. Totally agree with him, but it is not realistic and unfair to the Dutch people to give the impression that this is a way out. I am just talking about Syria, and now Mr Wilders is calling out from the benches, and I say it for the Acts, President-in-Office of the Council, 'I called for Syria'. I think he called Jordan and Lebanon as well as Syria. Certainly, Syria too, and on Syria I have said that it is fortunately not the case that Geert Wilders or I decide here in the House of Representatives or a country is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u82	Back to my own country, as far as I'm concerned. Two interruptions ago, the Prime Minister began to challenge the Christian-social tradition. Then I would also like to challenge liberalism. I'd like to take over Mr Heerma's baton. Look at the outcome of the market operation. It has indeed become a "dwelling market." It's a lot more than a difference in words. Behind "home market" and "people's housing" is really a thought. In the crisis of the 1980s, building houses remained on track, while production collapsed when there was a crisis here ten years ago. Afterwards it became very difficult to find builders, to find people who could stick their hands out of their sleeves. It was very difficult to get it started to rebuild that production. Then, looking back, you can't say: that market, that went fine? The Prime Minister said that there is a problem with democracy and with participation in the Christian-social tradition. But if I just look purely at what this means to people, then that market has failed, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u83	In a lot of things that affect public good, such as health care... Well, no, health care is definitely not a market. But when it comes to living, in many cases the government will always have a steering role in public goods such as housing and that sort of thing. But of course there is room for the market in the housing market. It would be weird if it weren't. We have properties for sale. We've got people building a house. We have companies that develop certain projects, and that goes in good cooperation with corporations, with the rental sector and with the housing market. That'll be a mix. However, I would point out that we have been facing major issues in recent years, apart from the crisis we have had. We are really dealing with a country where there is less cultivated area than, say, 30 years ago. I have just said, in response to Mr Heerma, that I believe that, from the point of view of a strong state, there is a great deal of profit to be gained in the years to come in the direction of the government, in close cooperation with provinces and municipalities. I think it's too simple to take this back to market forces. Of course, there is a form of market forces in the housing market, but in conjunction with a steering role of the government, from that strong state, on a number of public targets. Health care is certainly not a market operation and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u84	Because of this steering role of the government and that strong government could continue building houses in the 1980s, even though there was a crisis. Tens of thousands of homes continued to be built. That was no longer the case in the last crisis here. What's it gonna take? Let's make it practical. Now we need a change in our housing stock. For example, there are elderly people who say: I am healthy and I can just live in one place, but my house is too big, so I would like to live in a new home made for the elderly. But if a piece of land becomes available now, then that land simply goes to the highest bidder and that is not a builder of, for example, the Knarrenhof. Colleague Heerma mentioned that yesterday. It's such a new form of home for the elderly. The government won't be strong. That government won't be steering. That government is not the one who says: we are now going to build for the elderly and build new forms of housing. Then the government is a bit out of control and dictates the market, which makes the elderly fish behind the net.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u85	It is often the municipality itself that spends that land. Isn't that what the municipality has a role in? If it goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u86	If we ask municipalities to allocate a certain percentage of the area for new homes, for new forms of housing for the elderly, then you make an agreement, you have a governing government, you are predictable for builders and you make something possible that the market is not building right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u87	That, of course, is also what Ollongren and the cabinet are doing. We are now making far more agreements with municipalities than we were used to in the past. But strictly speaking, it is also true that some aldermen with dripping mouth corners look at the high yield of that land. That's the point Heerma made. As a result, public targets, such as housing and housing communities for the elderly, are not evolving. I can see that. That is also why I think you need a much tighter direction from the government, in close cooperation with those municipalities and provinces. But you cannot say from an ideological approach: this is market forces. I really don't believe that. In the housing market you will always have to keep a mix of people who own a private home or a property, and people who develop something. That's always been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u88	Finally, Madam President. Yeah, it's gonna have to be a mix, because builders are just private entrepreneurs. But suppose they have a strong government and a clear government...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u89	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u90	... which sets targets and sets a percentage for new forms of housing for the elderly, because there is a huge need for them. If that becomes available, a flow can take place on that......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then starters can get another place. So that would mean a lot. In the past, we have advocated an old-age settlement. That has still not come off enough ground. Motions have been passed on that. My warm encouragement is: work on it and make agreements with municipalities on a percentage that they can reserve for new forms of housing for the elderly. That would mean a lot to many people up to and including starters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u91	I get that. I cannot entirely see it, so I propose that I ask, including the civil servant, that Mrs Ollongren should include this remark by Mr Segers in the budget of BZK when it comes to renting and living.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u92	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Van Brenn. But I want to know how far you are...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u93	I've got a lot left. We're a little late, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u94	I had the same impression. Could you just say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u95	I have finished the subject, but I do have a lot of questions to answer unless you allow me not to answer them. I still have the issues of care, climate, education, discrimination and racism, and justice and security. Looking at the scale of the questions, we have had the big issues. But I have the impression that there is going to be a political accent here and there in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u96	Okay, Mrs. Van Brenk, then you know what parts you can interfere with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join Mr Segers. I share his remark that we are lagging behind in terms of the flow of older people. There was talk about the Knarrenhof, which everyone is excited about. I want to zoom in on another theme, because I think this is underexposed. There are people who are too bad to stay home, but too good for the nursing home. They can't live at home anymore, so they have to go to a residential care complex. There are big differences. Some elderly people in their environment depend on a private residential care complex. They're not tied to the social rents. One may receive the maximum rent subsidy, but every year there is something on top of the rental price. The private residential care complexes can also require additional service costs. In concrete terms, we have gone through a detailed whole with a number of officials. This shows that €200 is not enough every month if one has to live on AOW alone. This means that the municipality must provide special assistance every month. That can't be the point, can it? So my question is whether we are also looking at residential-care complexes where people who depend on their AOW alone can live.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u98	In general, of course, we have the social objective of achieving this. I understand that Mrs Van Brenn has written a whole note on this with official support. In that sense I walk step by step with her is the swamp, where she does float and maybe I don't. So I think it is a good thing that she shares that note with us and that I ask the Minister of the United States and the Minister of the Interior to respond to it when dealing with their budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u99	I would hate for the Prime Minister to drown. I'd be happy to help him with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u100	To make me float.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u101	I am concerned that it should be a goal for the cabinet to provide sufficient residential care complexes that are affordable for the people concerned. My question is whether this is included in the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u102	I am not so exactly aware of all the details of care for the elderly combined with living, that I am now afraid to say yes to that. I understand the point from a social point of view; I can fully sympathize with that. 50PLUS has really made a good study of that, I understand. I would ask for them to be included in these budgets. Then we'll do more justice to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u103	It's been a while about living. It will not surprise you that I am pleased to note that broad in the Chamber seems to be saying goodbye to seeing our housing market as a real market and that there is more and more consensus that we must return to what we once called 'people's housing'. I'm glad. I am also pleased that something seems to happen to the landlord tax and to the rents in the free sector. I would like to put another question to the Prime Minister. He said he was open to good ideas in this area. Now we also have an idea, which I can say in all modesty, that this is quite good, so good that the majority in the First Chamber has already voted for it several times. It is the idea of freezing the rents this year, because we are in the middle of the corona crisis and tenants are in trouble. My question to the Prime Minister is what space there is and what concrete steps he can take this year to meet the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u104	If you look at the cabinet's plans right now, and if you see that the rent increase for sitting tenants has now been below inflation for the first time in years, then I do not think that freezing is wise. Then you should also be careful about the effect that that has on the housing market. That's what the Minister of the Interior argued in the First Chamber, in relation to that chamberal motion. We have said: you should look much more specifically at the position of, for example, low-income people and high rents in a corporation house. Two. You should look very specifically at the question: how much rent increase do you want to have in the coming years above inflation? We have discussed these two points. But to say very genericly "no rent increase" I thought Tiny Kox's motion in the First Chamber that stated "no rent increase" is not wise, I believe. This can also ultimately have an impact on the entire housing production, because it can lead to more houses going to the market and less being built. We really need to be careful about the effects on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u105	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u106	I'll have to take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u107	You had another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u108	The Netherlands and the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u109	Yeah, exactly. Mr Van der Staaij asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u110	We're going abroad for a while. I think we can do that briefly. The Secretary of Defense will inform the Chamber of Civil Victims, scheduled for 8 October, of Hawija's arrangements for survivors and victims. I think that's the answer to that question. Then there is a response to developments in the Middle East. Indeed, it seems to me that it is good news that Israel has now come to diplomatic relations with both the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. The fact is, of course, that Israel has for some time been an important guarantee of security throughout that region, from Sinai to Saudi Arabia. So it was also a logical step that, from this military security role of Israel for the region, diplomatic agreements are now being made. In the same context, there was also a question about the disproportionate attention given to Israel in the UN, including in the Human Rights Council, in accordance with the motion tabled by Mr Van der Staaij on this issue. We do not agree with the disproportionately high number of resolutions within the United Nations, so we support Mr Van der Staaij in that. The same applies to the Human Rights Council. That is why this year we voted against a resolution that we voted for earlier. We are also committed in that Human Rights Council to phasing out that famous, or rather infamous, item 7. That is very specific about Israel and the Palestinian territories. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in our view, there should be and can continue to be consideration in the UN for justified criticism of Member States' action in general. In doing so, we assess each resolution on its own merits. We are in favour of the resumption of dialogue with Israel in the Association Council. The holding of the Association Council gives room to deepen cooperation, but also to discuss matters on which we disagree. In order to resume it, however, there is a need for agreement between the Member States. Some Member States are blocking it. We regularly talk to Member States to see if we can come to a resumption of that Association Council. Shall I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u111	When you're done, I'll go to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u112	I have another question about overseas. Do you want me to take care of them all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u113	I'd treat them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u114	I said "a little," but I mean, I treat them all. Then there was the question: can the Prime Minister give a concrete example of Europe as a geopolitical player? First of all, if you look at COOVID-19, the pandemic, you will see, of course, that a number of developments are being stepped up. That is why we want an effective geopolitical European Union. I would like to draw your attention to their own speech last year in Zurich, which, of course, you all followed. I am sorry about the role of a strong European Union on the world stage. An example of this is that since 2019 the relationship with China has been viewed in a different way. We recognise that internal and external issues need to be considered in full, and Member States seem to recognise that only a strong European position can work in this respect. I also said last week in a video conference with, among other things, the German Chancellor Merkel that as long as Germany and France, as large Member States, are committed to a completely independent foreign policy alongside Europe, it is very complicated to actually achieve joint action there. But at least you can see a change in that, and also a realization. In this sense, we are looking positively at the introduction of majority decision-making in the area of common foreign security policy, at least when it comes to human rights and sanctions. Belarus is indeed an example in which I think we all feel, with the anchoring of the Netherlands in the transatlantic relationship, that it is difficult to imagine that major world political issues will be resolved without the active involvement of the United States. However, this involvement has been reduced. You can see this in the Belarus issue, but you can also see it in Libya and in the conflict between Turkey and Greece. We have sent a clear signal to the Government of Belarus from the outset. The presidential election wasn't fair and free. We don't recognize the results. Violence against peaceful demonstrators must stop immediately. The Belarusian government must ensure a political solution in dialogue. That is why we are working at EU level on sanctions against those responsible for violence and fraud. There is a need for united action here. As I said just now in the context of the wider issue, it is not always easy to bring Europe together; especially when Member States link such a problem to a completely different subject. That's always a risk. I hope that next week we will get to that at the European Council scheduled for Thursday and Friday in Brussels. Then there was a question from Mr Van der Staaij, who was actually going a completely different direction: are you not going to make room for your own Dutch course? I believe that the embedding of the Netherlands in Europe is essential for our security and prosperity. So we need to look very closely at where we can do something together in Europe and where the Netherlands needs to be able to act independently. It is therefore necessary to look at the added value of European cooperation every time. In fact, that is the well-known issue of subsidiarity and proportionality of all the Commission's proposals, as the Court also finds them in those famous BNC sheets. I would like to mention what Mr Van der Staaij talked about. In Europe, we make joint agreements on climate targets and emission standards for cars. This is, of course, important for the internal market. In this sense, you can also see that the Climate Agreement and the internal market are to a large extent counterparts. I understand the desire to achieve a qualified majority in Europe in the area of migration policy, but it is risky. We saw this, of course, in October 2015, when the Justice and Home Affairs Council reached conclusions by majority decision-making on addressing a number of aspects of the Syrian refugee crisis. In fact, this has led to total paralysis from 2015 on the issue of cooperating in the establishment of a common migration policy. This has to be done. It is crucial that Europe arrives at a common approach to migration. The external borders must be protected. There must be a selection of those who have no business here and should go back. It is therefore necessary to ensure that they also go back and so on. You really should. The new migration package will be foreseen next week. We'll wait and see. This will be a first step. This package needs to be discussed in detail. I am committed to seeing whether it is ultimately possible to reach common conclusions on migration policy in Europe. That is very much in the interest of the Netherlands. This also has to do with how you deal with refugees. The current pressure on the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany and a few other Member States on the distribution of refugees is not acceptable. This pressure will have to be spread much wider across Europe. This will also be easier if you can give each other the assurance that the external borders will be well protected and those who have no business here leave. You can also say: if someone is going through, we are not going through the redistribution process. It cannot be that people walk through Europe and still end up here, and we must also stick to our quota for redistribution. We will all have to face these issues in the coming months. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u115	I have Mr Van der Staaij. Isn't it? No? Mr. Baudet? Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Baudet, Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. Mr. Baudet, what are you yelling at? Mr Van der Staaij does not think it is a problem. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u116	I wondered why there were no representatives of the Dutch government when the historic deal was signed between Israel, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and so on. I believe that this could have been a very good time for the Netherlands, because we have all kinds of international ambitions: we want to lead the way in bringing countries together, in international law and that sort of thing. Wouldn't that have been a wonderful time to give act the presence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u117	I think that was in the Oval Office. That does not seem to me to be a space where, in view of a distance of 1.5 metres, apart from the leaders of those countries, there was still room for many others. Or were there many other countries there? That didn't become me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u118	There were at least a number of countries there. I know that there were also a number of European countries. But I don't know the exact line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u119	That doesn't ring a bell. It could be, but I'd have to find out. But there's no reason. We're happy with the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u120	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u121	Of course, important developments have already been identified by the Prime Minister on the Europe course. On the one hand, Brexit has brought a whole new situation and one of the obstacles to the ever-easy transfer of powers to Europe has actually disappeared. My concern is whether it is not ever going to lead to a single route in areas such as the corona approach, migration and climate, towards ever-increasing European integration, rather than to the individuality of the countries. How's the cabinet in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u122	Europe is an association and not an end in itself. That is why I am not in favour of the phrase 'ever closer union'. That is a sort of march of a history that leads to a necessary outcome. I don't believe in that. I believe that every time we look very pragmatically at the point where European cooperation brings added value. At the core, it offers us two great things: economic opportunities, with a strong currency and a strong market, and it is embedded in the European Union association, which also ensures security for a small country like the Netherlands. I believe that this is one of the three major tasks that I said earlier for the next five to ten years, in addition to jobs and the question of how we will ensure that this country remains this country, not only national but also international security. Think of Erdogan, Putin and the unpredictability at this time of America in its anchoring in the North Atlantic relationship. People feel that and realize that. From my role as Prime Minister, I think it is very important to keep this country safe. That is why this international embedding is very important. So you must also invest in these associations, including in the European Union. If it goes on parts one way that doesn't like it, we try to adjust it. It should not therefore concern itself with things where it has no added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u123	Those are good words, but in practice it seems as if the snowball is growing ever further. I see so little movement of reform, learned from developments around England. Many people say, "This is so far from our bed. This touches us very strongly. Give more room to own Member States to make their own choices." Does the Prime Minister see that movement? Does the cabinet also want to work for this? Or is it more like the D66 line, like: we can transfer even more powers to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u124	No, I'm not in favour of transferring powers as such. Nor am I in favour of the perseverance of regaining powers. You have to look at that at a time. The governing body of the European Union is the European Council of Heads of Government....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is the European Council that takes the leading decisions and determines the political direction of the Union. It should be, because it is an association of sovereign states. Since Lisbon, you can get out. So it's 100% sovereign again. You can also decide not to proceed. That does not seem to me to be in the Dutch interest, but that can be done. That's what the British have shown us. At least the question now becomes how big the fuss is going to be there, but that is another issue. Is there a particular issue in Europe that Mr Van der Staaij would like to get rid of? Then I'm gonna see if we can work that out, if I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u125	You can now see that, among other things, climate, asylum and the corona approach are being used when, of course, issues such as these require cooperation in order to take steps not to give Parliament more control, but to see if we can deal with this supranationally. In my view, these are three very concrete issues in which you see increasingly far-reaching movements that jeopardise national control, your own choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u126	Yes. If I take the climate, I think there is very close cooperation with the internal market. That is, of course, the paradox: our internal market is linked to how you deal with competitiveness. For example, when it comes to emission standards for cars, it is of course also important for the Dutch industry that there is a level playing field. We supply a quarter of the spare parts for the German automotive industry. We can indeed do more intergovernmental things, but the risk is that the large Member States are often more dominant in decision-making than when it is Community and the Commission, as guardian of the interests of the smaller Member States, can do its job. I think you should look at it at a time. But if you take the climate, I don't know if it would work intergovernmentally. At corona, it might be more imaginable. So you really need to look at it on a subject-by-issue basis. As far as I'm concerned, there's no lawality that we're further integrating. We need to consider on a subject-by-issue basis whether, as a Member State, as a proud country, we consider it wise to do so in Europe, intergovernmental or Community.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u127	The current European asylum policy is failing. People have no legal migration routes and are at the mercy of smugglers. We cannot defend Europe's external borders properly and there are degrading conditions in refugee camps across the European external borders. In the meantime, you can see that the support base is under pressure in several Member States, because it has also failed to achieve a good redistribution of refugees across European countries. This European refugee policy is not failing because the European Parliament has no ideas about it or because the European Commission has not made proposals for it, but because the Heads of Government have not been able to adopt this new European migration policy in recent years. They have been held hostage by Orbán, Hungary, and Poland, by countries that are not prepared to take their fair share in refugee policy. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore as follows. Now that the European Commission has announced new proposals and Angela Merkel has said 'I want to finally untie the migration dossier during the German Presidency', is the Prime Minister prepared to finally adopt this new migration policy with a majority of EU Member States, even if a number of Member States persist?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u128	Technically, there's that option. The European Council decides unanimously, but the Justice and Home Affairs Council decides by qualified majority on these issues. But I have just said that this has happened once and that has led to a five-year delay, because you can do that, but then there will be a fight every step with those who have not supported it. To say something about Poland and Hungary, I am very critical of those two countries when it comes to the rule of law. We've talked about that before. With regard to migration policy, I ask not so much for understanding, but for attention to be paid to the fact that there are more things going on. There has been a collective failure in Europe to effectively secure the external borders and to ensure that we agree together. If 95% of the people arriving in Italy or Greece have no business there, then they have to go back, but that has not happened. This puts the political refugees, the people who are really on the run, at risk. Suppose you were able to develop a system in which you can secure the external borders with a high degree of security, I thought that that would also be the thinking from the Commission and you would make agreements on how to hold on to the people who should not go further into Europe but should return to the country of origin. This would be done in conjunction with reception in the region, where it can be extended further, such as the agreements with Turkey on Syrian refugees. Then you have a completely different chapter, because then you talk about a much smaller group of people than the group that is currently walking through itself, arriving here in the Netherlands, applying for asylum and going into the procedure, and only a small part of which turns out to be real asylum seeker. That is also why it leads to such pressure in the Netherlands. So there is a lot to say to do in Europe, but I would warn against using the QMV instrument too quickly. I also think that the analysis on Hungary and Poland should be more nuanced on this point. I think that if you really can secure the external borders well, you can reach agreements with those countries earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u129	The Prime Minister says: you should not resort too quickly to an instrument whereby a majority takes such a decision rather than unanimously. Too soon? We have been waiting for a decent European refugee policy for years, so I do not think it is too soon. It is high time that the Heads of Government took that responsibility. But let me think along with the Prime Minister. He says: perhaps the European Commission's proposals are so good that even countries like Hungary and Poland can be poked for that. This Prime Minister is one of the longest-standing Heads of Government of Europe. He and Angela Merkel also experienced the previous refugee crisis. At that time, the Netherlands took responsibility for dealing with them with a number of other countries. Is the Prime Minister prepared to use this experience in the weeks to come, together with Von der Leyen and Merkel, to make every effort to reach a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u130	I consider this a huge job that lies ahead. The neighbor, as we call each other, she calls me "neighbor," fortunately, where I can, I will support in being Chancellor of the country that has the rotating Presidency of the European Union. So there's an opportunity there, too, but it's going to be extremely complex. First of all, the Commission's good proposals. They've been delayed for six months, but for good reason. We need to look very carefully at the balance. I hope so. It will then be a major issue for joint decision-making in the Union. Sure, I'm gonna do my best. I hear from many here that it will be done after ten years, but I am glad that Mr Jetten will allow me to go on for a few more months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u131	I actually want to... Yes, Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u132	Thank you for the Prime Minister's commitment to a personal commitment to finally adopt European refugee policy. We hope, of course, for good proposals from the Commission next week, and that, with the support of Merkel and Rutte, it will succeed. But I would also like to give it to you: what if, over the next few months, it appears that one, two or a few Member States are still holding you hostage? We often disagree here in this Chamber on all kinds of issues relating to refugee policy, but we do agree on one thing. Only if we manage to monitor the European external borders and ensure the proper distribution of refugees across Europe can we succeed in maintaining the refugee policy with sufficient support. If two countries do not participate, that is a pity for those two countries, but let us take responsibility for a humane refugee policy with the other 25 countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u133	Look, the decision-making process allows that, but there are risks to it that I outlined. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. Mr. Chairman. Then one point in between. That was something I couldn't put in the cups. That is Mr Heerma's question about the WOB. Two things. Let me first say that the good relationship of trust and the information relationship between the Chamber and the Cabinet are very important. Madam President, you and I had a cup of tea this week. Mr Heerma referred here to the WOB procedure. I would like to say this once again: the firm starting point of the government's policy on the information relationship is that the WOB is the absolute lower limit for the provision of information to the House of Representatives. It should not be the case that essential information comes out through the WOB, without informing the House of Representatives. This means that if information that is considered relevant to the Chamber is disclosed by a WOB decision, the Chamber will also be informed of it. I regularly draw attention to this in the Council of Ministers, also for its rigorous implementation. I also discussed this with you recently. This was also addressed in the recent opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State on Ministerial Responsibility. The further report on this is in preparation. We shall look into that further. This will also affect the relationship with Article 68 of the Constitution. I would like to say three things about this. One, the Chamber should get what the WOB gets. Two: there will be a response to the Council of State's report on Article 68. The President and I have also discussed another point which I can mention here and which I have also dealt with in the Council of Ministers. It sometimes happens, especially for general consultation, that large stacks of documents are still sent at the last minute. I applied the Schipper's doctrine to that. In such a case, Edith Schippers called the chairman of the Permanent Chambers Committee and said: "I'm sorry, there's really no other way, but there's still a lot of information for an AO that's coming up very soon, shall we do it a few days later?" Then you can decide in good consultation that there is sufficient time to prepare and it does not give the impression that we are trying to inundate a general consultation with new documents. I called in the cabinet for timely contact with the chairman of the standing committee in such a case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u134	It puts me in a bit of a difficult position, because we had the conversation about that. These are points that have been raised there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u135	I don't want to say anything about how you reacted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u136	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u137	I just wanted to say what I brought in. No, I'm not saying we made agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u138	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u139	These were the points I put in. Your President will, of course, decide how she reports on this discussion and her views.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u140	Good. The Chamber deals with its own information position in relation to Article 68, because I now hear that the Council of the State has a role in this too. You can, but it's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u141	It has delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u142	Mr President, I have no doubt that I am allowed to speak to "you" now, so you do not have to answer for that. However, the Prime Minister's answer is not the answer to the question I asked. Because the Prime Minister's answer is here: if documents have been requested and they have always been said no and it later turns out that it has to be done in a WOB procedure, we are going to send them. But that's not the question. I think it is a looming mistake that when Members of Parliament really want to get pieces played, Members of Parliament really do not do that for every wiper that is not given those pieces but then come into a WOB procedure months later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u143	Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u144	And then it's: now there's a lower limit, now we're gonna send it. This is a looming mistake. If you want to have good relations between the Cabinet and the Chamber, that loom error must be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u145	It is good that Mr Heerma asks that question, because that is the counterpart of what I said. That means that if a question is asked from the Chamber for information, we should not be 'wanting to or not willing to provide it', but that at least the question should be 'if this question had been asked in the context of the WOB and you would then provide it'. So we'll give it to the Chamber now and not later because it happens to be requested in a WOB. No, this is very essential. So I fully agree with Mr Heerma. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u146	And when are we going to get in writing what's in this line, in response to the advice of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u147	That's what's gonna happen in that reaction. We are working on the further report and we will take these aspects into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u148	On what time do we have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u149	It says here: as soon as possible. Now my colleague who prepares this as the main contractor is doing something important about it. Seriously, by the way. She really needed to have an emergency meeting. So I'm gonna ask her in a minute and I'm gonna let her know. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of concern. Much has been said about this, of course, also in the discussion we have just had on a number of aspects of business. I have already said that some EUR 1 billion is structurally available for additional wage increases in 2021. I have also outlined what we are going to do. In fact, in response to the previous debate we have had here on healthcare salaries, or a previous debate we have had here on healthcare salaries, it is important to establish that there is more to it than just a question of income. Around income, of course, is the bonus, now and next year, and room for further wage increases of 1 billion next year. In addition, there are two major issues. The first big issue is how we make it attractive to work in healthcare. What are the aspects involved? We have made available EUR 130 million per year for the coming years, starting from 2023, for a broad approach to attractive working in healthcare. Then we are talking about all those things that you and I hear in our conversations with nurses: reducing the workload, improving career prospects for employees, improving contracts when it comes to roasting and the larger contract size, more direction, more control. How do you ensure that when you are working with each other, for example, scaling up the intensivecarecapacity, nurses are automatically consulted in it and not just the people who do not deal with it every day. So in other words, how do you ensure that we put craftsmanship back at the centre and also cut it further into bureaucracy? I notice in all my conversations that this is a huge reason. Those reasons were one to six in the letter from Mrs Van Ark who was here in the previous debate on care, the last debate here on healthcare salaries. That does not alter the fact that there is still a question of pay. As a cabinet, apart from the billion now available for structural wage increases, we think that there is more going on than the further increase in this generic wage increase. We really think that we need to look at the bottlenecks and the opportunities that can contribute to influx, retention, enjoyment and appreciation in the broad sense. So you talk about issues such as working conditions, of course, but also about issues such as career prospects and issues such as initial salaries: how do you deal with people in the lowest pay scales? All these issues need to be looked at. We have asked the ESC to do so. There is a committee to carry out a reconnaissance on those specific bottlenecks. So yes, a billion for next year for the structural raise and yes, the bonuses. But having parked that, now money is structurally available for a comprehensive approach to making work more attractive and, three, very important, the advice we would like to ask the ESC. We ask them to take a broad look at this and also to put together the committee that is going to do so, to ensure that all these aspects of labour market policy, including pay, flow, start-up salaries and so on, are closely linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u150	Let me take a look at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u151	To be honest, I have had very few questions about care. Maybe I can get that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u152	Yes, you have a few more topics. If they're short, we'll do it first. Then maybe you could ask questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u153	I'll finish the subject of care first. A few more questions have been asked about the care. How are we going to design that investigation? I said something about that. It is therefore a temporary committee of the Economic and Social Council under Article 43 of the Economic and Social Council Act. This is a committee which includes representatives of the ESC and representatives from outside the Council. The healthcare professionals themselves and experts are also well represented on that committee. The committee will pay attention to all dimensions that affect the working pleasure and the appreciation, including the salary. Mrs Marijnissen asked a question about market thinking in health care. As far as I am concerned, may I say that there is no market for care? The debate on our health care is about how we can ensure for people that they have good, accessible and affordable care, now and in the future. We're having that discussion, too. The Netherlands has a health care that is among the best in the world, thanks to all nurses and doctors, but also all those people who work in support, patient transportation, cleaning and so on. Then it turns out that we score very high in terms of quality, accessibility and affordability. Nevertheless, there are problems. We're getting older. Care demands are rising. There's a shortage in the labour market. And so there are also issues about bringing in sufficient good care staff and motivating people to work in health care. This is also linked to demographic developments. The cabinet is working on a outline note on all these long-term issues related to health care. This is therefore separate from the ESC opinion. The three leaders of VWS, Paul Blokhuis, Tamara van Ark and Hugo de Jonge, are working on this contour note. They aim to have the consultation version ready for the budget handling of VWS. It is therefore intended that a first discussion can take place on this subject. Finally, there was a question from Mrs Marijnissen about the care neighbourhoods and small-scale care. There are many of these small-scale initiatives that are getting off the ground. Think of The Polder Hofje Anna Paulowna. And the Knarrenhof was mentioned here again, by Mrs Van Brenn. I also mention De Oosterburen in Den Bosch and an initiative in Austerlitz. To support implementation, a Incentive Scheme for Living and Care has been set up, which has also been extended. 38 applications for a feasibility study on a new, small-scale initiative were received in 2020. So these are initiatives that come from the inhabitants and the social entrepreneurs themselves. It may differ from the care neighbourhoods such as the SP, but this incentive scheme offers opportunities to submit proposals for this and to assess the feasibility. And I would like to invite everyone here, knowing that many people are following this debate. These were my answers to the questions about care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u154	You still have to respond to the issues of climate, education, discrimination and racism, justice and taxation. And I know that a number of colleagues can only ask one or two questions. That suits you well, but I think it's good to still...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u155	But I think I already have all the politically difficult issues...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u156	I don't know if everyone feels that way. No. Then I would like to suggest to you that these subjects...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u157	All of them now? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u158	Then they can choose which topic is most important to ask questions about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u159	Fine. A call has been made to isolate more houses and to develop an isolation plan in the short term. We do believe it is right to isolate houses. The knife cuts both ways, because the energy bill goes down and it contributes to achieving the climate goals. There are all kinds of resources available for this, which I will not mention now. This includes, of course, the Heat Fund, for long-term loans for energy saving. The Minister of the Interior will shortly come forward with a letter to the House of Representatives on the built environment. It will also address the issue of isolation. There is much potential in a step-by-step approach with large-scale insulation and hybrid heat pumps. But of course this is all an intermediate step towards making further natural gas free. This is therefore further discussed in the BZK budget. Why don't we put on all the roofs that are suitable for solar panels? We don't think it's up to the government to do this. Citizens and businesses can choose for themselves, as the cabinet sees in practice. There is a sophisticated subsidy toolbox for sun on the roof, with the netting scheme, the Postcode rose scheme and, of course, the SDE+ grant. Then there was the thought of banning the solar fields immediately. We don't think that's wise. In addition to solar energy on rooftops, sun on field as an option is needed for an early change and the start of the energy transition. It's not pretty, but we can't do without it. The promotion is done cost-efficiently through SDE+. Then there was the suggestion that the CO levy for industry would have been weakened. I don't think that's true. This whole scheme is aimed at encouraging companies to become the best in their classrooms. If they don't, they have to pay. This rate will also be reviewed over the coming years. That is also in line with the way things have been discussed politically here, I think. Then there was the question of the justification of all expenditure in the context of the reform of pig farming. The objective of the existing subsidy scheme is to reduce odours in livestock-tight areas. We have increased the original amount by another 180 million for further nitrogen reduction and greenhouse gas emissions. We have extended those objectives. So that's by-catch, too. Smell is still the criterion, but of course there is also nitrogen gain. That's how the knife cuts both ways. In addition, there is a further 280 million from nitrogen resources, but this is reserved for all agricultural sectors. So that's not just for pig farming. We believe that these are effective measures to reduce nitrogen in the longer term. This is on top of the 172 million already earmarked from the climate envelope and the resources for the sustainability of pig farming for the source-oriented sustainability support modules. Then there was the question of what to do with the Just Transition Fund. That's got to start. The negotiations have not yet been concluded. The fund is intended for regions facing the greatest challenges to take the step towards a climate-neutral economy, for example because there is a lot of heavy industry. All the regions are in the picture, including Groningen, in view of the enormous social issues that lie there. It is important, however, that we look very closely at each region's problems, where the opportunities lie and where support is needed. It's not the only instrument either. There are of course also the current National Programme Groningen and the possibilities from among others the SDE+. We want to see where we can best use the Just Transition Fund in the end. In accordance with the Mulder/Dik-Faber motion, we will also involve the regions in its development. Then it was asked: is it not time to end cheap flights in Europe? Ticket prices are in principle free to be determined by airlines. That is existing EU legislation. Air carriers are bound by the rules of European competition law. However, the Minister of IeW also discussed earlier in the Chamber the possibility of imposing a minimum ticket price. This was in response to reports that Austria has plans to do so. There's a D66 motion from June this year. At the request of the Chamber, on the basis of that motion, the Minister of IenW, together with Austria, will examine the possibilities for a minimum ticket price. Then the question could be: and when is that known? The answer is then: before the end of the year the state of play will be passed on. It was also discussed by the Minister of IenW. Then there is the question of the business case for nuclear power plants. The climate and energy transition has many aspects and considerations. Yesterday, CDA and VVD drew attention in their contribution to the role that nuclear energy can play in this. The questions about which technologies should be part of the energy mix, both during the transition and in the final picture of 2050, are of course complex and diverse. Nuclear energy is not underlined as part of that mix, not excluded. This also fits the principle of steering on CO, and as you know, they do not emit CO. Nuclear energy is seen by all kinds of parties as a logical part of the energy mix. There is therefore the importance of acceptance. Depending on how that foundation develops in society, the cabinet is prepared to do more exploratory research. Of course, it's possible. I understand that a motion will be tabled by the two parties mentioned. If this motion is adopted, we are going to take up this request for serious research into what is needed to get nuclear energy into the energy mix in the Netherlands after 2030. I shall therefore await that motion, but if it is adopted, we shall carry it out. The CDA has asked what public investments are needed to make the business case. We expect to give more insight into this in the short term. There is also a motion by Members Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mulder, the first being from the VVD and the second from the CDA, I suspect. And then there is the research into the role of nuclear energy in the Dutch energy mix that has been developed for this purpose. Furthermore, the cabinet is open to market players interested in exploring the possibility of building a nuclear power plant. Then biomass. We believe that renewable biomass is at least necessary for the time being to produce high temperature heat. If you limit it now for industry, many companies do not have an affordable alternative. However, biomass must be produced sustainably. That means trees can grow as fast as you cut them down again. Often it's also about residual streams, like wood chips I thought. Eric wasn't paying attention, but he's saying yes now. That way we can do it, but we can do it temporarily. Then there was the question about the power grid. The power balance in the electricity grid will continue to need to be regulated in the future. Even though sun and wind are often not present at the same time, sometimes they are. This can be done through storage, batteries from electric cars, smart demand control, system integration with, for example, gaseous energy carriers. If we go off the gas, we have to import dirty energy from Russia and Poland, as was said here. Leaving the gas in the built environment leads to a reduction in gas consumption and thus to a reduction in import demand. Quite apart from that is the end of the gas extraction in Groningen. So it's independent of the energy transition. You want to reduce the earthquakes in Groningen as much as possible. That is why the extraction of gas is being speeded up. This is also going much faster at the moment than reducing consumption. This means that we need to import more gas in the short and medium term to meet domestic demand, simply because Groningen is falling but gas consumption is still there. Once again, it is a misunderstanding that we are gaining less Groningen gas and stopping winning it because we want to use less gas. It's separate from each other. Hence also temporarily more imports. Then there was the demand for raising the national target of the Climate Act. As you know, we have agreed to go for 49% as a cabinet, but we would like it to be 55%, provided it is done in a level playing field. Of course, the speech yesterday by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, is very helpful. This decision will take place in the coming months. The Netherlands will, of course, take a positive part in this. It's important that this happens. This will, of course, also have to lead to further adaptation of national targets and adaptation of the Climate Law in order to bring them into line. Preparatory work has already been done through an official study group led by Laura van Geest. It is in the process of identifying additional measures to respond to an additional national challenge. We expect it to complete its report by the end of this year. As soon as European decision-making is complete, we will subsequently amend the Climate Act. Then I come to education, Madam President. A few things about that. How do we ensure that the 500 million will actually reach the pupils who need these resources on an occasional basis? The funds are intended for pupils who are lagging behind due to the situation surrounding corona. Resources are distributed among schools in primary and secondary education. In the MBO, extra attention is given to students in a vulnerable position. For p.o. and, therefore, by means of the catch-up and support programmes, extra attention is paid to the group which is at extra risk of lagging behind. Then there is the question of whether there should be more money in education. We spend less and less money on education, was claimed. On the contrary, the government has invested substantially and heavily in education in this period of government. In 2021, nearly €2 billion will be invested in education and science, including in teachers' salaries, which will be improved by €270 million in structural terms, but also in addressing the shortage of teachers. In addition, there is the 500 million already mentioned. In addition, we are paying extra money for the increased numbers of students and students. The inequality of opportunity in education by corona must be countered, as rightly pointed out by the Chamber. We saw that for some students school, when the schools had to close, was even more important than for other students, for example because they received less help from home. That is why a great deal has been tried to do right after the closure of the schools. EUR 6 million has been made available to provide devices that are equipment to school authorities to enable 15,000 pupils to take lessons at a distance. We have also offered schools the opportunity to have these students come to school to provide them with the necessary guidance. That does not alter the fact that delays have indeed occurred. Hence the support package for education, especially for these pupils. Schools can use the catch-up programmes scheme. Shouldn't we get rid of early selection moments in education? It is a question from Mr Azarkan. Early selection may be a problem for some students who need a little longer time to exploit their potential. A good selection is important for everyone. Structural improvements in the transition of pupils from primary education to secondary education are possible and necessary. For this purpose, the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media outlined a long-term vision in the evaluation of the Final Review of Primary Education Act. There are already initiatives that contribute to this, such as 10-14 education in schools with broad bridge classes and broad sub-structures. In secondary education there has recently been a legal right to pass on to students wishing to accumulate diplomas. In addition, we invest millions a year in programmes for the transit of primary education to secondary education, which should ease the transition from primary education to secondary education for pupils with low resources at home. So we're working on this on different fronts. In the long term, too, we will continue to do so. Is the government prepared to set up a temporary internship guarantee for students in the MBO who are excluded by corona? There is no discussion about the enormous importance of internships. We know that. The current law already knows the school's obligation to find an internship place, for which the school is also ultimately responsible. Of course, the corona crisis poses huge problems for schools, including in the MBO, in fulfilling that responsibility. We support schools in finding sufficient internships. Additional resources have been made available, including to the Cooperation Organisation Vocational Education Business. Creative solutions will remain necessary in the coming period, such as two students at the same internship: not happy, but they will sometimes have to. Furthermore, best practices are currently shared so that all schools and employers can learn from them. How do we ensure that all those students in practical education are not delayed because they cannot find an internship? Well, at least that's what money has been made available for. I refer to the 30 million made available to the cooperation organisation I mentioned earlier, the SBB, the Cooperation Organisation for Vocational Training in Business Life, in order to provide sufficient internships. To give students who have become 18 this school year the time to complete the internship, it is necessary to extend the length of stay. That is why the Industry Council for Practice Education made agreements with the inspection. Schools in practical education can also apply for funding through the scheme catch-up and support programmes, in order to develop additional activity guidance or replacement assignments. Then there was the proposal to give students from middle-income families a real allowance in study costs instead of a loan. That is, of course, a discussion that will be held in other places in the coming months, I suppose. The cabinet believes that studying is an investment in the future. In addition, we believe that it is quite normal that, in addition to the government, students and parents contribute to the cost of studying. It is all arranged that an additional grant is possible if the income of the parents is not sufficient to contribute to it. This is income-dependent and ultimately the pay-off is also income-dependent. And should you unexpectedly end up in welfare, then after a number of years the remaining debt will be waived. Then I come to the subject of discrimination and racism. Mrs Marijnissen and others have said that the government must set an example here too. It is indeed very important to combat racism and discrimination effectively. That is what we are doing. Let me give you three examples. Awareness of prejudice is important. In order to prevent prejudices in recruitment and selection, trainings are purchased for members of selection committees in order to avoid bias and improve selection interviews. Secondly, it is important to bring to the attention of the public authorities the standard laid down in equal treatment legislation, but also in privacy legislation, for example, and to translate it into implementation practice. For example, the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is working on a translation of anti-discrimination standards into design principles for the developers of ICT systems within the government. Thirdly, the prevention and fight against discrimination is given a place in the integrity policy within the government. Combating abuse of powers, conflicts of interest and undesirable forms of behaviour such as discrimination under the Civil Service Act is part of the integrity policy aimed at promoting good administrative behaviour. Are we now going to make concrete policies to tackle institutional racism? It is a question that Mr Klaver asked. There is a cabinet-wide approach to discrimination. I will not mention all the elements now, but there has been a lot of debate on them. A plenary debate has taken place on this subject and motions have been adopted on the establishment of a state committee and/or a national coordinator against racism. This autumn, the Minister for the Interior will respond to these motions, as she has promised. I myself had conversations with various groups this summer. On 28 September, a wider process will start in which trade ministers and I will be present, but also individuals and representatives of organisations that have been working for a long time in the fight against racism. The intention is that, after a series of subsequent, in-depth consultations between government, society and experts, we will jointly take concrete actions and measures to combat racism in society. Then there was the question of what conclusion the cabinet draws from the observation by the Central Planning Office that discrimination in the labour market is increasing. The CPB notes that the effects of corona on the labour market are particularly striking for groups that are already vulnerable, such as young people and non-Western migrants, who often have temporary jobs or work in sectors where the effects of corona are particularly severe. They lose their jobs first. Discrimination is unacceptable and must be addressed. It is a problem that cannot only be removed by the government; it is a task for all of us. That's what we're committed to. Of course, we have mentioned the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination 2018-2021. For the summer, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment has presented a bill for advice to the Council of State with which the Inspectorate of Social Affairs and Employment is responsible to monitor the presence and implementation of a method of recruitment and selection of employers and intermediaries with sufficient safeguards against discrimination. Before the summer, the Chamber was also informed about the progress of the activities through the progress report Action Plan on labour market discrimination. Furthermore, through the Further Integration Programme in the Labour Market and the Delphi research, a systematic survey of a group of leading experts and scientists in order to obtain a shared picture of the most effective interventions is used to develop demonstrably effective interventions for equal opportunities in the labour market. Then an important question has been asked: when will the proposal on discrimination in application procedures be submitted to the Chamber? The bill is expected in the coming weeks, I say to Mr Jetten. It was sent for advice to the Council of State for the summer. As reported to the Court in the second progress report Action Plan on labour market discrimination, the method of reporting discriminatory requests in connection with the legislative proposal is prepared, but has its own timetable. A reporting obligation is a possible means of achieving equal opportunities. That's not an end in itself. It sounds simple, but it's not. It requires, we think, an accurate assessment. This concerns the importance of the notification, a definition of when and not a notification must be made, the question of the follow-up steps following the notification and the matters of evidence and privacy. Mr President, I have a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u160	I see the MPs getting a little impatient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u161	There have been so many good questions asked. I want to honor them all. Then I'm gonna have a cup of tea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u162	Yes. We did indeed have a first fifteen-hour period yesterday, with a lot of questions. I see Mr Segers, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u163	So perhaps for the sake of order, I have a few questions to answer on the issue of discrimination. Maybe that's what I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u164	I'm kind of lost track of where we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u165	No, no. There are two other questions that relate to discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u166	I can't answer questions either, but I'll get that anger or irritation later, of course. I have three more questions about discrimination. No, no, not from you, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u167	I'm just curious. The cube of varia. Are we gonna see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u168	I have three more questions to answer about discrimination. Then a few questions about justice and security and two questions about the IRS. So we're a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u169	Good. Then it might be good to answer those three questions about discrimination. I'll go see the MPs. The other questions about justice and the tax authorities will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u170	Yes. I was with the questions about discrimination and racism. Where are the legislative proposals to tackle discrimination in the housing market and the labour market, also in order to impose much higher fines there? We believe that clear legislation is an important pillar for tackling racism and discrimination. So we're working on that bill from the Secretary of State for SZW, like I said. The Minister of BZK is currently investigating to have a complete picture of discrimination in the rental housing market at the beginning of 2021. Pilots in Utrecht and Rotterdam will provide insight into effective opportunities to better tackle discrimination. This approach to discrimination in the housing market is therefore taken into account in the intensification of the whole approach to discrimination. Then there is the SGP: the issue of anti-Semitism. In reply to Mr Van der Staaij's question, I say that this is an evil that always rises in old and new forms. Last year the number of anti-Semitic incidents in the Netherlands increased again. The current corona crisis is another reason for all kinds of conspiracy theories, whether anti-Semitic or not. The EUR 3 million earmarked for the implementation of the initiative paper of Members of Parliament Yeşilgöz and Segers for the fight against anti-Semitism also comes at exactly the right time. The allocation of grants will focus inter alia on projects aimed at increasing the quality of notifications and declarations and improving the follow-up to notifications and declarations. I mention the approach to anti-Semitism on the Internet, where a number of organisations for the large IT platforms act as trusted flagger. This means that they can inform these platforms as a reliable party about discriminatory and anti-Semitic statements. For the Netherlands, the Meldpunt Internet Discrimination does so and after reporting that MiND follows in 97% of the cases removal. As regards registration: anti-Semitic incidents taking place in the Netherlands are well mapped out by the police, the anti-discrimination services, the prosecution and not least the CIDI. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm out of questions. Then all I have to do is answer the questions about justice and security and about the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u171	Good. First, Mr Segers. I have Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Wilders, Mr Azarkan. Mr. Jetten, too? No, he's fine. Okay. Mr Segers first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u172	It was a barrage of answers. I have no idea which block starts exactly where.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u173	I'm gonna find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u174	But it's all been read neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u175	If you mention the subject, I'll look for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u176	It's about the Just Transition Fund. So that's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u177	The climate!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u178	Exactly. ...energy transition. A lot of European money will be released for this. We have written in the coalition chord: if we continue with that energy transition, then Groningen, the province where literally the cracks in the walls are, must become the frontrunner in that energy transition. If we get money from Europe, is it not fair to ensure that Groningen becomes the frontrunner in this division?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u179	Yes. Well, let me put it this way. I agree that Groningen has a position to be the frontrunner in this, and with that to continue to be the energy province in the future, but in a positive way and no longer with the terrible consequences of the earthquakes caused by gas extraction. There's money for that, too. Of course, the Groningen National Programme invests in this. It is also quite possible that that comes from the Just Transition Fund. It's just, it's not there yet. So all I'm advocating is that we take a test together for a while. The question is this: is this also the best bet on this subject? I think there's a good chance the answer to that is yes. However, in the context of the Groningen National Programme, a large amount of money is available to invest. Wiebes and Ollongren are working on that. I also mention the regular tools of the SDE+ and other instruments to support Groningen in this. But this is a very good opportunity. It's just, it's not there yet. It's still to be determined. The negotiations are still ongoing. But I think we should agree that when we assess the Just Transition Fund we explicitly include the issue of Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u180	I have said something about this in the media, and then you immediately get drivers from other provinces on the line, who say: wait a minute, but we also have very good plans. And I get that. Just, I'm looking at what happened in Groningen in the light of history. And we all know how painful that has been. We see what we've asked of that province, how we've all benefited from the gas extraction. We wrote it down. It's always choosing in scarcity. If you give someone something, it also means you don't give others something. So that's always complicated. But if we can choose now, if we have money, then I really think it is a debt of honor that we say: Groningen must lead the way in that transition. And then we also want Groningen to be able to do so, including in the distribution of that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u181	We agree that we must ensure that Groningen becomes a frontrunner in the field of energy transition. In my view, what we need to show is what is needed in terms of financial resources. Then a potential nutrition of those financial resources is the JTF, the Just Transition Fund. That makes sense, too. But once again, when it is negotiated in Europe, let us look at it in that capacity. Let's make it explicit, too. But if it is unexpected that it is not suitable for that, then we should be able to show how it is financed in a different way in Groningen, because that does not affect that social purpose. We agree on the goal. Nourishment from this pot also makes sense to me, but let's read that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u182	And looking more broadly at the North Netherlands. Gas extraction also plays a role in Drenthe. But also looking at repairing the local damage that has been incurred. That's really going to be broader looking at Groningen and doing justice to that province and seeing it wider in the North of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u183	Yes, and these issues are all in the discussions that the Ministers of the Interior and EZK are holding with Groningen on behalf of the cabinet. This is the enormous impact the earthquakes have on the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u184	The Prime Minister said that care is not a market. That's good, that's in our election program, we're happy with it. I therefore assume that the Prime Minister, if he thinks so, will actually put an end to the profits in health care, to the crazy tenders that we still have in the care sector, to the broken market and the bureaucracy of the health insurance companies. That's all part of it if care isn't a market. I look forward to it. Then it's about salaries. The cabinet's really making an error of judgment here. We have all applauded the people in the care sector, and now they are threatening to be dismissed with half a bonus and a commission. A committee that has to study on what needs to be done for six months. But it has long been known what needs to be done: caregivers deserve a fair reward. I really think the cabinet is making an error of assessment as to how this is done by healthcare professionals. This is really bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u185	We have of course had this debate a few times with each other, but it is so important that it can hardly be enough. What to do? One. This year and next year occasional money, in order to recognise the enormous additional burden of care due to corona. Two. We are releasing a substantial amount of money for the coming years to ensure that all kinds of things happen that are not directly related to salary, but with work, pleasure, pleasure and autonomous work and reducing bureaucracy. Three. As far as structural wage increases are concerned, through the agreements on them, around 1 billion are structurally available for the collective bargaining negotiations for 2021. Four. To see what else is needed, I think it's good not to say that we're going to raise the billion generically, but to go over that billion very specifically to see where it's needed. Is that with the starting salaries, with the growth, what about the people with a small salary in care et cetera et cetera? We would like advice on all these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u186	This really bothers me. The Prime Minister keeps mentioning the same thing, but we know that by now. The problem is that caregivers are not now able to count on a net structural wage increase. The Prime Minister just pointed out where he was talking about telling the truth. There will be less room for an increase in healthcare pay next year because there will also be less room for pay in the market sector, and that is linked to each other. In the market it goes down and in the care it will also go down. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how does he intend to explain this to healthcare professionals? Not only do all healthcare providers want this, the entire opposition wants this, the whole of the Netherlands wants this. I really think the cabinet is making an error of judgment. I therefore urge the Prime Minister to reconsider and not do so in this way. I think we are taking an irresponsible risk if we already know that in one and a half years' time we will need 80,000 additional healthcare professionals. People experience this as a slap in the face: from beating for care to a slap in the face. And a substantial part of our caregivers are now considering doing something else. Even if we disagree on the salary increase, we simply cannot afford it, Prime Minister. I really ask you to reconsider this and not to leave it on a committee that has to study for six months and pay half a bonus, but to live up to your fine words, the applause that we have all given to those people, and to give our caregivers a fair reward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u187	I would say to those nurses or to the patient transporter: listen, you should know that the whole of the Netherlands has great admiration for the work you do. This is the only sector in government that has a salary increase linked to salary developments in the market sectors. That means that there will also be EUR 1 billion available next year for your salary for your salary, I would say to that nurturing EUR 1 billion. That is less than we thought at first, because salaries in the market sectors are also rising less. This is different from that of the defence, police and government, where these negotiations take place every year. Here's an automatic clutch. We also believe that, given this year's extremely special performance, which will also take place next year, a one-off additional increase in salaries is desirable. We'll do that through the bonuses. Three. In all the conversations I've had with people in care I've had a lot of lately, of course, there was talk about the salary, but first of all the things that I just mentioned came up: the broader approach to working attractively in care. These are reducing the workload, career prospects, improving contracts, more direction, more control and so on. For this, we are going to make a structural EUR 130 million per year from 2023 onwards. I realize that there are all kinds of issues around the pay structure of care that we need to solve. They have to do with scales, with growth and with initial salaries. So we are not choosing a structural wage increase above that billion, but we are choosing to be advised on what exactly is needed to spend the euros in such a way that they end up in the care area where additional business needs to be done, on top of the generic increases resulting from the linking of wages to market wages. That nurse will say to me: I actually think I should have a structural increase in salaries, on top of that increase in salaries in the market. Then I'll say, if it's up to me, we'll do the same. No problem at all. But my job is to make choices in case of scarcity. We only have so much money together and the care is now in its total cost at a level that you have to pay a little attention that it all remains manageable. If you raise salaries, you have to do the same for the DOD, the police and the government. You have to do it in the other sectors too, otherwise those who are lagging behind will also think about the teachers on wages in health care. So I will say that we will not agree on it. The honest answer is also that we will not agree on it. I am your partner when it comes to job fun, work pressure and all the other things there we have money for a structural wage increase on the basis of the link to market wages, one time this year and one time next year an extra bonus. And we're going to see exactly where we need to make improvements. We're not gonna totally agree. Mrs. Marijnissen and I don't and that individual nurse and I don't, but it's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u188	You can say that the economy is bad and that there is scarcity: it is always there. If you know how to spend 2 billion for business, people working in care are not going to accept this. Rightly so, we made a promise. I fear that this autumn, opposition and coalition, we will continue to face each other, and that is not good for concern. I want to make a constructive proposal. That is that the cabinet, together with employers and workers in the care sector, is going to work on a healthcare agreement, as is often the case. In this way, we can identify with them where the problems are, with the promise that if we succeed in the short term, we will take responsibility for finding financial cover to resolve the bottlenecks that arise. Is the Prime Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u189	Well, we do it our way. We have the committee at the ESC. He looks specifically at the salaries. I have already outlined that we are working in close consultation with all those involved in health care on the outline note, which will appear before the VWS budget at first instance. That may not be exactly the form proposed by Mr Klaver, but I think it is the means to continue the discussion, including in the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u190	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u191	Finally. I find this bothersome and disturbing: we do it our way. The Prime Minister began to say this APB: what a good way to get through the crisis together as a political and as a society. And then he says, "We're gonna do it our way?" I'm making a constructive proposal. I don't put a demand on the table for a bag of money that needs to be added right away. I suggest that it is not invested in a committee and perhaps arranged at the formation, but that you work with employers, employees and government on a care agreement, to see if you can get out with each other. Then we should take responsibility together to cover the price tag that is attached to it. I find it almost rude to say "we do it our way."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u192	Well, then I choose those words wrong. I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u193	And with that, the opposition on the one hand and the coalition and the cabinet on the other are opposite. That's not good for people's confidence in politics. So I really hope the Prime Minister will see that this is a constructive proposal. I hope he'll think about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u194	I'm not excited about the shape. We're not here to sell each other tubers for lemons. In my opinion, we want the same thing in the end, namely that we can have that conversation. The form of such a care agreement doesn't immediately warm me up. That's what I'm allowed to say. When I say that we are trying to come to an agreement here, it is not the case that I have to accept every suggestion. I just thought we could get there from the content. From its content, the intention of such an ESC opinion in conjunction with the contour note is that we do have that informed conversation. So let me be more constructive. We take that thought with us to the treatment of the VWS budget. In the meantime, we are launching a number of actions as we intend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u195	You wanted to make a point of order, Mr. Klaver?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u196	Yes, a point of order. Indeed, the message just came in that André Rouvoet, the foreman of the GGD's, indicated that he could not or would not scale up. In fact, that is contrary to the test policy that the cabinet has just defended in the General Political Reviews. I would ask the Cabinet to come back to this as soon as possible, preferably before the second term, because we could then possibly discuss it as a Chamber and put forward motions on it. I'm very shocked, so I'd like to get a response to that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u197	I'm assuming they're listening in on official duty. I can't do two things at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u198	Then I have Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u199	May I add something to this point? If it doesn't work for the second term, I'd like to get a response from the cabinet in the letter that's coming tomorrow anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u200	I'd say so anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u201	I would like to know specifically whether Mr Rouvoet is talking about scaling up on top of the 70,000 we have planned for the autumn or whether he is talking about scaling up on top of the 30,000 we have today, which we all think is too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u202	Obviously. Let's see if we can do it sooner. At least the response will be in tomorrow's letter at the latest. Again, I can do a lot, but I can't follow the messages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u203	If it is correct, the settlement requested a debate on developments around corona. That debate will probably take place on Tuesday evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u204	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u205	We are approaching, it seems, the end of the Prime Minister's first term. I would like to join with Marijnissen and Klaver in arguing that we should do something about these healthcare salaries now, with an additional argument. That has to do with that message about what's happening at the G.D.D. We also see in an inspection report that the employees of the GGD, who have heard three times from Hugo de Jonge that money is not a problem, have very different experiences. We're picking up the signal that's stopping the organization. If you add that to the fact that care workers, apart from all the facts that have been mentioned about improvements in collective agreements last year, feel abandoned, then there is an additional argument to go back to the table with those people in care. I cannot stress this argument strongly enough: to prevent that second wave, to save lives and to save our economy. We must give these people the appreciation to ensure that these tests are extended. In fact, while you were just doing ten cubes in one, your announcement this morning was knocked down by Rouvoet and the G.D.D.'s.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u206	We will respond to that point. I do not know exactly what has been said by Mr Rouvoet, so it seems to me appropriate that we should respond to that in a structured manner, today or otherwise in tomorrow evening's progress letter, including Mr Jetten's supplementary questions. If you look at the sector itself, a number of issues need to be considered at the same time. Yeah, there's an issue about parole. Absolutely. We are now shaping this with twice a one-off contribution and by means of a more structured process to identify exactly what more needs to be done in addition to what is already happening automatically in the healthcare sector. In addition, there is another issue. This has to do with the fact that the people in the care naturally groan, worry and find something of their salaries. You're right. In addition, we also see in all the conversations we have, in all the studies, see also Van Ark's letter and how she explains it on the basis of all the research studies that, apart from the salary, there are a lot of other things that are not good in health care. This is mainly with the nurses, the people who work below the level of the doctors. That includes patient transport, logistics, cleaning and so on. That has to do with autonomy. That also has to do with being able to fill the job as well as possible. This has to do with issues of workload, career prospects and how contracts and schedules have been designed. We felt that it would be a good idea to put this into practice immediately. That's in this budget. This broad approach is being funded. In addition, there is therefore twice once money, on top of the normal salary increase in care, for which 1 billion will be available for next year. I understand that Mr Asscher says: I actually think you should do something structural right now, on top of that. I would ask politely for attention to be paid to the fact that we do not agree on this. My belief is that that means that if you do it there, it will also have to be for other sectors. In healthcare alone, this will have a huge financial impact. Probably 800,000 people out of 1.3 million people. These are also about the people who are now getting a bonus. This has consequences for police, defence and so on. Then, as much as you might want something, there are limits to what we can spend on extra money in this crisis. Mr Asscher will then say: yes, but the BIK. It's one-one. Of course, you must also continue to look at the burden on citizens and businesses, so that they can continue to do their job. You have to do everything at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u207	Finally. I understand it's gonna cost a lot of money if you give everyone a very big raise. I don't think that's the plea. The contrast is much more that the GGDs are trying to recruit HBOs as a call force at €10 per hour. You'll have to be available all day, from your own home, for that source and contact research. So there is a huge contrast between on the one hand the general discussion of "Watch out, the whole public sector, how are we going to pay" and the acute need now of people who say they are not ready for a second wave. They haven't recovered. They're worried about their own health. They cannot now be tested as a matter of priority and must continue to deal with complaints. The message of the cabinet is that we cannot do anything structuralally. My request would be that I do not necessarily have to reply now to the question of whether or not, thinking about tomorrow's press conference, to talk to the people in the care, to make sure that there really is now that structural appreciation. That's not for everyone and not to an extreme extent, but that's to make it clear that we really need to do it all together, because you can see that second wave coming. These are the people who have to stop them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u208	I get it, but I still do not see enough of what, apart from spending money on removing bottlenecks in terms of being directly attractive to work in healthcare, the 130 million per year, additional to the billion that is ready to increase salaries structurally by 2021, additional to twice a bonus. I understand very well that this will also help Mr Asscher's proposal, but I also have to note that this will give an additional financial impact. I therefore think it is not surprising that we should ask the care: let us map very precisely where an extra injection can best be worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u209	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u210	I have a brief point of order, Madam President. It was just about the media reporting on the message from the G.D.D. Our request is: if that information does come to the Chamber tonight with those answers or tomorrow, or if that letter can then be sent to us for information. This concerns the letter that appears to be in the possession of Trouw, written by the GGDs, by Rouvoet to VWS, to De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u211	I assume it's all being followed by officials, but I have no idea what the opinion is on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u212	Okay, you'll get back to that. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u213	I don't know what block the Prime Minister's monologue belongs in, but I want to talk to him about the rule of law. I wanted to talk about the fact that he has now become the prime minister of a corrupt country, where the rule of law has been buried. I would also like to explain that to him. I did the same thing to colleagues yesterday. You are Prime Minister of a country where there is a political trial against the leader of the opposition. A VVD Minister of Justice, Mr. Opstelten, together with his officials, had the Public Prosecutor's Office under control and helped to prosecute me. You are Prime Minister of a country where the judiciary is too cowardly to correct that. They were cowards. They dared not correct the missteps of that political influence. You are the Prime Minister of a country where the Public Prosecutor's Office measures with double standards. If you agree with the cabinet, or with the cabinet's vision, then the Prime Minister says that you must be faced with kindness and grace. If your name is Grapperhaus, you can break the law and then the Prime Minister says, "Well, there's nothing wrong, he said "sorry," right? But then Akwasi. We all remember him, Mr. Chairman. I won't repeat it all, but that's the man who said he'll kick people who play Black Piet in the face when he encounters them, that he'll execute Santa Claus and that he'll kill him. Yesterday, how crazy could it be in this country? He got a prize from the NPO because he'd be a hero. I'm sorry for the words, Madam President, but that's the dirty, dirty clique that covers each other. But if you're Geert Wilders, you're screwed. If you're an ordinary citizen sitting too close to someone else or if you're a restaurant owner committing an offence, you get a big fine. If you're a blockfries, your DNA will be taken. And, Madam President, if you're a state's attorney and you're in the same anti-discrimination club as Akwasi's boyfriend, you won't be prosecuted. You're gonna get your ass kicked. That's all random. That's pure randomness. That is corruption, and that is unworthy of the rule of law. And you're Prime Minister. And you're diving. I haven't heard you in my case in six years. It's a disgrace, Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u214	You want to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u215	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'll give it to you, because I'm assuming that's the point. First of all, the Akwasi case. The Public Prosecutor's Office has issued a statement on this, and Mr Wilders also knows that the cabinet cannot express itself or should not express itself on the substance of such a prosecution decision by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The same applies to personnel matters. That, I say for the people who are following the debate, has everything to do with how we organized it in the Netherlands. We are the legislative power here together. The government is a joint legislator with the Chamber, but it is also the executive. We are talking here about matters that are taking place in the judiciary and it is good practice not to let us know about them. Well, I'm not. I note that a statement has been issued on that case. I would like to say something about Mr Wilders' words in general, because these are qualifications that I cannot ignore. The rule of law is the most important public asset of this society. The rule of law ensures that we Wilders, me and all of us here are protected from the potential omnipotence of the government. That is basically what the rule of law means. The individual citizen is protected from the omnipotence of the government, which also possesses the various means of violence. It is therefore the basis of our democracy. The fact that we are a rule of law and that we are democratic also means that we can be socially and economically strong and that equality of opportunity is the norm in the Netherlands. And that rule of law, Chairman, is not a quiet possession. At all events, the free Dutch values are not self-evident; they must be defended. Then you do talk about freedom of speech. I said it earlier today. But it also means that you can love whoever you want. That's what I said earlier today. You can marry whoever you want, and you can defend the values that we all care about. If Mr Wilders says this, it says something about our police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and our legal profession at the same time. They are all on the front line of our rule of law. Together, but each in its own role, they protect us as a country, so that we can act against this ruthless crime, so that we can act against arbitrariness and violence, so that we can act against the state absolutism mentioned by Van der Staaij. They do so with great commitment and independence. They do so carefully and sometimes with great personal danger. In response to Mr Wilders' words, I would at least like to say that the cabinet attaches the utmost importance to the strength and vitality of our rule of law, and that for that reason, fortunately, we never discuss whether we should invest heavily in it. We have complete and total confidence in the independence of our magistrate, the sitting and the standing. And I'd like to express our full support for these people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u216	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u217	The opposite is the case. They're corrupt. They're corrupt to the bone. Corrupt, Mr. Prime Minister! The rule of law is buried. Here the leader of the largest opposition party in the Dutch parliament speaks. Perhaps I am not a prime minister, but I say, and the whole of the Netherlands can hear it: the rule of law is bankrupt and they are corrupt. What else do you call it, Mr. Prime Minister, that a MP who asks a question about Moroccans is in court for six years? That MP is then sentenced to insult, but an Akwasi who calls for violence, who calls for murder, who calls for execution, is not prosecuted. It's not being prosecuted! It even gets a price from the state broadcaster. He's not being prosecuted because a boyfriend of his from Kick Out Zwarte Piet was on the board with the district attorney who said a few weeks later that he didn't need to be prosecuted. That's not justice, is it? That's not a rule of law, is it? How about that Minister of Justice, Mr. Grapperhaus, your boyfriend, who normally sits next to you in that trade "K." He broke the rules. Then 'equal monks, equal hoods' and the rule of law would mean that he, like any citizen who violates that ridiculous one-and-a-half-metre rule, would receive the same treatment; that they or all would not be punished. That would be my preference, by the way, or that, if you have that punishment, it would apply to everyone. That this applies to that citizen who is too close to another, that it applies to the holder of that restaurant in the catering industry, but also to the Minister of Justice. And what are you doing? Dirty boyfriend politics. You are sitting here in the Chamber. It is really terrible how you did that last week to speak of kindness and mercy. Rutte wants kindness and mercy for his colleague, because he is dependent on the CDA to keep his cabinet up. But if you're a blockfries, your name is Geert Wilders, or if you're a citizen who violates the law, you don't get any kindness and mercy, but you get thrown off the flat. Because of you and those judges and because of that corrupt................................................................................................................................................... Officials of the District Attorney's Office, who are in a hotline of discrimination with Akwasi's boyfriend. That stinks, Mr. Prime Minister, and if you agree to it, you stink, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u218	Well, the best proof that we are a rule of law is that Mr Wilders can say all this here. And that also belongs in a democracy. But I'm allowed to respond to that, too, and I gave it to you. I have already explained why I do not say more about the Akwasi case than I said: it has to do with the separation of powers. I would also like to refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u219	Mr Azarkan and then Mr Jetten. No? Mrs. Ouwehand one more question? No? You don't have to. No, you don't. Then Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. Mrs. Marijnissen has already been. So I have Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u220	That short and concise, that didn't work out, I guess. At least not from the side of speaker Wilders. That's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u221	Well, nobody's gonna stick to that. At first things went well, but then things went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u222	Sure. I will give the example; I know that can be done. I have a question about racism and discrimination. I heard the Prime Minister mention a lot of measures there and that actually sounded pretty good. I'm glad he reported it. I also read in the analysis of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau the expectation that the most vulnerable groups will also be able to say so, as the Prime Minister himself said: young people, people with migrants will get it extra hard, because corona will hit those people the hardest. What's this Prime Minister gonna do extra for those groups to stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u223	I have said something about young people in general. I also said something about the fact that corona, of course, also affects people with a migrant background, that that is the case. I should actually like to refer to that answer. I have just mentioned all these arguments. It may have happened quickly, but a lot of questions have also been asked and I thought I would help the Chamber by not talking unnecessarily slowly. But I also hope not too soon, with a stenographer present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u224	It was indeed very fast and it felt a bit like a shoulder, something that needed to be removed for a while. I think we should think about this a little bit longer, because it is really a serious problem. Not for nothing was opportunity inequality also in the coalition agreement. The Prime Minister just spoke very warmly about our rule of law. It was literally written, and I assume he has written along with it, he will have seen the text in advance, and probability is a danger to the quality of our rule of law. Then I think we should do something for that, too. As we feel it is important to protect jobs, our security, the connection in society and our identity, that is what the Prime Minister indicated as priorities.................................................................................................................................................................................. A problem that affects millions of Dutch people and has grown over the past ten years. We see that people with a migrant's arrival are indeed difficult to get to a home, that they are difficult to get an internship. We must make greater efforts to achieve this inequality. My question to the Prime Minister is: what else is he going to do now than what he indicated? He said he talked to a group of people. That's really good. He then said he was going to talk to someone else. But does he come up with something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u225	I mentioned a lot of things. Apart from the fact that we are also standardizing here, and I do not think that if you have a normalized debate, which must necessarily be accompanied by additional legislation or notes, much is happening in this case. I have talked about the role of the government and how we do it ourselves, including in our systems. I referred to the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan, which, I think, directly affects the point Mr Azarkan mentioned here. I talked about the bill the Secretary of State for Social Affairs sent to the Council of State. This concerns the role of the Inspection SZW to monitor the presence and implementation of a method of recruitment and selection among employers with sufficient safeguards against discrimination. I have spoken about the Further Integration Programme in the Labour Market. I talked about the Delphi investigation. Those are all activities we undertake. I do not believe that we are reducing the problem by adding an action plan to it. I think we are only reducing this problem by doing all of these things that we have put in place, but above all by not thinking: because all of these things are now going on, it is now the problem of government or politics. Not that Mr Azarkan says that, but that is the risk. That is the same risk that you run when one colleague in the cabinet is responsible for emancipation, for enough women in all kinds of top positions. Then the rest of the cabinet thinks: fine, I don't have to do anything about this anymore, because Mrs X or Mrs Y is responsible for it now. We're all responsible for this. The risk with all these legislation and notes is always that others can think: nice, it's not my problem anymore, it's covered. No, it remains everyone's personal responsibility, each in its own place. That is so essential. If we can contribute to that debate today, even now that it is perhaps partly live on television throughout the Netherlands, it is that we make it clear that that is the most stupid thing you can do: to distinguish between people, not by their qualities or their talents, but by things that they themselves have nothing to do with or have nothing to do with their functioning, such as their faith, their origin, their sexual orientation, their skin colour, whatever. That is so essential. You also take away so much more opportunities to perform better as an employer by having that mix of people young and old, man and woman, white and black, gay and straight............................................................................................................................... That is so essential. I would like to say this once again here, rather than say again: can we add an eleventh action plan to the ten action plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u226	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u227	We are all responsible, but here is the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. A lot of people look at him. I did that in the past, before I was a Member of Parliament. Sometimes I felt abandoned, because I felt that he, for example in the case of "Mo, fight you in," should not have said "Mo, fight you in," but "As Prime Minister I will do everything in my power to ensure that every citizen in this country gets the same opportunities. You're gonna have to grab it yourself." I agree. But that must be accompanied by action. Because here's a prime minister who makes the choice how he spends the money. I ran through the budget. I just don't see any intensification. I don't see any extra resources to really protect people, hundreds of thousands of people, maybe 1.5 to 2 million people. The corona crisis is going to unpack. It cannot be that it is even harder for those who are already vulnerable, for those who do not already come to a home, who often have a flex job, who often have a lower wage. It can't be that they're being dealt with harder. I ask the Prime Minister: take a good look at that. What can the Cabinet do for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u228	Very briefly about the fight. I didn't say that I think it's a good thing that Mo and Fatima have to fight, but I did say the following. All the legislation, everything we do, is aimed at Mo and Fatima having the same chance as Piet and Mieke. But it can happen in your life that you still have to deal with discrimination, no matter how stupid and stupid it is. Then you have a choice. Then you have the choice to say, "Okay, this is happening to me now, here I leave it at," or to say, "I fight through." Then you know that you live in a country where that can happen, but where you can eventually become mayor of Rotterdam. That was my message with fighting, nothing else, nothing more and nothing less. I also referred to the fact that Koolmees and myself, and a number of colleagues, had the kick-off of a series of talks on 28 September. We will probably report back to the Chamber on this later. Let me say to Mr Azarkan that we are therefore taking into account the point contained in his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u229	The topics are getting a bit out of hand, but I would like to ask you about the health bonus and the healthcare salaries. I fully support Mrs Marijnissen's plea. I also consider Mr Klaver's proposal to be a very constructive one. But how long is it going to take, suppose this committee comes up with a reconnaissance and say that the cabinet, and the next cabinet, really intends to raise salaries? I am really curious: how long will it take the care workers to actually get a higher salary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u230	The intention is that that exploration is completed at the beginning of the next formation, before 1 April, so that it is part of that formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u231	You'd almost think it was a joke. The health bonus. My motion was passed in March. Now it has become known that on Christmas not even all health bonuses are paid out to those care heroes. Then there'll be a commission. It's about something much more complex: what pay scales, which care workers, who should get some? That €1,000 net for all care heroes was still quite an easy task. It'll take a year. Some people only get a year after the motion has been adopted which is €1,000 net in their bank account. How long the hell is it gonna be before those salaries go up? 'Cause we're gonna get a commission and he's gonna do a recon. It will be ready in April next year, we hope. Then there's a new cabinet and then there's formation. If formed as long as the present cabinet, we will be at the end of October next year. Then it still needs to be converted into policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u232	So how long is it gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u233	How long the hell is it gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u234	Yes. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u235	Next year, 1 billion will be ready for raises in health care. It's ready. This is about what you're gonna do in addition to that. So we have the bonuses, this year €1,000 and next year €500. That's one. Two: the billion that is ready for further increases in collective bargaining wages. That's lower than anticipated because contract wages are rising less, but there's a billion for it. In addition, this committee comes to the beginning of the formation with its reporting, so our goal is, so that it is part of the formation discussions. So it's not like nothing's gonna happen next year. Next year there will be the one-off second bonus. Next year there will be collective bargaining with the billion extra. In addition, it is intended to take decisions in that formation on what should be done very precisely with the healthcare salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u236	This is exactly the same story as before, and I'm not gonna fall for it. Indeed, the 1 billion is only 3% of a nurse's minimum wage. That's almost nothing. If you look at the workload and how many people want to leave care while we need every caregiver, as Mrs Marijnissen said, I think this is really too weak. This is already a sliding cabinet on many subjects. If we don't get along with the next cabinet and that's another sliding cabinet, it's just not gonna work with those higher salaries in care. We're sitting here today with a new record of contagion. We're on the verge of a new wave. The Netherlands is not ready for this new wave and the care workers certainly are not. I think this is a very important point. We're gonna need more speed in here. This is really very painful for all those care heroes who are at risk for their own lives fighting for the lives of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u237	Yes, and that is such an important work that I would like to outline the fact that collective agreements in hospitals and in ambulance services have increased by 5% on 1 January 2020 and will increase by a further 3% on 1 January next. In the nursing homes and the nursing home there was an increase of 3.5% in June of this year and there will be 3% next July. There is now 1 billion ready for further increases in collective bargaining wages. There is the health bonus: €1,000 this year and €500 next year. So it's not like there's nothing going on waiting for that committee to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u238	Finally, on this point, you know, because this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u239	And the 130 million for taking away...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u240	...asked a lot of times. I hear a lot of repetitions on this point, no matter how important it is. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u241	Thank you, Mr President. I understand. The Prime Minister keeps repeating, also the percentage increases in salaries in the care sector. I want you to figure out how much that net is for a care worker. That's almost nothing. And given the workload and everything that's been cut in healthcare over the last few years... It's just sad, and I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u242	There's no cutting back on care, you know. No way. Billions have been added. There hasn't been a dime cut on care. Tens of billions have been added in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u243	Then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u244	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his glowing, passionate response to Mr Wilders. For Mr Wilders has been here for two days in fact poisoning our rule of law, our independent judges and the public prosecutor who has to do his job here and then it is extremely important that not only the House of Representatives, but also the Prime Minister stand up and speak up against those terrible words and stand up for independent Dutch justice. But if I let the little debate just get into my head, I have a bit of a feeling that there are some points in it. This Prime Minister sometimes tends to respond to current events with some double standards. Because if there are young people demonstrating for climate and setting themselves at a crossroads somewhere in Amsterdam, if protesters from Black Lives Matter go over the lines somewhere, or if young people in a neighbourhood show absolutely unacceptable behavior in setting things on fire, then the Prime Minister always has very heavy words ready. "Fuck off, fuck off, scumbags" are words that are used quickly. And in recent years I have been disturbed by the fact that in other demonstrations, such as those of farmers who go far too far, the Prime Minister is actually expressing himself much more calmly. Then he says: yes, everyone in this country can demonstrate, but you can follow the rules. That double reaction of the Prime Minister does have the effect that some of the Dutch don't always feel represented by him either. So here's what I'd like to ask him. He was just passionately defending the rule of law against Mr Wilders. From now on, with the same passion, does he always want to judge in the same way about people who do not follow the rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u245	I would think I would do that, and if things weren't right, they would have to be appointed. So when a group of Dutch youngsters from apparently Turkish origin are demonstrating on a bridge in Rotterdam, I find that uncomfortable, but that is allowed. But then if a camera crew who is also present there is made impossible the work, and with that the free press cannot do its work, then I only have one word for it. Then I say: if you're so sorry here that you can't, then fuck off. I stood and I supported it. So you will continue to hear me speak of such things in a normal manner. If farmers demonstrate and make a mess of The Hague here, I say: this can no longer be done, you have to abide by the instructions given by the authorities. That's what I said on camera in November. So I always try, in all these cases, to express myself equally. That will sometimes be firm and sometimes not in the tone that Mr Jetten wants or who wants someone else. That's the way the bird's beaked. But I still choose to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u246	The crux is, of course, that you are treated equally in this country, and that your background should absolutely never be taken into account in the judgment that someone feels about that. So I would like to challenge the Prime Minister once again, with the same passion as Mr Wilders, to speak about the independence of our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u247	At least that's what I'm trying to do. And Mr Jetten will decide at once whether it has been successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u248	I suggest you answer the other two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u249	Yes, there are a few more questions about justice and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u250	Then we'll move on to the second term. And after the second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u251	Let's take a short break, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u252	Yeah, sure. I think it's very handsome of you, because you've been standing for almost seven hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u253	Yeah, but that's good to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u254	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u255	A few questions have been asked about justice and security. We have been asked whether the penalties for drug crime should be raised significantly. I refer to the broad offensive against organised undermining crime, which is a top priority for the cabinet. It will be invested in 141 million in 2021 and will increase structurally to 150 million from 2022 onwards. This includes a package of legislation to tackle drug crime. On 1 January last, the penalty for participating in a criminal organisation increased from six to ten years. The penalty for possession of, and trade in, automatic firearms and heavy explosives has been increased from four to eight years in prison. Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether the unrest in the major cities is also a problem of integration. In the general discussion two weeks ago, on 3 September, about unrest and violence, there was talk of integration problems among some of the Dutch young people. It has indeed been established that there are young people who are not well integrated. That's what the Cabinet is paying attention to. This is also part of the question I mentioned and which is crucial for the longer term, for the next five to ten years, namely: how will the Netherlands remain? That also means that people who come from outside need to know what they're integrating into. Fortunately, this is one of the things that we are doing much better in education with this cabinet when it comes to civic education. They need to know that some things are unnegotiable. I refer to freedom of expression, equality between men and women, homosexual and heterosexual, white and black. I call it the rule of law. All these things are non-negotiable. It is very important to let people know what they need to integrate into. On last summer's riots, the conclusion has been that they took place in any case in a restless summer. There have been disturbances in several major cities. Several actors and factors played a role in this. There seems to have been a combination of pure boredom and thus unacceptable behavior, heat, vacation. The question is whether this was primarily linked to a lack of integration or whether there were simply troublemakers who could no longer contain themselves. That was also the discussion on 3 September. The police also notes that the groups involved in this unrest are diverse in composition. You saw that in Utrecht it was mainly Dutch-Moroccan young people. In The Hague they were also native Dutch and, if you also see the photos, mostly adults. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the question of whether we want to commit ourselves to digital sovereignty. Increasing digital resilience takes place nationally based on the Dutch Cybersecurity Agenda. The National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security, the NCTV, coordinates this integrated approach. It can also play the role of what I believe Mr Van der Staaij meant by a 'general'. So you could say the general's here. Digitisation is the driving force behind innovation and activity. It is important that the foundations are well secured. For example, public values and human rights are protected through different laws and regulations such as the human rights treaties, of course our Constitution, but also regulations such as the General Data Protection Regulation. When it comes to national security risks, such as espionage, sabotage and strategic dependencies, the safeguards are taken up under the coordination of NCTV. I invite Mr Van der Staaij to do so in the second term, perhaps, to see if there are any additional reasons for doing so, but if you listen to his speech, you would think that is well invested in the role of the NCTV in itself. But I am, of course, open to additional suggestions. Then there was the question of Mr Heerma of the CDA and Mr Segers of the Christian Union on the advice of the WRR to create a safety planning agency. That opinion was contained in the report on security in an increasingly diffuse network world. Mr Heerma rightly points to new threats to our security. Since 2017, strong steps have been taken in acting as a single government when it comes to vulnerabilities in national security. We look at safety as well as security. These are more natural threats, but also threats that come from humans, including terrorism threats and digital threats such as cyber attacks. The Minister of Defence informed your Chamber in 2018 on behalf of the Cabinet that it was not chosen to find a solution in new structures, but to invest in better coordination and analysis. Based on the Integrated Designation, the AIVD and the STIVD have the task of portraying these sometimes unprecedented and sometimes known threats. We are making less and less distinctions between national and international security, because they are indeed inextricably linked. I also refer to the Integrated Foreign and Security Strategy published in 2018 and the National Security Strategy published in 2019, which is based on an integrated risk analysis by an independent analyst network. The next product, the midterm review, is scheduled for December. It is coordinated by the NCTV mentioned above. When offering the midterm review of the National Security Strategy to your Chamber, the Minister of Justice, on behalf of the Cabinet, will comment on the suggestion made by both parties for a security planning agency. This gives the cabinet the opportunity to see how such a planning agency can be of added value and can be practically organized. In other words, we will weigh that again. On this basis, the Chamber can then discuss with the Minister of Justice and Security a planning office for security and its possible added value in relation to the current working methods. At present, the added value of the cyclic integral is already evident every day, so is both national and international in terms of safety as well as security, and independently organising the analysis of the threat picture. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to a single question about the Tax Administration. The possibility to open more offices and counters was asked for, so that the Tax Administration is more accessible. Barracks are indeed an important part of the Tax Office. The Secretary of State for Finance also sent a letter earlier this week. Citizens can currently be helped at 21 tax office desks. The Secretary of State Vijlbrief and Van Huffelen are working on a plan to improve the quality and quantity of service at the counters. They know there are white spots in the accessibility. They will examine ways of improving accessibility to ensure good access to a desk location. They expect to have this plan ready in the second quarter of next year. They also include Mrs Marijnissen's suggestion. Then there is Mrs Marijnissen's question: does the Prime Minister recognise that full automatic discrimination by the Tax Office has brought humanity out of the system and how can parents still wait for compensation? Until 1 November, Mrs Marijnissen said, no payments are made; what is your promise, therefore, that mine is worth to settle this year? I would like to comment on this, first of all on the issue of discrimination in the Tax Administration and the recovery for parents who have suffered from problems with surcharges. The AP, the Personal Data Authority, found that there was discrimination in the Tax Administration and that people were more likely to be controlled on the basis of their nationality, without any objective justification. Equal cases should always be treated equally, so this should never have happened. The problems of childcare have completely lost sight of the human dimension. It is precisely for this reason that the proper handling of the recovery is essential, also for restoring confidence in the government as such. Also in the Throne speech, attention was rightly paid to this. Secretary of State Van Huffelen, together with your colleagues, Chairman, has drawn up an arrangement for the proposal, but it has been the subject of an intensive debate and I think it has also been agreed to do justice to the suffering of the affected parents. It was agreed that tailor-made work would be provided and that dossiers would be dealt with in full. All the arrangements are examined in the context of the comprehensive examination. A combination of multiple schemes thus leads to a longer treatment period before parents are actually helped. The aim is and will continue to be to compensate the injured parents as soon as possible, but care and proper handling are important to ensure that parents get what they are entitled to. As Secretary of State Van Huffelen explained in her letter of 18 August last year, the initial experience of the recovery process has shown that the desire to balance all these components is more complex and time-consuming than initially assumed. In addition to the greater complexity, it also appears that many dossiers cover a broader issue. That is something that can be discovered as debt problems and, of course, as we know, psychological problems. Finally, it appeared that the recovery operation was not yet sufficiently robust to achieve the desired degree of speed, care and service. It now takes time to get the necessary human resources in order, partly because it is mainly specialised functions for which it is difficult to recruit. It is extremely regrettable that it takes more time. That sucks. But it is not in the best interests of parents to continue in the same way, against better knowledge, and to find out later that it is going to take longer before they get the right compensation. That is why Secretary of State Van Huffelen has taken the decision and has had to take the decision. I support that to take extra time to ensure that the organisation is properly organised so that the files can be handled in a careful and correct manner. This was discussed in a general consultation on 20 August, in which it also promised to come up with an adapted plan of action. She will share that plan of approach as part of the progress report on the childcare allowance, which will be sent to the First and Second Chambers at the end of this month. So this is coming up soon. The poster plan will include planning, including an end date, in which order different groups of parents will be helped. Of course, priority will be given to the most poignant cases. This doesn't mean no parents are being helped right now. Parents in acute problems are also being treated as a matter of urgency in these weeks. From 1 November, larger numbers of parents can be helped. Again, I repeat: this is not the ideal solution. Together with Mrs Van Huffelen, I would have liked us to be able to pay out large groups of people already. However, given the situation, I do believe that at the moment this is the best way to deal with it, and the wisest way to decide, however difficult it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u256	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u257	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u258	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u259	Apologies have been made, but excuses can't pay bills. Last Christmas, I was packing Christmas packages with the affected parents of the supplemental affair. That was because for the umpteenth year they threatened to go to a Christmas in which they could not buy their families a present for their children for Christmas. I would really like to ask the Prime Minister: should it not be possible to give these parents the guarantee that they will not have to go through another Christmas? I actually want to hear from the Prime Minister today. The excuses have been made, but the bills cannot be paid. That is why I want at least the promise that these parents will not have to spend another year such a Christmas, but that it will be settled before the holiday month begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u260	I can't give you that guarantee. I'm not going to say any falsehoods here. I can't give you that guarantee. Every effort is being made to do it as quickly as possible, but that guarantee cannot be given. I'm so sorry. I am as sorry as Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Van Huffelen, but care and proper handling are crucial here. We made the agreement to deal with this in its entirety, to look at those arrangements in their entirety. So that's my honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u261	I would like to comment on the issue of digital security. The Prime Minister just said: we think that is actually going pretty well at the moment. In the rest of the world, we've been diving into it. Actually, we thought it was pretty shredded. Experts in this field also say it: there is a coordinating director of digitization, the Secretary of State EZK, the digital government is under Home Affairs and the cyber approach is with JenV but partly also with Defence. Is this coherence guaranteed? Some say "this is a vital sector" or "this is another non-vital sector." We were looking, too. In what departmental budget should you discuss this? That's hard, too, just because it's about so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u262	A committee on economic security has been active in the cabinet for some time now. Now that there is this concern, I think it is good that we should explain again how these things are interrelated, perhaps in the run-up to the budget of Justice or EZK. We're gonna check on one of those two. This underlines once again the point that these two need to work together very well, and fortunately they do. I'll take another look. Kajsa, what do you think? Honestly, I think it's the justice budget. So you're talking about the issue of digital sovereignty. And then we take into account Mr Van der Staaij's concerns: is it now sufficiently secure? My view would be that we covered it up with that Committee on Economic Security and the Safety Research Council itself, which meets every Tuesday. Mr Van der Staaij does not cause me to be alarmed, but at least he gives me reason to dive into it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u263	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. There is a need for a brief ten-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u264	Oh, good! Luxury!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u265	Then we'll go to the second term on the side of the Chamber. Then we'll suspend for dinner break. I see Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u266	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I start in the second term and I really need more than ten minutes. I'm really sorry. It has never happened that between the first term of the government and the second term of the Chamber is ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u267	What are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u268	Well, at least half an hour. We're gonna have to start writing the second term. If possible, half an hour. I'll let you suspend for dinner, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u269	Then that's like dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u270	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u271	Then that's what we'll do. Everyone's okay with that? Then I'll suspend for half an hour. I'm not gonna negotiate dinner break anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u272	No, Mr. Chairman, but if this is dinner break right away, then half an hour is too short. So either we suspend right before dinner break, then we've had it and then there's Mr. Wilders' half-hour in there,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u273	You will be supported by the Cabinet, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u274	The Prime Minister wants to eat unpainted vegetables! I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u275	I suggest we suspend until 6:45, and then we just move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u276	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u277	Thank you, Madam President. Sometimes it seems as if the Prime Minister, the coalition and a large part of the Chamber live in another world and on another planet. Or maybe I do; it depends on which side you're looking at it. It seems as if they, the Prime Minister and a large part of the Chamber, are totally unaware of and blind to the great problems that so many people in our beautiful country experience every day. Because the state of the Netherlands is not good. The Netherlands is in a bad way. Ten years of Prime Minister Rutte has not done the Netherlands any good. The Prime Minister has given away whatever he could give away. Look at our insecurity. Look at the street terror. Look at the Moroccan terror. Look at our daughters and our sons. The wives in the Netherlands who have often been declared outlawed in their own streets and neighborhood. People who feel like strangers in their own country. The advancing headscarf regimes in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. This should also be discussed in the General Political Reviews, in the state of our country. The violence. The discrimination, but also, right, the discrimination against Dutch people. We're and we're being colonized. By Arabs, by Muslims. And if you complain about that, because you don't recognize your own country anymore and think, "What neighborhood or street did I end up in?', You'll be called a racist. While these people aren't racist. Madam President. I will not repeat it all, but I still find it incredibly wrong and arbitrary that people like Akwasi, but also Minister Grapperhaus, seem to get away with everything. They get away with excuses, as long as they fit in the vein of sitting power or the Amsterdam canal belt. They are pissed off by friendly people, such as prosecutors who sit on a board together with their friends, while all those, including all those ordinary citizens, who break the law do not get away with a "sorry" or can count on the Prime Minister's mercy, but are screwed. Mr. Chairman. I heard one of the most shocking remarks made by the Prime Minister just before the suspension for dinner break. The Prime Minister addressed the unrest on the beach in Scheveningen and elsewhere in the Netherlands last summer. He said this was mostly due to boredom. This is not only the state of the country, but this is about the state of the VVD and of this Prime Minister: the only thing he actually had to say about everything that happened there is that this was mainly due to boredom. What did we see on the beach at Scheveningen? We've seen people waving guns there. We saw a deadly stabbing there. We've seen violence there. We saw that there was a trade in cocaine and nitrous oxide. We've seen mischief of immigrants there. Instead of them being tackled and the Prime Minister putting the police or the army against those people for all I care, and not the farmers, he says it's because of boredom. He won't get past that. Madam President. That is the state of the Netherlands after ten years of Rutte: the misery and violence that people encounter every day, even in their spare time in the summer, in the scarce holidays they have, the Prime Minister dismisses as "boys who are bored." Madam President. The Prime Minister is throwing away everything we have and what our parents and grandparents have built. What they fought for and died for. Our culture. Our national identity. Our tricolor. Our safety. Our sovereignty. The Prime Minister draws the total, but also total, capitulation. But he also throws away our money. I'm sticking with it. In the second term, too, I can only repeat this. It is hard to believe that in this difficult crisis, the Prime Minister is giving 50 billion hard Dutch euros to gifts and loans to southern Europe. It's pouring away. Loans are given. And he's gonna let our own people down. Our elders. Our pensioners. He cut their pension. Because that's what happens. He's making them turn in their purchasing power. And in all those other countries, they're all gonna do great things with our money. I call lowering VAT, raising pensions. In France, how many times have I said it here? All of them! Through our money! Give away, like he gave away our whole country for ten years. By Mark Rutte. Mr. Chairman. I believe that the PVV does believe in the power of our own people, in the strength of our own culture and identity, in the fact that we should not let our people talk that we are not good or that we are racists when we stand up for our own country and our own culture. And that's what we're missing in this country. We have a Prime Minister who wants and can rule from left to right to center, with everyone, and who has lost his own identity in that process. He doesn't have his own identity anymore. That's why he can do it, from left to right to center. And if you don't feel like you have something, you don't feel like you're giving something away. And the Prime Minister, probably without knowing, gives away what the Netherlands stands for. I'm not giving that away. I dream of a Netherlands... and that dream can become reality.. in which we do make the right choices, in which we put the Netherlands back on 1, in which we are proud of our country, in which we give nothing away, in which we are Dutch and remain Dutch and put the Netherlands back on 1st. Mr. Chairman. I'll conclude with a few motions. The first one is about the money. I was just talking about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to remove the signature of Prime Minister Rutte at the European Summit under the EUR 750 billion recovery package (gifts and loans) and not to give the EUR 50 billion of Dutch money to Southern European countries but to spend in our own country;]] [[calls on the government also to increase the amount of money in the Dutch purse by significantly reducing the burden, by reducing the low VAT rate to 0% for a year, significantly reducing the energy tax and significantly reducing the rents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u278	A motion for a resolution on pensioners who are unpacked year in, year out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas pensioners have for years felt the financial consequences of non-indexing and it is indecent to bring pensioners into even greater financial problems;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the threat of pension reductions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u279	Then a motion on my trial, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the leader of the largest opposition party in the Netherlands, the MP Wilders, has again been brought to justice in a political trial for the past six years;]] [[declares that the political debate should take place in the Lower House of the States-General instead of in the courtroom and that this political trial against the Member of Parliament Wilders should never have taken place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u280	Mr. Chairman. Then there's a motion on immigration. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that during ten years of Rutte 750,000 non-Western immigrants entered our country, costing more than EUR 100 billion;]] [[noting that by far-reaching Islamization many Dutch people no longer recognize their own country;]] [[calls on the government to close the borders for immigrants from Islamic countries, thereby preventing Islamisation and marokcanisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u281	Finally, a motion on salaries in health care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to significantly increase the salaries of healthcare workers in all healthcare sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u282	Finally, we have a final motion, but I see a colleague at the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u283	It depends on what you're going to ask about the motion. Yesterday we debated almost two hours with Mr Wilders. When it comes to the motions, it's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u284	It concerns a motion that I have already tabled on the remuneration of mink, which has been made clear in the debate today. I would like to know what Mr Wilders thinks about that. Shall I do that now or shall I wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u285	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u286	I was wondering what the PVV said in that. If you have to intervene on the basis of public health, you are not obliged to compensate. That became clear today. Fortunately, the cabinet gives support packages, because we do not entirely leave entrepreneurs to their fate. But for the minks it chooses a very expensive and unnecessary route. The PVV has supported the motion of the Party for Animals asking for route 1. Thank you for that. But also the plan of the CDA asking for a fur bonus. I was wondering what the PVV is like in there now. Because if one entrepreneur gets €1.360,000, so do other entrepreneurs, and that might be a bit of a waste of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u287	No, we don't support the Animal Party in this. We are glad that these mink farms are closing, which we have always advocated and supported. But then let me agree with the cabinet once. At the time when your companies are obliged to close in against their will, there must also be a reasonable remuneration. If you think it's too much, we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u288	Mrs. Van Brenk. No, Mrs Ouwehand, we are not going to have the debate on mink again. Mr Wilders has made it clear that he does not support this. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u289	We have an almost identical motion on the pension rebates, so the question is actually quite simple: may my name be under Mr Wilders's same motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u290	Of course, I'm proud to add your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u291	We're about to change it. I see sign language with Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u292	Are there others? Mr. Heerma, perhaps? No? Do we want to make a bridge once, Mr. Heerma...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u293	Isn't the weather okay? One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u294	Well, a comment. I have two minutes left. Those are a few long remarks. One more motion, which is about arbitrariness; I would like to emphasise it in one way, apart from my own process. The arbitrariness is that you're gonna get in trouble and you're gonna get prosecuted when you disagree with the Cabinet. I just told you. If you are, or if you fit in that alley and you have a friendly officer, you're not being prosecuted. That's random. Hence the next motion, even if it's just for the history books. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Mr Akwasi made the following statements and posted Twitter messages:]] [["the moment I see a Black Piet in November, I will personally kick it on his face."]] [["what do I provoke if I kill a black guy?';]] [["Black Pete must die, man. Seriously. #Hire murder';]] [["Anybody ever gonna shoot a Black Pete again or do I have to do it? #damn';]] [["Every day when I wake up I hit a cross and say: FIRE BURN BLACK PIET.';]] [["#I hate Saint Nicholas with so much passion that if I had a child, I would train him/her to liquidate Saint Nicholas. Hypocritical bullshit.';]] [["They should ride in on the entrance of sinterklaas... YES WHAT?!!Hahaha';]] [["Can someone shoot sintering cheese off that boat this year, I'll put $500 on his head.// Braapp!!!';]] [[noting that the Public Prosecutor considers that Mr. Akwasi's statements are inflammatory and therefore punishable, but decided not to prosecute him;]] [[noting that District Attorney Vreekamp was also chairman of the Amsterdam District Attorney's Office, in which Mr.Esajas, foreman of Kick Out Zwarte Piet (KozP) also has an administrative function,]] [[Speaks out of rejecting the legal arbitrariness of our Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u295	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u296	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about a strong government in the first place, fair trade and less dependence. I think we've talked a lot about the strong government these days. I think there is also a perspective for cooperation. I believe that helping people who lose their jobs actively to the next job, as Mr Asscher argued, is logical and sensible in these times. And no, then we don't know exactly how many jobs that will create or how many people you can lead from one job to another. But it does sound like something that is politically sensible and needs to be explored further. We also talked about how the government takes more direction, ensures that houses are built and how the government helps prevent people from getting in trouble by limiting the rent increase. Mr Klaver asked about the latter. We will look into whether the current proposal is adequate or needs to be tightened up. Then: fair trade and stand up for one's own entrepreneurs. I didn't always feel the same support there. Reducing the burden increase for companies via the BIK is suddenly called a gift. People want to know in advance exactly how many jobs that will create. That is impossible; we do not ask for that in other measures either. You can't keep weighing down the burdens on companies. The budget itself is already doing so by increasing the burden by 700 million by following the opinions of the Ter Haar Committee. That is wise in itself, because you are scorching away detours that have been used too often to avoid burdens, but it is a burden increase. We also do this by allowing companies to contribute to the reduction of CO emissions in our country. And that is also what we are doing to avoid household energy bills by shifting the burden to entrepreneurs. You can't keep doing that. I always support it and they are responsible choices, but it does add up. You can't keep doing it indefinitely if you have a heart for entrepreneurs and even if you have us on board. So we have also taken measures to reduce the burden on companies. That can be called an isolated load relief, but you can't do that if you add it up and look at it on balance. This can be done by reducing the tax on profits. I thought that was a great plan. We have now come up with something else, also in view of the crisis we are in, namely through some kind of investment trigger. We think that's more effective now. We have changed the package to focus it more on small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as I'm concerned, it's a reduction in the burden. If the BIK doesn't like the colleagues, then we can just lower the profit tax, right? We can raise the limit for the low rate or lower the high rate. A job guarantee will not help you very much if there will be less work because there will be less investment. The opposition is right to say that cooperation must take account of each other and of each other's ideas. But yes, so must we. The VVD just wants to reduce the burden and focus that dampening on all those hard-working entrepreneurs who create jobs and taxes. This means that we pay for care, education and safety. I regret that many parties choose to focus on spending taxpayers' money and not on the fact that we have to work together first. Anyway, if you keep doing that, it'll be up at some point. You can all find that winning is more important than scoring goals, but without goals you're not gonna win. Mr President, the third point is to be less dependent. That brings me to nuclear power. Waste is then a big problem and waste is always there. I saw today images, not beautiful images, of what we do with windmills when they've had their time. We all put them on the ground, together. You can't process them, so we throw sand over them. Literally. Then we bury them and pretend they're not here. There is always waste, there are always costs and especially if we no longer want to rely on cheap items that emit CO. The business case Mr. Klaver mentioned is mainly around when you emit CO. If you don't want to emit CO, you have to do it differently, but then you also have to run the energy case around. You must always be able to count on enough power for our society. You should always be able to count on enough power to run hospitals and probably also to heat schools electrically. No misunderstanding: I am for solar energy, for windmills, for smart grids, for green hydrogen. But it's not enough. Mills and panels fit very well, but in moderation and in the right mix, with nuclear energy included. You can't stare blind for years at sun and wind, fill the whole country with panels and mills and then find out that you're still not generating enough energy that doesn't emit CO. I hear GroenLinks say here: if I have to choose, rather gas than nuclear, CO rather than CO. That's obvious. I didn't expect it so much, but it's obvious. I think it's going slow. For example, we move from a climate solution to a climate pose, and we remain dependent on the Middle East and Russia for even longer. Anyway, it is what it is. Then we'll try to solve it without them. Because the Netherlands has committed itself to the Paris climate targets and because it is necessary to achieve these climate targets that the Netherlands can rely on clean energy sources, I really want to table the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u297	But you challenged Mr. Klaver. He may respond briefly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u298	If you were to build a nuclear power plant, you'd be at it for over ten years. The costs in England are already up to 20 billion. It's said I'd rather use gas. I'd like to clarify that. For the short term, even if I don't like it, you'll need gas plants for the next ten or fifteen years to make the switch. I'll tell you why that's so important. That power is scalable. It's easier to turn it on and off. We can't do that at a nuclear power plant. You can't do that at a coal power station. That's why gas isn't cool with it, but it's true that it's the only fossil fuel we need in this transition period. For the distant future, after 15 years, we will have to do without gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u299	That's obvious. But I had also asked Mr Klaver where we would then transition to. That was sun, wind and hydrogen. Hydrogen is a beautiful carrier of energy, not a generator. There are scalable new nuclear power plants, but even if you build a non-scalable one, you can use that surplus all the time to fill that beautiful hydrogen with energy. It just doesn't fit without it. Especially if you want to do it in 15 years, it's just not gonna work. Then you won't make it, unless you're going to import it from the French who just ordered six nuclear power stations or from other countries that are willing to deliver it. Mr Klaver rightly says that they have been calling since the 1990s for it to be more sustainable and cleaner. That's what he called out earlier than we were. He's absolutely right about that. It is a pity that then you will not be accompanied by a final plan in which you will show how you can do it, how you are less dependent and how you have enough power in our country without CO. That nuclear power plant won't be here in ten years. That's why I don't want to wait another ten years to get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u300	Mr. Dijkhoff, this is the second term. We've really had hours of debate. It is fine that you enter into the debate with Mr Klaver, I give him the opportunity to respond again, but it is really a second time-limit in which you state your conclusions, in which you put forward motions and try to conclude the debate. Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u301	It is a very relevant debate, because it is about the future of our society, about the economy, about the energy supply. It is not right for Mr Dijkhoff to say that we have never laid down a final plan. Yes, we did. Hydrogen is indeed not a generator of energy, but a storage capacity. It can carry energy. You do need it to save all the energy you generate at peak moments, so you can use it at other times. Our solution is very simple. You're gonna have to build more windmills at sea faster. You paint an image as if we had to cover all meadows in the Netherlands with solar panels, but on all roofs in the Netherlands we can take another big step. With all these steps, and by saving energy, we can get there without having to build a new nuclear power plant in the Netherlands. If you want, I can submit the plan to you again. That's what we said in the 1990s, and that's what we're saying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u302	But not in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u303	With that plan from the nineties, you're gonna need an actualization anyway. You're not gonna be okay with that anyway. For what the current plant in Borssele delivers, you need 16 million solar panels, which you also have to replace after 20 to 25 years. If you're lucky, they might last a little longer. If you're gonna convert it to hydrogen, you're gonna have to generate more energy, because you're gonna have to convert power twice. I agree with everything Mr Klaver says until he says, and that's how you're gonna make it. Then you must save a lot of energy and that is not a nice country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u304	No, Mr. Clover. I thought you were walking back to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u305	I'm turning in 11 of my 12 interruptions. I didn't post it. We've already won that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u306	No. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u307	Mr Dijkhoff spoke just now about filling the land with sun, wind, geothermal energy and other sustainable solutions. I'd like to give him this picture of the university in Wageningen. It contains the use of the Netherlands' space now and in 2050. According to the University of Wageningen, that tiny blue mark that is probably not even visible from your spot is the use of energy generation in 2050 with all the plans we already have and with which we can be 100% self-sufficient. That aside. I have one very specific question for Mr Dijkhoff. His plea that nuclear energy should not be excluded, that it should continue to be investigated and that it should be discussed with market players is, of course, not new. In the Climate Agreement, we have also always had a strong discussion with the members of the Cabinet, with the main question: what is the most cost-effective way to tackle climate change per tonne of CO avoided? My simple question would be: will Mr Dijkhoff always take a critical look at any plans for a nuclear power plant to see whether this is the cheapest way to achieve this per avoided tonne of CO2?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u308	That's combined with security of supply, the guarantee that you always have enough. At sun and wind, we look at what it costs to generate energy. But if you want more sun and wind, so that you can store it in hydrogen, so that you can also use it when it doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, you have to include all kinds of things with which you don't make a penny, such as converting, storing, converting and returning, in those prices. We don't do that now with sun and wind. So I want to look at it, but if you really want to do it by 2050, I'm allowed a premium on always guaranteed power and independence. That's something I'm counting on in terms of cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u309	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u310	Can I conclude, then, that Mr Dijkhoff is saying the following? I just want to achieve that CO-neutral energy generation target by 2050. I think it is important that this can be done in a stable way. If that is possible with formic acid, or with all the other developments of our Dutch TUs, then I agree, but I just don't want to rule out nuclear energy. Should I read Mr Dijkhoff's appeal in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u311	That's gotta be a little bit wider. I don't want to rule it out. I don't see how you're gonna make it now, except with hope for such a breakthrough. I think it should be in now, if you want to deliver on the promise to generate CO-free energy by 2050. However, if there is a development tomorrow, whether that is something I have never heard of, or thorium, or smaller reactors operating in cities, and if that is better, safer and cheaper, then you can take it instead of wind farms or nuclear power stations. Then those ten I asked for yesterday in exchange for supporting that higher ambition, could perhaps become five.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u312	I suggest you proceed with the motions. Mr. Jetten, you also have a few minutes. Proceed with the motions. No, Mr. Jetten, we're not going to have the debate again. It's done. I suggest you proceed with the motions. No, Mr. Jetten, I'm sorry. A point of order may be made. You may make a point of order. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u313	I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. We've agreed on the number of interruptions. Mr Dijkhoff and I have far from used our total number of interruptions. So I think it is a little silly to break down a short debate on the substance in the second term. The only thing I wanted to say to Mr Dijkhoff...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u314	No, Mr. Jetten, I'm sorry. I suggest you proceed with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u315	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for security of supply that sufficient clean and adjustable energy sources are available in the Netherlands in addition to weather-dependent energy sources;]] [[Whereas in our densely populated country nuclear energy uses relatively little space compared to other energy sources;]] [[Whereas, in addition to conventional nuclear power plants, there are also interesting developments in the field of smaller plants and thorium;]] [[whereas nuclear energy is a clean and adjustable energy source, but unlike other clean forms of energy generation, nuclear energy is not financially supported by the Empire and that market players are now reluctant to invest in nuclear power plants in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas there are several possible forms in which public authorities can support investment in nuclear power plants;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct a market consultation under which market participants are prepared to invest in nuclear power plants in the Netherlands, to examine the public support needed for this and to explore the regions in which there is an interest in the construction of a nuclear power plant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Wilders and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u316	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply and I thank all my fellow Members for the debate that has taken place. It was a nice debate! Just like last year, it was fundamental, but I feel that we have taken a step further this year and that goodbye to economics has come a step closer. From left to right we see that the whole idea that everything is about money, that everything is about the growth of the economy and that you need to set up the government as we set up companies, is not working. I really liked the fact that Mr Dijkhoff was talking about a strong government. I would like to join in that, just as I would like to join in his words that a strong government is not necessarily a very large government. It's what that government does. I liked that, but I do think that a strong government should not invest in nuclear energy. I would have liked to have said a little bit more about it, but I shouldn't have. I also find it striking: the VVD has ignored climate change for about 30, 40 years. She hasn't done anything about it all this time, but she suddenly woke up and thought, "And now we have it. Nuclear energy is really the solution to meet all the objectives we have never met in the Netherlands. But nuclear power is actually the only way to get there." Then it is also said that it is adjustable power. A nuclear power plant doesn't turn you on or off for a second. At a coal power station it is exactly the same, because you do not turn it on or off. So it's not adjustable power. There are all kinds of things that are mentioned, including in the motion, about thorium and very small nuclear power stations. thorium has been mentioned for 40 years! I'd love it if it worked. I'm okay with investing in research on that, but you shouldn't think of it as a strategy to get there. That's just out of date. Then there's the investigation that the motion asks for. Today, the Algemeen Dagblad asked all major energy companies operating in the Netherlands: would you like to build a nuclear power station here? And the answer was no. The business case isn't running around and it takes more than ten years for it to happen. Reference was made to Hinkley in the United Kingdom, where costs more than doubled. I believe it has gone from 10 billion to 22 billion. It takes more than ten, maybe 20 years, before it's built. Mr. Dijkhoff, you should have woken up somewhere in the last 30 years. At that time, you should have done something about tackling climate change. You can say "you don't have a plan," but we do have a plan. If you are saying that we cannot raise enough with savings, I say that we can. You can do that with sun and wind, but you have to dare and take very big steps. I find it almost presumptuous to say after so many years that we have woken up and now we have the solution. Nuclear energy, that's not the solution. And also when it comes to windmills, there have been very big problems with recycling, but the latest figures show that we can recycle these things for a long time too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u317	This is entrapment. Mr. Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u318	Well, I didn't mean to, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u319	No, of course not! I was expecting this, and that's why we'll be launching a comprehensively documented piece next week. Then Mr Klaver can take it all up and read in the latest state of affairs in this area. I think it's all fine and I think all these accusations are too late and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, We were always in favour of nuclear energy, but you must have a majority for it. What is also rather annoying is that Mr Klaver always chooses the attack, but on that very ominous phrase "saving a lot of energy" after not showing how you get it done. Energy savings are fun and we should indeed do so, but we still have to import nuclear energy from other countries. At home, they call it "hypocrite" or "easy." Perhaps it is also very clever, but I don't care, because Mr Klaver's mix also contains a lot of CO and, secondly, a lot of nuclear energy. This nuclear energy only comes from somewhere else, because "if it doesn't come from the Netherlands, it doesn't exist."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u320	First of all, I'm not talking about what other countries put in the mix. What I do know is that Sweden, a country where nuclear energy has actually been socially accepted for a long time, is not going to add to it. There's even two of them being shut down. Macron has indicated that there should be fewer power stations. He wants to reduce its share to 50% of the total energy supply. So everywhere in Europe you can see that they want to reduce the share of nuclear energy. You can really blame my party for everything, but not that we have not made plans in recent years that show that we can become climate neutral until 2050 and bring energy supply to 100%. Well, we did show you that. You can really blame me for anything, but not this. Yeah, it's okay, but it's not true!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u321	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u322	Mr. Chairman. I just need to switch from nuclear power to the housing market. I was very pleased with the openings offered there, because I think it is really important that we reduce economics there too and try to stop this market. We do not quite agree on the measure yet, but I am pleased with the commitment that it is possible to look at those rent increases. I actually think we should take it all off, but well, we're gonna talk about that. I am also pleased that we can look at how we can further promote construction and sustainability, and that even further phasing out of the landlord's tax is certainly an option. I also found it very nice to hear the Prime Minister say on his own that 55% are very important in Europe. We are also preparing the adaptation of the Climate Law to this. That's an important signal. It has taken a long time, but I am glad that the Prime Minister is saying the same thing and listening to it so well. And then there's the investment fund. I think that's what we've been talking about. I'm not quite sure we can really agree on that, but I'd like to try. I do not think that a growth fund is a good thing at the present time, but I also saw sufficient points in the Prime Minister's response to see if we can take another step towards making it forward-looking and also giving the climate an important role in it. Those were positive moves that I saw, but unfortunately they were not in all respects. When I look at the BIK, I would really like to say: return on your steps. I see exactly what happened to the dividend tax two years ago. It had to be and it was going to be. Economists said it's not gonna work. The Chamber, or at least the opposition, said "please, don't do it," but the VVD wanted to go through with it. This too will be a fiasco. Don't do it! I would like to invest it in the public sector, but if you think it should go to business, I am willing to look at all kinds of other possibilities how we could invest directly. But there has to be an alternative, because this is not going to work. This is a waste of money. As far as concerns are concerned, I was disappointed that the Prime Minister did not leave any more room. I think I made a really good proposal to see how we can give structural money out of the overall confrontation or not. I believe that the cabinet is right on one point. If we put money into the OVA space now, we have no control over how it is spent, whether it really goes to the bottlenecks that we want. That's why you shouldn't just put it in there, but you should make agreements with employers and employees. I would really like to ask the cabinet to reconsider that. That is why I have four motions on these points. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people cannot pay the rent or find an affordable house;]] [[Considering that the housing crisis is likely to increase further as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[Notes that additional measures are needed to restore the affordability of housing, e.g. legislation for lower, affordable rents, minimum income limit for single-person households and less landlord tax, so that housing corporations can build and make more sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with additional proposals prior to the examination of the Housing section of the budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u323	In cooperation with Coalition-Y, we have made a motion concerning the growth fund. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is committed to achieving the climate goals set out in the Paris Agreement;]] [[Whereas the National Growth Fund should meet the needs of future generations, including tackling climate change;]] [[Considers that future generations united under the heading of the Coalition-Y deserve to be involved in this;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[include internal CO2 pricing in determining the social costs of projects financed by the National Growth Fund;]] [[use a generational test when assessing investment for quantifying the impact on young people and future generations;]] [[to allow a young person as a representative of future generations to take a seat on the assessment committee of the National Growth Fund;]] [[to ensure that the House of Representatives deals with the definition of the final growth fund priorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, following the attempt to abolish the dividend tax and the attempt to reduce the tax on profits for large companies, the cabinet now intends to give EUR 2 billion to businesses for the third year in a row;]] [[whereas it is unclear where this plan comes from and the cabinet has no idea what the effects of this tax rebate are;]] [[considers that this money could be better used for problems in the housing market or salaries in the care sector;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the Chamber, to seek an alternative use of these EUR 2 billion to solve urgent social problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-13]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van Brenn.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u324	And finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the wage adjustment in the WWS budget 2021 has been reduced by EUR 444.5 million and that this reduces the scope for improving wages in care, which with rising pension contributions may even lead to loss of purchasing power for healthcare providers;]] [[Whereas some health care providers make very little money and the pay gap within care is large;]] [[Whereas new collective agreements will be concluded in the care sector in the coming year;]] [[Calls on the Government to conclude a care agreement with trade unions, employers and financers of care in order to improve low wages and reduce the pay gap, and to create additional financial space for this;]] [[calls on the cabinet to inform the Chamber on this matter for the budget handling of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u325	Finally, Mr President. I hope, on this last motion, that there will be movement in the cabinet. I also hope the Cabinet sees what we are trying to do here. It is perhaps a middle ground between what the opposition is asking for now and we want to make the money available to the budget right now and what the cabinet is doing to place it in a committee until the elections. We say: let employers, employees and the cabinet sit together and identify the bottlenecks. And if, as far as I am concerned, they come together, we have to do so for the VWS budget, and together we are responsible for covering the structural costs that this entails. I think we owe this to the care. We can't say we'll wait until the formation. We can do it now. I really want to call on the cabinet to respond positively to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u326	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u327	Mr. Chairman. I think it was two weeks ago that I was caught by the farewell interview with the nestor of the SP group, Ronald van Raak. It referred quite explicitly to his disappointment, not to the content of last year's Political Reviews, but to the reception of them. There were elements in the interview that you see in many farewell politicians that reflect on the sometimes less positive aspects of our profession and the debate here. I hope that if Mr Van Raak has looked at this debate, he has seen a little more that the positive aspects he saw last year have continued in this debate. From the SP that will be the feeling that the farewell to neoliberalism is felt better by more parties. Mr Klaver talks about saying goodbye to economics. Mr Dijkhoff is now talking about 'the strong government'. I'm talking about the cooperative revolution and getting back to society. But I like that even the Prime Minister could be tempted a little bit today to debate vision and that he used the word himself in the housing market: that you have to have a vision so that you can build nicely. So I hope that Mr Van Raak felt the same in this debate today. I would also like to continue the debate with the Prime Minister at a later date on the answer he gave when he finally wanted to look a little ahead. Because his reasoning about functional decentralisation I understand ideologically, but you see that the problems we have created not only because of freaked-out market thinking, but also because of how the government now works. That's why I referred to the movie I, Daniel Blake; I don't know if the prime minister saw him. The government has become part of this problem: it is run too much as a business and treats its citizens as customers. I understand the fear of functional decentralisation on the one hand, but on the other hand sometimes the implementation is so remote that the same control may not be there anymore either. The Prime Minister indicated that he was looking for a middle ground. Let me see that as hopeful and as a hook to give that society more space in relation to the market and therefore also to the government. I'd like to thank the Cabinet for several promises. I'll just walk by and tell them I'm gonna stay on top of it. First of all, this has to do with food banks. It has been said that this is for the SZW budget. I would like to point out that if the answer is going to be no, especially with regard to Europe, I would like to have it a little earlier. This goes in by 2021 and then we can fight a little bit more about it. With regard to Article 68, the Prime Minister referred to the Council of State and, as I have heard, made a movement in this debate in relation to previous discussions on this matter. I hope that will also be clearly stated in the letter we are about to receive. With regard to the discussion about our own medicine supply - Big Pharma, the Prime Minister called it today, there will be a more detailed opinion this autumn, and then there will be a cabinet juice valuation. I expect we'll get it before the election. So I would like a commitment from the Prime Minister. I am going to table two motions and I have also signed a number of them. The first motion concerns the proposal by the provinces for a Regional Economy Recovery Plan in relation to the extra money earmarked in this budget, especially for European co-financing and regional development. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has a major economic impact in all regions and in all businesses;]] [[having noted that the provinces offered a Regional Economy Recovery Plan to the Cabinet and indicated their intention to invest heavily in the recovery of the regional economy;]] [[Considering that the Millions Note also includes additional funding for regional economic development and European co-financing and that these funds can be used par excellence to achieve, together with local authorities, an integrated recovery plan for the regional economy;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the provinces and other stakeholders, such as municipalities, to jointly develop the Regional Economy Recovery Plan and to send its approach to the Chamber for Christmas Streces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u328	Yesterday, in the debate with Mr Segers, I argued in favour of a safety planning agency, also in response to a report by the WRR that was missed earlier in the formation, at least by me. As is often the case, the WRR writes down sensible things and we think as politicians only after a few years: hey, that report wasn't that crazy. The corona crisis has shown how vulnerable we are, how vulnerable our supply of products is when there is a global crisis. I mentioned that 'just in time' should be replaced by 'just in case'. But there are many more threats that I believe we should be better advised by such a planning agency, so that we are prepared for things like we experienced last year with the pandemic of corona. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has revealed vulnerable dependencies of foreign imports of necessary medical devices;]] [[having noted that in 2017 the WRR issued a report on the strategic safety of the Netherlands, and recommended the establishment of a safety planning agency;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate further strategic dependencies on medical facilities, food security, cyber, energy and defence equipment;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the WRR proposal for a Security Planning Office and to send an impact to the Chamber before 1 January;]] [[calls on the Government also to emphasise in this impact a better link between international and national security, including the fight against organised crime and the better anticipation of vulnerable dependency relationships in relation to goods, products and services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u329	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are very concerned about the increasing number of infections. We will have an extensive debate on this at the beginning of next week. But this just doesn't sit well with us, because we also know that almost everything we've discussed here today could end up in the trash if things really go wrong, so if we really lose the grip on the virus again. That's what we're worried about. Nor does it seem that the decisive tests and the decisive source and contact research are getting out of hand. Our concerns are there. We will discuss this at length next week. We also thought it was an interesting debate. I agree with all my colleagues who have said that. I can tell Mr Heerma that my colleague Mr Van Raak has just confirmed that he has indeed felt that we have come a step further in this debate than last year. I feel the same way he does. Last year we already had interesting General Reviews, where we saw indeed the end of neoliberalism in sight. Today, therefore, we heard the words from the Prime Minister: the concern is not a market. He said we're going from "living market" to "people's housing." He was talking about a strong government, about more security in the field of work. Well, those are things we've had in our election program for 25 years, the time we've been in the Chamber. So we're happy about that. The Prime Minister is asking me right now, from field K, if we are going to lift the SP. No, we're not lifting the SP, Mr. Rutte. I can reassure you; don't worry. Because you are making a nice little bridge to the point I wanted to make here: we are not at all reassured that it will automatically be all right. I don't believe in that either. So we are pleased, and we are optimistic and hopeful about the future, but I am also absolutely convinced, Prime Minister, that a major SP will be needed to bring about this change. For example, we have to conclude this debate today, unfortunately, with the observation that rents are going up, but the salaries in the care sector are not. At the same time, the number of millionaires in the Netherlands is still increasing, but so are the number of people at the food bank. We want to tackle this inequality. We want our country to be fairer. I've got three motions going in that direction. The first is about the salaries in health care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that for 2021, the Cabinet only pays a bonus of €500 for healthcare professionals;]] [[Considering that healthcare providers have not yet received the promised 2020 bonus and that it is still unclear which healthcare providers will receive it and when;]] [[Whereas the development of wages in health care will slow down in the coming year, as the room for pay in care is linked to market wages;]] [[noting that this cabinet leaves the appreciation of caregivers to a subsequent cabinet;]] [[considers that caregivers deserve a structural valuation;]] [[Calls on the Government to include a structural valuation in its plans for 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u330	I mentioned the rents. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that already before the corona crisis, 800,000 tenants were left with too little money for living;]] [[noting that in July the largest increase in rents had taken place for six years;]] [[calls on the government to reverse the rent increase and freeze rents for the coming year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u331	And then I have another motion on our so-called care neighbourhoods, and organizing for our elders to grow old in a nice way in their own neighborhood. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, despite a great deal of commitment, there is insufficient availability of nursing homes in the coming years;]] [[noting that the development and construction of small-scale care institutions are difficult to achieve, inter alia because of the sometimes commercial rather than social land prices that municipalities demand;]] [[believes that older people should be given more choice as to where they want to spend their last years of life, at home or in a small-scale residential care institution;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with municipalities, housing corporations and healthcare providers, to develop concrete proposals by region to accelerate the construction of small-scale housing facilities, such as Zorgbuurthuizen and Knarrenhoffen, and to address the problem of excessive land prices,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u332	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to come back to the point that the Prime Minister took with him at the very end of his reply, namely the Tax Office and the parents who were victims of the supplementing affair. The Prime Minister gave an honest but very painful answer, and it is unacceptable to us. He said it's just not gonna work out for these people in the next year. We can't be at peace with that. I would therefore like to make the following appeal in my second term to the Cabinet and, in particular, to the Prime Minister. Do something! Think about what it must be like for these parents to have the prospect of a sintering classroom and a Christmas where they can do nothing again for their children and where they have more concerns about paying the bills instead of looking forward to a few nice days and doing something for the family. Give these people an advance. I'm just yelling. But do something for those people. Show them we're not gonna let them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u333	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u334	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for replying and thank you to the Prime Minister for the commitment that in the near future, together with the European Commission and Angela Merkel, who is now chairing the Union on behalf of Germany, he will make a personal commitment to finally adopt the European migration policy that we have been waiting for for so many years. Then we can better protect the European external borders and welcome asylum seekers in a humane and fair manner and distribute them across the different European Member States. I hope it will be a successful effort, but I urge him once again: should countries such as Hungary and Poland continue to stand in the way of this European migration policy, consider simply adopting it with the majority of Member States. Mr. Chairman. We have come to the conclusion of a special edition of the General Political Reviews, not only because this debate was subtitled live by gesture interpreters for the first time, for which thanks to the President. It is good that it has succeeded so quickly, so soon after the treatment of that important law to finally recognise sign language. It was mainly a special edition because of the empty seats in box-K and because the coronavirus still has control over our society. We are concerned about the signals we have received in the last few days and also in the last few hours. We are concerned about whether we can prevent the Netherlands from entering a second corona wave over the next few weeks and we are also suffering the economic damage. These are unprecedented times because of the corona virus. This also calls for unprecedented measures. The cabinet has already shown in recent months to take everything out of the box to make our society run, to preserve jobs and, at the same time, to combat the corona virus as effectively as possible. Despite the occasional criticism of this Corona approach, it is also to be congratulated that the cabinet has put so much effort into doing so in recent months and has actually thrown all the existing frameworks overboard. But that doesn't mean we have to stare blind on the here and now. We must also learn from the past six months and use moving insights to get stronger and better out of this crisis. "Better out of the crisis" doesn't mean looking back at what it was like. It also means continuing to look beyond the crisis to the future, as the King said in his throne speech. As far as D66 is concerned, this future is a resilient, healthy and green society where there is no place for discrimination in the labour market, in which zoonoses are not given the opportunity to become a pandemic, in which companies and the government work together to achieve ambitious climate objectives and in which everyone is free and given the chance to get the most out of their lives. Mr. Chairman. My own input yesterday was mainly about cooperation. During these two days of debate, I saw the same thing. I have seen attempts from the coalition and opposition parties to cooperate and perhaps further improve the cabinet's plans on a number of points. I liked that. Over the next few weeks, we will continue to talk about the third aid package and about the Housing budget. These are two important issues where we want to see how we can help as many people as possible from work to work and how we can make access to a home even easier for start-ups and middle-income people. I also saw it in the interruption debates with GroenLinks on the 'green growth fund'. That is what I call it, because the contradiction between green and growth is not necessary. It is precisely with this growth fund, with 20 billion, that we can drive a huge investment in the Netherlands and thus also bring closer to achieving our climate objectives. Mr. Chairman. My group is pleased that 50PLUS is also building a new supplement system, or actually replacing the supplement system with a much fairer system in which people no longer get stuck in bureaucracy and get angry letters from the government, but feel helped with support in the back. And, perhaps yesterday, a very special coalition was created between D66 and the SGP: two groups who have advocated a new form of the scholarship, focusing on students whose parents earn their morale twice and who are now falling between ship and ship everywhere. We're gonna be happy to see if we can get this new scholarship together in the next few months. Mr. Chairman. Ultimately, it is about increasing equality of opportunity, because this equality of opportunity has only been reduced over the last ten years. I would like to table one motion today, which is specifically aimed at a group that is hit very hard in such an economic crisis and only sees these opportunities dry up. These are people who have to do with poverty and debt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are strict conditions for access to the Debt Remodelling Act of natural persons, and that this scheme may last for three years, in which people have to live on a very low amount and creditors do not know whether they can expect any further payment on their claim;]] [[whereas the debtor, the creditor and the company benefit from resolving the debt problem as quickly as possible;]] [[Considering that for years there has been a decline in the flow of natural persons to the Debt Remodelling Act, which sometimes means that people with problematic debts are spending unnecessarily long time in this area and that more people are expected to be in debt due to the outbreak of the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to simplify access to the Debt Remodeling Act and to explore how the duration can be limited to, for example, one and a half years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Azarkan and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u335	Yes, that's the case. Certainly, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I always find it difficult to call all kinds of laws and so on in motions, but in fact it means that people in debt get faster access to debt relief and that the route takes less time, so that they get air and perspective faster again. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The only way to get out of this crisis is always to keep an eye open and dare to learn from things that have gone wrong, in the past but also in the present, in tackling the crisis. The only way we're gonna get out of this is if we work together. In this respect, this DPE has given me the hope so shortly before the elections that we will be able to form this cooperation in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u336	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u337	Mr. Chairman. The strange thing about this debate is, of course, that if we do not succeed in stopping that second wave, many parts of the debate afterwards will turn out to be really nonsense: the whole content of the briefcase, all the plans, the discussions for a few million here or there. But more importantly, thousands of lives and hundreds of thousands of jobs depend on whether we can stop that virus now. Honestly, in that respect, I sometimes felt like I was watching a debate on the Titanic. All kinds of things that seem very important under normal circumstances, are not in the same way as what we have seen happening in the outside world in those two days. The test policy has proved to be the Achilles heel of this cabinet's corona policy. And that needs to get under control very quickly. The Prime Minister did not want to mention a date, but we see that credibility is being undermined by the fact that communication is always different from reality. We see that the cabinet has undermined its own authority; I am concerned about a Grapperhaus effect on people who do not comply with the rules. We see that the government's authority is affected by such a frontal collision with André Rouvoet of the GGD's today. We can't fight a crisis like this. For the record, I urge everyone to stick to the rules, even if they are not funny and you disagree. We all have an interest in that. But that does not affect the responsibility and the expensive duty of this cabinet and this Prime Minister to do this better. That has nothing to do with politics. That has to do with how we all stand together over the next few weeks, months and years. Mr. Chairman. The tendency to review yourself in second term, I find uncomfortable. After all, we are not here for the cosiness, but we are here on behalf of the electorate. We'll represent him. We're all trying to do that in a more honest way. It is therefore a good thing that there is a collision, that there are different visions, different ideas about society. I stand for a different vision on behalf of the Labour Party than this cabinet. But I think a vote is thrown away if you don't make your own proposals and if you can't work together. We live in a country where we always have to. I also believe that that voice has been thrown away if you just want to work together and not fight. 'Cause then nothing changes. So the art is here to find each other on the social change you're aiming for. If you then consider this time, it must be about work, about protecting people in their security of existence. 'Cause he's at stake. It's already at stake for a lot of people and it's still at stake. That is why I call for people not to be left to the lonely journey along the benefit agencies, but to do everything in their power to keep them working. I realize that we might be threatening to ask for the impossible. But I think we should do that, for the sake of those people. That is why, with my colleagues Jesse Klaver and Lilian Marijnissen, yes, you do not have to believe in left-wing cooperation to think that there is something there. Mr. Chairman. But let us not forget that we still have a great deal to do in that regard. In the coming period, very difficult choices are coming towards us. But having said all that, I am optimistic about whatever can be done. I can tell that there is a willingness on the part of the parties to look at the government in a different way and the role we play with each other here. If that changes, in words and in deeds in the long term, then we can do a lot. Then we can achieve a great deal for the next generation, which was rightly very much about, and then we can do a great deal for the quality of life and the security of life of the people in the country. I think that's our assignment. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that no one should stand in the street without a perspective;]] [[whereas tens of thousands of Dutch people are in danger of losing their jobs;]] [[noting that a job guarantee can ensure that people with income retention can work towards a new job;]] [[noting that employers are responsible for this, together with employees and supported by government and social partners;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward within one week with proposals for a work guarantee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that people without partners also deserve an affordable home;]] [[noting that the Cabinet intends to reduce the maximum income limit for single persons in order to qualify for a social housing allowance;]] [[Whereas many private tenants have lost more than half of their income to housing costs;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from lowering the maximum income limit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-22]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u338	Mr. Chairman. We are conducting this debate in freedom, democracy and the rule of law. On that point, I was grateful to the Prime Minister for the totally unconditional defence of the rule of law. I think that's necessary, and I think that's important. And I would like to join with you wholeheartedly. For those differences that exist in our view of society, which clash in a Chamber, and which result in democratic decision-making. And that makes me proud to stand here as a member of the parliament. This means that I respect the opinion of others and that I will therefore fight for the mission of the Labour Party and the security of existence for every human being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u339	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u340	Mr. Chairman. It is now three years since we completed a coalition agreement with the title Trust in the future. It was a proposal by Mr Buma at the time to give that title to the coalition agreement. We wrote something down in a context of, with a suggestion of makeability, as if we all knew exactly what would come and as if we could steer ourselves exactly in a certain direction into the future. We had never heard of corona, we had no idea that huge packages of support would be needed and that a government would have to step forward that would have to go deep into the pouch to give everyone some certainty at this time. But what I find special in this year is that when we were at the bottom of the crisis and the corona crisis was so caught up, the confidence in the government, the confidence in politics, was very high. This had everything to do with a sense of solidarity in society, in which people looked at each other and cared for each other. It brought out the best in us. I believe that confidence in politics and in the cabinet has already fallen to something normal, but it is still higher than a year ago. That has everything to do with cooperation. It has everything to do with people who are willing to take care of each other and to see each other. They're willing to make bridges, reach out to each other. I know firsthand that if you work politically and are in a coalition, it's not always easy. That's not always easy when you have four very different parties. But as far as I'm concerned, it's always worth it, because you're doing it for your country, because you're doing it for your neighbor. And that gives me confidence. I agree with Mr Asscher that you should not review yourself extensively and that you should not look down from a high seat and then tell us what the debate has been like, but if I look back at this debate, it is very interesting to see how there is a change in thinking, how it is sometimes quite ideologically, how we think very fundamentally about the role of the government, the role of society, the role of the market. And then you see a shift from market thinking, individualism, to a caring government and taking care of each other. And then we see huge challenges in terms of the labour market, housing, the tax system, but also in terms of the protection of the vulnerable. I am thinking, for example, of the commitment to those in debt, the support for those on lower incomes. But also further away. I agree with Mr Jetten's plea for a European migration policy. We can think differently about Europe. But if we see that on the edge of our continent people are in a very precarious situation, in need, and we do not really know what we are doing right and how we can operate well, then we need to move together in a European context. Then we have to find a solution to that. So that's also my warm encouragement to the cabinet. Madam President. Yesterday I said: this is the last budget of this cabinet, but then I heard from box K: well, we don't know yet. You could indeed do a little more than seven months about a cabinet formation, so we could see each other again next year in this composition. In any case, it is the last budget in the missionary status of this cabinet. From my position and from my perspective, I would like to thank you for your cooperation. That was wider than just the coalition and I look forward to further cooperation. This debate showed how, and we will continue to do so. If we work together in this way, including in society, and look at each other, then I still have faith in the future. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of people with problematic debts is increasing steadily;]] [[Whereas buying off debts by means of a restructuring loan is an effective way of bringing peace and understanding and ensuring a clean slate;]] [[Whereas a guarantee fund ensures that a rehabilitation loan becomes more attractive and accessible and that thousands of people can be relieved of their problematic debts;]] [[Calls on the Government to establish a guarantee fund guaranteeing rehabilitation loans and exploring with interested parties how and under what conditions this guarantee fund can be widely accessible, not only for people from the municipal debt relief but also for young people and for people outside the municipal debt relief;]] [[invites the government to involve the relevant parties from the field, including SchuldHelpMaatje, the NVVK and SchuldenLabNL,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Asscher, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Azarkan and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u341	I have a second motion on Northern Netherlands and on the debt of honour we have with regard to Groningen and the change we make in the energy transition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a country, we have a responsibility to restore the effects of gas extraction and to offer a new perspective to the gas extraction area;]] [[Considering that the damage in the gas extraction area is not only material but also damage to human beings;]] [[Whereas the Agnes Mulder/Dik-Faber motion (35377, No. (11) invites the Government to draw up a joint JTF plan with Northern Netherlands and other regions;]] [[Whereas the coalition agreement has agreed that Groningen will become a frontrunner and knowledge centre in the energy transition and thus gain new prospects and employment;]] [[Calls on the Government to come forward with a single perspective plan for Northern Netherlands which includes concrete measures to make Groningen a frontrunner in the transition to renewable energy and to use for this plan a substantial part of the resources available from the European Just Transition Fund, while seeking synergies with other available funds available to Northern Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government also to identify, in consultation with the region, ways in which people can be offered a mental perspective, for example by further strengthening social and mental support in the earthquake area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u342	And then my final motion, on the importance of isolation and an isolation program. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas insulation is a no-regret measure in the energy transition, which is also good for the comfort of homes, a lower energy bill and good for the environment;]] [[noting that the existing schemes, such as the SEEH scheme, impose unnecessarily high requirements (number of isolation measures, their size, their insulation value) and are therefore not accessible to the willing citizen;]] [[Whereas the authorities should avoid unnecessary barriers to isolation as far as possible and make it easier for as many people as possible to participate;]] [[calls on the Government to design a national isolation programme, which is accessible to the public at a very low level, with a pro-active and care-free approach, first and foremost to seek room for this within the existing arrangements, and to inform the Court of Justice of this in the BZK budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u343	It's not in the mood yet, but I have good hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u344	Mr Segers, thank you. Mr Klaver has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u345	I just said it was a brilliant motion. I have a point of order because we have talked about information before, but I just saw online that from midnight there would be cafes closing. I understand very well that the cabinet should simply rule, but I would appreciate it if the cabinet could start in second term with a brief statement on what's going on around corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u346	All right, you've made your point. Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u347	Thank you, Mr President. We live in a tilt time, and that's not because of corona. The tilting is in the fact that with our consumer society, not only the Netherlands, but also other rich Western countries, we have a much greater impact on natural resources than the earth can deliver every year. In any case, that is an unsustainable situation. We've wasted many precious years. Now you see the transition is in progress. Of course, that requires something from our leaders. It was a very nice debate about this new role of the government, but we cannot afford to philosophize about it for another four years. Frankly, the Animal Party doesn't exactly share the analysis either. Of course it's about whether it's a strong government or a withdrawn government. But what's under there is that we're being led and run by Cabinets who just didn't dare to choose things they did promise. Public health is important, but if you ask around, it turns out that the interests of Coca-Cola, McDonald's and Albert Heijn are decisive. We are being warned, and it is not at all fun for people themselves to struggle with obesity, lung problems and all the other problems that the cabinet has held deaf and blind for and still holds out, in the midst of the corona crisis. Then you're not believable with your words that we need to protect public health. It is wonderful that the King has recognised the climate crisis on behalf of the government, but a CO levy of €0 is of course not an act to add to the word. However, having climate plans and making climate policy, but spending more money on subsidies for the fossil industry, you just don't dare to choose those public interests. That is independent of the question of how to organise the government. Really, I'm in favour of that: a ministry of housing has to come back. All very sensible, but of course that does not work if it continues as Mr Dijkhoff so openly acknowledges in the first term: when it comes to it, we simply opt for our own short-term economic interests. That reflex... that's what you need to get out of it. We have to do everything we can to prevent the second wave of the corona crisis, but we live in the middle of the sixth wave of extinction, the first one caused by humans. We cannot afford to wait for another cabinet: the time is now! A major role in this is played by livestock farming. That is also the most important reflex that the cabinet really needs to get away from. The Dutch intensive livestock farming and agriculture have perhaps once been a good idea. After the Second World War, the production of a lot of food had to be ensured. But now the costs are so much higher than the benefits, even for the farmers themselves. No climate target has been achieved. No natural purpose has been achieved. Animal welfare is affected. We have drought problems. People's health is at stake. The livestock sector is not a food producer, it is a waste of food. Are there any winners with all these problems? Have farmers benefited from this system? No. Over the last twenty years, the number of animals in the Dutch livestock sector has remained the same and the number of farmers has been halved. Why is that? The Netherlands is a small and densely populated country. Our land is expensive and, fortunately, we have reasonable social agreements about what we pay people when they have to do work. So labor is expensive here, too. The Netherlands is not making it on the world market. Farmers can't compete there. The patchwork proposed by the government after government has led to farmers having to invest a little on the fringes. An air washer, a low-emission stable. Then the Rabobank said: it's wonderful that you get a subsidy.It always had a subsidy on it, but of course you had to do it yourself, but you have to take more animals, because otherwise it doesn't pay off. Farmers have therefore been chased into this system and it is now really up to the cabinet, to the Minister of Agriculture, to free them from it. As the pigeon said, which ended up in the pastie from the net: not every change is an improvement. The Minister's recognition in her circular agricultural vision that Dutch agriculture takes a bigger hold on the earth than is justified is beautiful, but not if you then make a policy in which there is some voluntary buy-out, which is quite inefficient, when you see how that scheme has been rigged up, and for another part of again a lot of new subsidies in the same system that I have just described. That's throwing away taxpayers' money. This means that you are forcing farmers even further into that scale increase and that you are letting future generations take the fall for buying out those farmers again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u348	Mrs. Ouwehand, I see you have motions. I don't want you to get in trouble like you did last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u349	I have two motions and a few more minutes. Thanks for the warning. Mr. Chairman. I believe that this is now a real obligation for farmers, but also for future generations. We should not wait for another cabinet and now make that decision. We're gonna get them out of that system. There are plans for that and we can solve so many problems at once. Choosing dare, that's what it's all about. Then we'll look further into the precise role of the government. I have tabled my first motion, which makes this problem clear. If you don't choose, all you really have to do is losers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a large shortage of affordable housing in the Netherlands;]] [[having noted that more than half of the Dutch land is used for agriculture, a large proportion of which is used for animal feed;]] [[whereas the Dutch livestock sector is not only the main cause of the nitrogen crisis, but also a huge claim on land suitable for housing;]] [[Whereas a study shows that a reduction in the number of animals of more than 70% will lead to the release of 10% of agricultural land, allowing nature to recover and land to be made available for housing;]] [[calls on the Government to end the housing crisis by enabling this development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u350	Mr. Chairman. Then I look very clearly at the rest of the cabinet when it comes to the question of the Dutch income model and the economic growth that is always there. I asked before, and then there was no answer. That's also significant, but people at home really want to know. I'm just gonna ask the question again. When will it be enough? When are we gonna have enough stuff? This summer in the very most recent week we have ever experienced, even the KNMI has been shocked, an ice rink opened in Haarlem. Ice skating in the summer. Seriously. Can't we just agree that we don't have to? Mr Dijkhoff thinks he needs so much energy that we are not going to get there with solar panels, windmills and hydrogen. Maybe we can use a little less energy. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the King's observation that we are not going to make cuts. I just need to find the motion I had before. We're not gonna cut back, but we're gonna cut back on the poorest people in the world. That is embarrassing, because it is exactly 50 years since we agreed with each other that we would spend 0.7% of our gross national income to help the poorest people in the world. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the King in the Throne speech said that the Netherlands continues to support the most vulnerable regions in the world, which have been severely hit by corona and the government chooses not to cut back in these uncertain times but to invest;]] [[noting that the development budget remains at 0.55%;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is heading towards a historically low percentage of the ODA budget in 2024;]] [[noting that it is the wish of the majority of the House of Representatives to pursue an ODA budget of 0.7%;]] [[calls on the government to make an investment plan this year to achieve a structural ODA budget of 0.7% of GNI in the coming cabinet period and to use these resources for the most vulnerable people in this global corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u352	Mr Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u353	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the rulers for their reply. I would also like to thank the people at home for the patience to follow these long reviews. You are always surprised that so many people react and that they continue to follow the debate, while it takes a lot of time. Sometimes the effect of your contribution is surprising. I did not think that my contribution would give an immediate boost to the Dutch economy. I have seen today that the icebird is temporarily sold out in metal. Mr President, I would now like to confine myself to a number of motions. I actually had three motions, but in view of Mr Jetten's contribution, I quickly scrubbed a fourth motion. He hasn't been able to say yes yet, but he probably will. I shall begin with a motion on financial soundness. That is a point I made yesterday and also in interruption. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to the Millions Note 2021, government debt as a percentage of GDP, the debt ratio, rises to 65.3% in 2025, and that this ratio may increase much further in a second corona wave;]] [[Whereas the Council of State stresses the importance of sustainable public finances and a controlled development of the level of debt;]] [[calls on the government to present a perspective paper within three months, providing a perspective on the long-term reduction of the debt ratio to a maximum of 60% of GDP, based on scenarios of the corona crisis, poor policy and nominal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u354	The second motion concerns the issue of the Netherlands in the world, as the Prime Minister called it. It is a request to promote the meeting of the Association Council. There are, of course, a lot of current developments; the peace agreements that Israel has concluded with the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, and the consequences that that has had. Others also play a role in refraining from annexation on the West Bank. Those are all kinds of developments that make the momentum to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that recent peace agreements were concluded between Israel and the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, respectively, despite differences of understanding on the Middle East Peace Process;]] [[noting that the Association Agreement between Israel and the European Union has not been modernised for years and that the Association Council has not been meeting at ministerial level for years;]] [[Whereas peace and association agreements can contribute to a welcome standardisation of relations between Israel and other countries;]] [[calls on the Government to make concrete proposals within the Foreign Affairs Council to restart formal discussions within the Association Council for the modernisation of the EU-Israel Association Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u355	My third motion concerns the over-representation in the crime of people with a non-Western migration background. In the past, we had a targeted policy, which was widely supported in this Chamber. That stopped in later years. We were only discussing this in the debate with the Minister of Justice and Security, which the Prime Minister also mentioned. The Minister then said: if that were another wish, it should also lead to a ruling in the Chamber. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that crime rates still show a worrying over-representation of people with a non-Western migration background;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and investigate this problem and to develop a targeted approach to reduce crime in these groups as well as in its entirety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u356	Then I come to my last motion, which I didn't think I'd file. However, when Mr Jetten mentioned an unexpected click between D66 and the SGP on the issue of the loan system, I thought you should forge the iron when it is hot. There were a few other speakers. I have been able to write down the next motion, but I have not had enough time to update Mr Jetten or to discuss it with him. However, we have just seen that this can also be done on the stand of the sitting. So if Mr Jetten listens carefully, it can be arranged in this way. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students from middle-income families have no or limited entitlement to an additional grant by the introduction of the loan system and are dependent on a loan;]] [[Whereas this has put considerable pressure on middle incomes in particular and has increased pressure on students;]] [[having noted that by reducing the reduction rate of the supplementary grant, more students will be entitled to an additional grant;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the phasing-out rate of the supplementary grant so that middle-income students are also entitled to an additional grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u357	Let me look at Mr Jetten to see if this was about what he also formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u358	You are ready to add Mr Jetten's name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u359	Yeah, I've got the pen in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u360	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Staaij on the speed with which he is able to make a motion, but I would not like to sign it now. In my view, we should, above all, see if we can perhaps move together in the education budget. Last year, in the General Political Reviews, it became clear that there is no political basis for the current social loan system. After that, it has been quiet for a very long time, and now the SGP and D66 are the first parties with concrete new plans, but they are both parties to sound public finances. So there's got to be cover too. I would therefore particularly like to invite Mr Van der Staaij to work with us in the coming months on this very sensible plan for students from middle-income families.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u361	I have a second page with me about the cover, but then it might get a little too handsome. You should also sometimes just respect that for certain parties the pace of change is just too fast...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u362	And that's why we're keeping her until the Education budget. I trust it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u363	Before he's filed, he's been arrested again!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u364	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u365	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Prime Minister for replying. It was my first General Political Reviews. I was honored to be able to debate with colleagues and the Prime Minister, especially as a child of Moroccan parents. But modest as I am, I also found it rather uncomfortable that my Moroccan origins were somewhat dominant in this debate. It wouldn't have been necessary for me. So if we can agree that next time we can just go a little bit more to the problems of the Netherlands, then... Geert? I see that he's nodding. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the most important conclusion after two days of General Political Reviews is that we can think of and propose anything, but that corona makes everything uncertain. It's like politics is trying, but it's got corona. That makes these General Political Reviews very relative. Despite all the differences of opinion and all the criticism of the corona policy, I therefore wish the Cabinet much wisdom in this time of crisis. It will be a bumpy ride and there are still many obstacles to be overcome. Mr. Chairman. It was also two days General Political Reviews in which we have experienced a low point in history, because after the Moroccan Dutch and after the Muslims, the rule of law is now also the enemy of Wilders. Wilders shit our country by calling it "corrupt." He has undermined the people who work for the public cause, the police and the judges. And it's not just someone who does that, that's what the leader of the biggest opposition party, a man with a million and a half voters. Mr President, in all honesty, I shudder at the thought that this man would be in charge. For many people, the rule of law is sacred. For people with a migration background, the rule of law and our Constitution are their last hold, the last thing that protects them from discrimination. And DENK will never allow Wilders to take that away. We do not choose the dictatorship of the PVV, but a society in which everyone can fall back on that Constitution. Hence, Chairman, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that the Netherlands is not a corrupt country;]] [[expresses her confidence in the Dutch rule of law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u366	Mr. Chairman. I have three more motions to counter the negative effects of the corona crisis: a motion on placements and two motions on increased discrimination. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the corona crisis there has been a shortage of traineeships, in particular for MBOs;]] [[believes that it is undesirable for students to lag behind their own faults due to the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the government to create more internships within the government in order to overcome the shortage of placements due to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u367	This motion was co-signed by Mr Jetten. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het kan staande de vergadering, als je een aantrekkelijk voorstel hebt, meneer Van der Staaij.]] Your proposal was good, but my proposal is just a little better. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CPB finds that the crisis strengthens the effects of discrimination on the labour market, because there is a burden in, first out;]] [[Considering that this impact is strongest for groups with a non-Western migration background, and in particular African or Arab origin;]] [[calls on the Government to work to ensure that the support measures contribute concretely to reducing the impact of the corona crisis on groups with a non-Western migration background,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u368	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CPB notes that due to the corona crisis there is a potential for increased discrimination and exclusion;]] [[calls on the Government to step up awareness-raising, reporting and information campaigns in the context of anti-discrimination during the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u369	It's all I need to thank you for presiding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u370	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u371	Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We've hit a nerve. There have been a lot of reactions from people who recognized themselves. I've seen the Prime Minister's courteous face. I got that for free, but something tells me that if I want to turn that into a sounding currency for the elderly and pensioners, I will have to wait for it. Or for anyone, because in that respect we have all seen his economical face. Unfortunately, we've known that face for a long time. But the wallet doesn't lie. People will certainly notice that next year. Twelve years without the indexation of pensions, of which ten years under the leadership of Prime Minister Rutte. That will continue to stick to him, just like the fact that the tax burden after ten years of VVD is on balance higher than when he started. And the waiting lists, we've been talking about it for social housing exploded in that same period. That too is an open wound that still calls for better policy. Unfortunately, we are not all going to manage that anymore today, but I have looked the Prime Minister deeply into his eyes. This Prime Minister is not a rude bastard. Nor will he ever say, or think, that older people shouldn't be around anymore. But how his cabinet expresses that feeling is a completely different story. There should be a strong 50PLUS. As far as we are concerned, for example, instead of D66. Because then we could have pushed this Prime Minister in the right direction. But next year there will be new opportunities. Who knows what beautiful March will bring us. Mr. Chairman. I have a few motions and I have a pencil with me in case anyone wants to sign with it. No problem at all. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court and the Council of State have strongly criticised democratic control of the planned growth fund;]] [[Whereas a large growth fund to strengthen earning capacity is first and foremost a political issue which should involve the electorate;]] [[calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps in the establishment and use of the Growth Fund, other than the reservation of funds, so as to put it first in party programmes, elections and cabinet formation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many elderly people are concerned about what code black means;]] [[Whereas the consideration of doctors in the context of intensive care should be discussed with the elderly;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss with the elderly organisations appropriate information, so that ignorance with code black causes less unnecessary unrest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis offers an excellent opportunity to bring together the interests of the elderly and young people in the labour market;]] [[points out that young people can have a great deal of interest in (temporary or non-temporary) forms of early retirement for older people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-37]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-38]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u372	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to come back to one email I received today from a 55-year-old flex worker. He indicated that he had a very good job and that he went out on a reorganisation. Every year he has to wait and see if his income is still there. He says, "I look forward to December with fear and trembling, for then my contract will come to an end. I'm in a sector where things are just not going well at all." That's not the only one. That's a lot of people. In this respect, I hope that the call that we have made, and which has also been made from NCO-NCW, to make sure that people who are still at work are really accompanied, so that they do not get into that benefit phase at all, will be pushed through. Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, the Prime Minister will speak with the elderly at the Catshuis on 22 September at the request of 50PLUS. I wish him a fruitful and educational conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u373	Thank you. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u374	Famous is the statue of the Roman soldier seen in Pompeii: flooded by the volcano, but never departed from his place, because no one told him to do so. The loyalty of that Roman! The loyalty to his world, to his role in that world, to his civilization, in the midst of an abundance that overwhelmed him. That's how I felt these days. As the volcano overwhelms the city, as the Trojans open the walls, while the ship is deeply hit by an ice shot, amidships, Forum for Democracy stands to defend a civilization that most of you have completely forgotten. There is a debate here, there is a paradigm here, in a context that is completely alien to what has been our identity for 1,000 years, has been our civilisation, what it was about in Europe: protecting our identity, our borders, our people. Let me give you an example. It was about the growth fund and, in fact, from left to right, all established parties see the point. So they have all become in principle in favour of state capitalism. Just in fact that's socialism. The State will then spend taxpayers' money and actually co-opt companies. Secondly, the cartel thinking. Because, of course, they are friends of the established parties who are allowed to distribute that fund, people like Jeroen Dijsselbloem and other people who have been a bit so cooperative for quite a while. And companies that claim this are, of course, becoming more and more implicit or direct under the influence, the sphere of influence, of the State. And thirdly, that was something that stood out today, the green thinking that turns out to be implicit in this growth fund. The whole idea of a growth fund was first of all: we are going to make a profit. But no, it does not appear to be allowed to compete with the basic principles which the Dutch State is already pursuing. And hey, that is of course also the Climate Law and so implicitly the 20 billion and later perhaps 100 billion are also meant to bring green thinking further. Another example of something that has been going on over the past few days has been about thinking about migration. That has penetrated so deeply into the minds of all the people here that they all simply accept that we are no longer a people at all, that we are just all migrants, migrants everywhere. There's a Marrakesh II pact coming up, became known. Through the EU, so there you see all that supranational, that transnational. The Christian Union also endorses this, together with Rob Jetten. They'll find each other. We need a European migration policy. So you see it here across the board. VVD and CDA propose such a green state capitalist, i.e. socialist, plan. So a socialist green plan. Christian Union, D66 and other parties endorse a European Migration Pact. In fact, it is almost impossible to discuss this with each other anymore. The worlds are so different. The perception is so far apart. Your entire starting point, from left to VVD and CDA, all those parties, is post-national. You no longer think about the Netherlands, about the Dutch people, about the Netherlands with borders, with a history. There's been a ptolemy revolution. No longer is the center of the Netherlands and the rest of the world surrounds it. No, the Netherlands revolves around another center. That's what happened in your heads, and that's a faith. That's a belief I'm fighting. And I don't really care whether we win this fight or not. I mean, it matters to me: I hope we win him. But I stand here and the fact is that I stand here and speak these words and witness a civilization that is 1,000 years old and is being squandered by all of you, from left to right, the whole cartel. SP, VVD, you can switch list pickers in a minute. You can rule with each other in no time. GroenLinks, the CDA. In general, it doesn't matter anymore. It's one idea. There's been a revolution. I don't know exactly when, but it's so obvious that there's a goodbye here. I am convinced that the vast majority of the population does not want this. The vast majority of the population in our old countries does not want this. And I'm really curious about what's going to happen for the next six months, but it might just happen, and that's not the first time in history you'll be amazed when you walk across the Place de la Bastille, which suddenly happened there. For remember what Louis XIV wrote in his diary on July 14, 1789: no peculiarities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u375	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u376	Mr. Chairman. Last year I submitted a motion to the General Political Reviews for an online tool to make the state budget clear and accessible to everyone. That motion was adopted unanimously, i.e. Chamberwide. And the result? I looked, but I couldn't find it. Hence my question: what is the situation? And I would like to say that we have reservations about the 20 billion Wopke-Wiebes waste fund. Party-of-the-Arbeideconomous Bas Jacobs speaks of an ugly stain, and former CPB director Coen Teulings is very critical. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the economic crisis caused by the corona pandemic is mainly caused by demand shortfall;]] [[Whereas more money in the consumer's wallet is the fastest and most effective way to recover demand;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the billions involved in the proposed National Growth Fund could not be used better....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the calculation rate for pension funds used in the Netherlands is significantly lower than in most other Western countries;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out a comparatively independent international study of the level of interest rates and to report on the causes and sustainability of the very low Dutch interest rate before the end of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-40]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u377	Finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the total cost of public administration in the State budget in 2021 amounts to EUR 83.6 billion, more than 10% of gross domestic product;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness of public policies in many areas could be improved;]] [[Whereas transparency and fairness in public action are essential;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward a concrete plan for a more effective, fairer and efficient government and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u378	Finally, Madam President, I would just like to say that I am very pleased that, during the debates of the last two days, the word 'future' was almost the most widely heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u379	Thank you. I've heard another word, but I'm not gonna say that. Yes, you know, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u380	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, many thanks for the Prime Minister's reply. Stand on it: almost seven and a half hours of debate on the sharpest of cuts. That's top-notch sports. But it was also a strange debate, on the day that we set a new, sad record in the Netherlands with the highest number of corona infections in one day, and with a GGD that can no longer handle testing. The privacy sensitive information of people who have been tested, such as addresses, phone numbers and medical data, can apparently be seen by far too many strange eyes. And increasingly louder sounds the ongoing emergency clock of the care workers, but it can apparently be filtered away by some into a background noise to ignore. In this last point, as far as I am concerned, the whole debate actually comes together. Those care workers aren't ready for a second corona wave yet. But they are increasingly "ready with care" because they are still waiting for the promised €1,000 health bonus and because a structurally better appreciation of care is passed on to the next cabinet. The latter proved to be the case again today in the interrupting debate with the Prime Minister. The care heroes are done worrying, with all the consequences of that. I'm not even going to sketch the doom scenario, because everyone can think for themselves what it'll be like if there are no more caretakers to take care of our loved ones on the eve of a new corona wave. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitment that the Netherlands does not participate in the national self-interest that dominates the world at the moment and that compassion and concern for the most vulnerable do not stop at national borders, especially in a pandemic like this and in the fair distribution of vaccines. Thank you for that. It's our moral duty. Mr. Chairman. I have not received an answer to my question as to how it is possible that all those reports from all those renowned research institutes that have been commissioned by our ministries and our own security services since 2014 and in which they were unanimous in the message "prepare for a pandemic with disruptive consequences for all facets that keep society running and the country viable" have been ignored. What have we learned from that? Why were they only received symbolically? I therefore ask the question again from my first term: who are we standing here for, who are we doing this for? The Netherlands says: you are here for us. I will put forward proposals in the various budget debates which I hope will do justice to. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u381	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u382	Mr. Chairman. I'm not a corona denier, on the contrary. COVID-19 is a virus that killed 6,200 people in our country, and that's terrible. But what I have great difficulty with is that the statistics and the scientists' statements show that the PCR test is not suitable to demonstrate a corona contamination. We plunge the Netherlands socially, culturally and economically into the abyss on the basis of positive PCR tests and not on the basis of infections. I sincerely hope that our Prime Minister will keep his promise and have a statistician look at the figures again. I hope to get a letter on that, too. Once again, robbing the Dutch of their freedom and destroying the economy on the basis of this PCR-gate is, as far as I am concerned, a mistake. Let us realise that if, for example, the event industry is turned upside down, it will never come back. Then it's over. If 1,000 carnival families go bankrupt, then the carnival is forever away from the Netherlands. And again, ten additional people on the ic is not statistically significant. Let us not forget that many more people die from other diseases, which are now being suppressed by corona. Every day 128 people die of cancer and 103 people die of cardiovascular disease. These people also deserve our concern and these numbers are statistically relevant, because statistically corona is over. Mr. Chairman. When I asked engineer Wiebes a few questions, he went pontifically to point to his head to indicate that I would be crazy. I think it is unworthy of a minister and an engineer, and it is a bit degraded, as far as I am concerned, the debate we have had, especially because engineer Wiebes is responsible for a lot of things that are technically poorly substantiated. Think of burning biomass, shutting down state-of-the-art coal plants, facilitating solar fields and accelerating natural gas removal from the Netherlands. The answer to my question about biomass was that biomass is very sustainable when trees grow as fast as you can cut them down. Especially funny if it wasn't so sad. Mark asked me, "Does it knock?', But Eric didn't pay attention and played on his phone. No, engineer Wiebes, it's up to you, noblesse obligige. The nineteenth-century German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer already said: all truth goes through three stages: first she is ridiculed, then there is violent resistance, and third she is accepted as self-evident. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is unclear how accurate the PCR test is;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct independent investigations into the reliability of the PCR test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the entertainment and events sector in the Netherlands has no perspective whatsoever due to the corona measures;]] [[calls on the government to identify how other European countries deal with these branches and to examine whether it is possible to synchronise the Dutch rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it has now been found that solar fields do not produce a significant amount of energy;]] [[calls on the government to ban solar fields immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-43]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u383	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u384	Mr. Chairman. Two topical issues came in during the debate around corona. The first one was the message from the GD. Since I have not had a chance to understand myself with Hugo de Jonge or to dive deeper into it, I would indeed like to take up the suggestion that this should be included in the progress letter which will be sent to the Chamber tomorrow anyway. The same goes for the messages tonight. It is not true that something is going to happen tonight or tomorrow, but there are reports about the talks with security regions. All decisions have yet to be taken. Your Chamber is asking me to respond to those messages, but I am not going to, because we are in the final stage of those conversations. Things are starting to leak, but there is still a decision to be taken in the Council of Ministers. This needs to be further considered and discussed internally. In addition, regional and local colleagues should be able to do their job. In other words, there will be more at the press conference tomorrow. And then immediately after the letter to the Chamber. Then there is Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question about concrete preparations for future pandemics. Here too, the Chamber has, of course, recently received the "lessons learned" letter on the current crisis. Those lessons are of course also relevant to future pandemics. In addition, several pathways have been launched that can also serve as input for future crises due to infectious diseases. I refer to the reconstruction research into the approach to the corona crisis initiated by the Security Research Council, the OVV. The national crisis plan for infectious diseases is also intended to be adapted as a result of the corona crisis. The actualization was planned for this year, but has been postponed due to the corona crisis. There are also regional pandemic plans. They are kept up-to-date as a result of the corona crisis. Mr Krol asked about making the rich budget transparent by means of an interactive tool. On the site the rich budget is made clear with an interactive tool. The technical briefing on 23 September will explain it to the Chamber. Then I'll get to the motions, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. I should like to advise Mr Wilders on five points, with reference to the debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 6 of the PVV, 50PLUS and Krol. The motion in part No. 7 doesn't ask for a ruling from me, so I don't give advice on that. I believe that this is a motion addressed to the Chamber itself. The motion in part No. 8 is about closing the borders for immigrants from Islamic countries. With reference to the debate, I would like to discourage it. Also the motion in part No. 9, on the massive increase in healthcare salaries in all sectors, I would advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 10 does not ask for a ruling from the cabinet, but is a ruling from the Chamber, so I do not give advice on that. The motion in part No. 11 asks for a market consultation on nuclear energy. Judge Room, as far as we're concerned. Then I come to the motion on part No. 12 on supplementary measures for residence. That's a motion from Klaver, Asscher and Marijnissen. I'd like to say a few things about it. The motion deals, among other things, with legislation for lower affordable rents. I would like to stress once again that I think that this has also emerged in the debate that there is a wide-ranging desire here in the Chamber to see if there is still room for further reduction of the rent increase in the current difficult economic conditions. I recognize the wish expressed earlier, also announced in Mr Asscher's group's initiative law, to take an additional step here. There's room for the cabinet. The Minister of the Interior will involve this further in the examination of the bill. We are looking for a balance. Affordability for tenants is of great importance. At the same time, the landlord should be allowed to continue to perform that task. Then the motion goes to the income limit for single-person households, to at least maintain them. I would like to say a few words about this. The cabinet has previously proposed to adjust the SGEI income limit in order to improve affordability and availability for families. Single people have more spending space for living, but the corona crisis also brings uncertainty in terms of health and work. The cabinet does not want to further increase the uncertainty in the area of living. That is why we are open to looking at the income limit for single people. In doing so, the cabinet keeps an eye on the chances of success. A third element is the landlord levy. That is what we discussed in the debate. I must point out once again that we are open to looking at this, but there is also a problem of coverage that has not been solved. So these budgetary effects need to be dealt with in greater detail. I saw in the media a bit the image "that landlord tax is now gone." Well, no. It is still there, but we are going to look seriously with each other to see if that can be resolved in the budget. If that works, then we can lower her, or even more, whatever one wants, but then the money must be there. I would like to emphasise that, because the media created a bit of a picture that it would have already happened. With that interpretation, which I shall then give to it from the government's side, I give the motion in part No. 12 Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 13 is about the National Growth Fund, a younger member of the committee, CO et cetera. On this point, the cabinet has a positive basic attitude. We simply do not want to set up a committee on the basis of shared interests, but we want to see the good reasons for involving young people in the fund. We therefore see good points of departure to follow up on this, but we do want consultation with the committee first. There is also a need for technical work to be done. I would therefore ask the proposers, Mr Klaver and Mr Segers, to hold the motion and give the cabinet time to look into this matter. Then we'll get back to that as soon as possible. The request is therefore for the motion in part No. Thirteen to be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u385	I hear the Prime Minister very well. I think the cabinet wants to take a very serious look at that and talk about it, so I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u386	At the request of Mr Klaver, I propose his motion (35570, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u387	Thank you very much. Then I come to the motion on part No. 14 on an alternative use of the 2 billion for the BIK. I would advise against this motion, referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 15 is about a care agreement with trade unions. I spoke about this in detail in the debate. I think we should start by looking at how things are going with the SER reconnaissance. The bonus must be paid. We have the 130 million structuralally, also to further promote people's enjoyment of work. It is also important, of course, to have the wage space already available. Given those complex issues, we advise against the motion in part No. 15. The motion in part No. 16 invites the government, in consultation with the provinces and other stakeholders, such as municipalities, to jointly develop the Regional Economy Recovery Plan and to send its approach to the Chamber for Christmas Streces. This motion will be given Chamber as far as we are concerned. Then motion to part No. 17. As far as we're concerned, that judgment gets Chamber. I do refer to my first-term words. We are looking at how such a planning agency can be of added value and how it can be organised. That's what we do at the midterm review of the National Security Strategy. And then we'll discuss it with the Chamber. In short, we will do so before January. That brings us halfway; no more: then I'll meet Mr Heerma a long way on his half of the game. The motion in part No. 18 I would like to advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 19 I would also like to advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 20 by Marijnissen and Heerma is about the construction of small-scale living facilities. This in itself fits well with the task force's mission of Living and Care, namely to ensure that municipalities and healthcare providers and corporations come up with concrete plans. Of course, that is not something the government itself is doing, but we can get rid of this. The motion specifically calls for the problem of excessive land prices to be dealt with. Although the Empire is not the principal of the Task Force, I can imagine that this will be added to the assignment. With that interpretation, I will leave this motion to piece number one. 20, please, to the judgment of the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 21, from Jetten, Segers and a lot of others. Even with an estimate of the chances that this motion could make it, I do not think there is any point in going off like a watering machine. So judge Room. But also on the content, I think there is a lot of good to say for that motion. So also heartfelt judgment Chamber. On the motion in part No. 22 by Mr Asscher, I would like to say the following. We talked about a job guarantee. Unemployment is about to rise, so it is not possible to give real guarantees here. There's gonna be people going backwards in income. I very much agree with the intention behind this motion, which was also to be heard in Mr Asscher's words. We are still consulting with social partners. We take these points into account. We'll be here next week for the debate with a letter. Against that background, the motion is given in part No. 22 as far as our judgment room is concerned. The motion in part No. 23 of course has a link to the motion in part No. 12 by Klaver and the other two in the left-wing collaboration. The motion in part No. 12 I gave Judgment Chamber. This motion calls for additional proposals to be made prior to the examination of the Housing section of the budget. This motion really goes a step further. I would now like to ask the authors of this motion whether they, also because of my reaction to the motion for a resolution on part No. 12, be prepared to hold this motion. I ask that because we first have that motion in part no. 12 have to work out. So my proposal is to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u388	It's homely what this means. You are actually proposing that the Minister for Housing should come and talk about this, because this should be part of the search for support for the housing budget. Isn't that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u389	In any case, it is coming to support budgets. But she does without those motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u390	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u391	At the request of Mr Asscher, I propose his motion (35570, No. 23). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u392	Thank you. Then the motion to part No. 24. That's also a motion that I don't think is gonna make it. But still, judge Room. And heartfelt content, too. On the motion in part No. 25 I would like to ask the petitioners Segers and Heerma the following. I said in my first term that the Just Transition Fund has not yet been completed. This is very important for the overall resources. There is, of course, another discussion as to whether other structural funds should be transferred to that fund. That is why the budget is not yet known and this is expected to be clarified in the coming weeks. Then it is one of the structural funds, and that is why it is neat that we should discuss it in full with the administrators of all the regions how the various European funds are distributed. This will be the subject of a new administrative consultation as soon as there is more clarity about the legal frameworks of the Funds. We expect clarification on this at the end of November. By the way, for social and emotional support there is money. By EZK, VWS and the Groningen National Programme, funds of EUR 5.4 million have already been made available to the municipalities in the earthquake area for the mental perspective that the motion refers to. It's running. Given that constellation, I would ask the proposers to hold the motion until we have the fund worked out in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u393	There is a commitment in the debate. With that direction has been given and we specifically look at the North Netherlands and Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u394	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u395	I assume it will come back to the EZK budget, so until then, let's hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u396	At the request of Mr Segers, I propose his motion (35570, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u397	Thank you. Then motion to part No. Mr Segers and Mr Klaver on the national isolation programme. I'd like to say a few things about that. The motion calls for an isolation programme based on the reallocation of existing resources. That's also important, otherwise there's no cover. It is indeed good for the energy bill and the environment. There are also funds in the budgets of BZK and EZK to promote this, but they are not unlimited. Therefore, requirements are also imposed on the subsidy, such as a minimum insulation value and size. That also ensures that people take appropriate measures. If you call for a programme to be developed that is easily accessible and to find space in existing resources, that is of course possible. That also requires political agreement on exactly how to do that. With this long interpretation, I give the motion judgment Chamber, but it really requires an impact which also has to be weighed up politically in its details. But I'm giving her this explanatory judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 27 with a reference to the debate, we talked about it: dissuade. The motion in part No. 28: That's really up to a next cabinet. This cabinet has given a cabinet response to the AIV opinion in order to give substance to this issue in the coming years. So therefore the motion in part No. 28: Dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 29 of the SGP on the perspective paper on reducing debt quotas to a maximum of 60%. I'd like to say a few things about that. I share Mr van der Staaij's view that sound public finances are also important in the future and now for dealing with a possible future crisis. The study group on the Budget is also doing the necessary work on this subject and is also working on it by means of a substantive opinion. The cabinet also asks them, it is also separate from us. The cabinet can, however, set out the development of debt in the coming years and how it should proceed. With that context, the motion in part No. 29 as far as we are concerned in her advice to your Chamber: Judgement Chamber. At the motion in part No. 30 from Van der Staaij I would like to ask the following. This calls for a very precise analysis of what is going on in his sensitivities. We have a very good relationship with Israel, but also a very good relationship with the Palestinians. We both, with the PLO, uh, sorry, with the Palestinian Authority. What am I saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u398	We're one of the few people in the world who work well with both of them. I would very much like to have the opportunity to check the motion for a resolution on all the sensitivities, and I therefore ask Van der Staaij to uphold this motion. It really requires a precise weighting. So on the motion in part no. 30 my request to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u399	Next motion, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u400	In the event of motion in part No. 31 I would like to ask the same question, because that point may be raised with the VAO which may take place next week. That also gives us the opportunity to point it out from all sides. For the motions in part No. 30 and 31 is my request to Van der Staaij to hold them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u401	And the motion in part No. 32, by Mr Van der Staaij, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u402	I thought he was apprehended by Van der Staaij himself. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u403	Oh, yeah, that's right. Right after the filing. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u404	If the Prime Minister were to be allowed to choose one that was actually detained and not put to the vote, it would be the motion in part No. 30 or those in part No. 31?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u405	Then I would like to refer to the motion in part No. 30 say, "Please keep it on." On the motion in part No. 31, I'd say, dissuade. That's my advice. On the motion in part No. 30, I'd say, hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u406	It's complicated. On the motion in part No. 31, in fact, we have already had a debate. The Minister indicated that he had no objection in his own right, but that a ruling by the Chamber was useful. I'll leave the motion to part no. 31 then just put it to the vote. That seems to me to be a very clear point. And if the Minister asks for the motion in part No. 30, can we expect a letter about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u407	Yeah, there's gonna be a letter. Absolutely. I would like to look at it from all sides and perhaps also contact Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u408	Can we then immediately indicate what this trajectory is going to look like? In fact, the Prime Minister indicated this afternoon that this is what the Netherlands wants, but that other countries are obstructing. What would be possible in an international context?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u409	Yes, that can be done quickly, I think, but I find it difficult to stick to it for exactly a few weeks, because that really requires a very precise weighting and I also think contact with the author. I hope that within a few weeks we will be a long way with the motion in part No. 30. I think so, but I haven't had enough contact with the State Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u410	What are you doing with the motion, Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u411	If the co-sponsors agree, I shall hold the motion until the Foreign Affairs budget is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u412	At the request of Mr Van der Staaij, I propose his motion (35570, No. 30). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u413	That's very much appreciated. That budget is not right away either, so we still have some room for manoeuvre. The motion in part No. 31 will then be dissuaded as a judgment of the cabinet. The Azarkan motion in part No. 33 doesn't ask for anything from the cabinet. He's asking for a ruling from the Chamber, so I don't have to say anything about that. On the motion in part No. I would ask you to keep it to the Home Affairs budget. I read the motion as a clear commitment. The government is already committed to this and understands the urgency associated with corona. At the same time, we want to map precisely the consequences for the entire government. Therefore, the request to hold to the budget of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u414	I'd like to do that, but it's not just an effort obligation. It also says: more than now. So that's at least one, but rather something more. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u415	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (35570, No. 34). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u416	Thank you. The motion in part No. 35 I must advise against. Support measures are also aimed at vulnerable young people. In that sense, we agree on the spirit. However, it is not possible to focus them specifically on groups with a non-Western background, because that will create a huge problem in the implementation. They aim to preserve jobs and the labour market. We are sure that some groups are extra vulnerable. That's what we're paying attention to. But it is impossible to do that in the support package, which is very generic in its implementation. I say dissuade. That is purely because of the question of implementation. I would like to ask for the motion in part No. 36 to hold, for this is uncovered. That's one, but that's not the worst part. I think that we should take a very close look at it in the context of the wider activities. Koolmees and I, together with a number of other colleagues, have a meeting at the Catshuis on 28 September. Please hold the motion until the BZK budget, but at least until after 28 September. That is my question to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u417	I'll hold the motion until after September 28th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u418	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (35570, No. 36). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u419	Thank you. On the motion in part No. 37 I must say that the Court's budget law is indeed respected, because it approves the amount that may be allocated annually to projects. In addition, Parliament will have to re-authorise an incidental supplementary budget as soon as the proposed allocation of funds is waived. At the same time, it has also been chosen to place the fund at some distance from politics. We discussed this in the debate. The committee checks, while politics at system level organises the affairs. That means I'm going to have the motion in part no. 37 must be dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 38 by Mrs Van Brenk: talking to elderly organisations about the meaning of code black. The government, and in particular the Minister for Medical Care and Sport, is prepared to engage in that discussion, especially because it can help to remove unrest. This also fits in with the discussion that we had here today. The question then is whether an information campaign is obvious here. We'll have to see about that later, I think. This was discussed with Minister Van Rijn in the spring. He also had talks with older people's organisations on this important issue. Having said that, with the context I have given, we say about the motion in part No. 38: Judgement Room. The motion in part No. 39 doesn't ask for anything from me, I think. So I'm not judging. That is not a motion on which we have to give an opinion. The motion in part No. 40, using the growth fund to reduce burdens, I advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 41 deals with calculation rates and international surveys and so on. In the debate, of course, we spoke in general terms about the solidarity of the system. For that reason, I would like the motion in part No. 41 dissuade. The motion in part No. 42 is really too common to come up with a plan and I therefore advise against it. The motion in part No. 43 I would advise against referring to the debate. The motion in part No. 44 is about an international survey of events and so on. We do not see any added value in that. The motion in part No. Forty-four, I'm guessing. Also the motion in part No. 45, ban the solar fields: dissuade. Mr. Chairman. Then, if you will allow me, I have something to say at one point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u420	For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask a question about the motion on item No. 35.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u421	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u422	This motion does not so much require specific policies for this group. This motion says that studies have shown that these groups are not sufficiently achieved by the generic schemes. I'm asking you not to let that happen because of the corona crisis. Let us be vigilant about this and ensure that we keep an eye on it, because it is already difficult. Let us ensure that the money reaches the groups for which it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u423	These men have spent most of their time performing. Is it possible, then, that we could hold the motion until next Thursday, when the support packages are being dealt with? That's a suggestion from Koolmees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u424	I saw Mr Koolmees nodding that he understood her. You understand her, too, but he's a little better. I'll hold her for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u425	The motion in part No. Thirty-five is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u426	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (35570, No. 35). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u427	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u428	I see Mrs. Ouwehand. It's not an invitation. You might just stand there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u429	I didn't get an answer to my question. I understand that, but the people at home asked the same question the last time: what did the cabinet say; what did the Prime Minister say? The question is, when is it enough? When are we gonna have enough stuff? When did we use enough energy? I call skating in the summer. I imagine it's a difficult question. It's also late, five to ten. But can the Prime Minister promise that he'll think about it, that the next time we talk about it, he'll have an answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u430	I can only speak for myself. I'm an atypical VVD guy because I don't like stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u431	I appreciate that. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u432	I know. We agree. I'm glad that at least I have the financial resources to feed myself, to have a roof over my head, to change clothes and, when I come across a beautiful book, to buy it. Furthermore, I have no great material desires. There's nothing I don't own that I'd want to own. But every man must determine that for himself. That is, of course, how we all stand in life, I think. Then it is only important that you do it at micro level in a way that does minimal damage to your environment, because perhaps I should note that here too, liberalism lives on the basis of the belief that freedom goes hand in hand with responsibility. The same applies to the other political movements, but certainly to my political movement. Here and there it has been suggested that liberalism is only about freedom, but it is freedom bound by responsibility, with a great awareness of the environment and the absolute conviction that man is willing to care about his environment, that people do so, and that this leads to an inspiring connection in society. People are there for each other. At macro level, it is necessary for a society to have growth. Without growth, it is not possible to carry out the wishes that exist. That is what we want in terms of new jobs, people entering the labour market, to be able to see the latest technological developments, and also, for example, to see increasingly healthy and cleaner food supplies, the economy and the greening of our energy production. All this requires growth. That is why I had the discussion on the growth fund with Mr Klaver. You need growth to green up. It looked like the hole almost closed there. Now it's to see if we can shut it down completely. So this is the type of response I would like to give to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u433	I would like to remind the Prime Minister that political choice is in scarcity. Not only are financial resources scarce, but our energy is also scarce. You may want to skate in the summer, but then there must be a lot of windmills and biomass plants. They also have disadvantages. So let us agree that we will return to this discussion and that the Prime Minister will formulate an answer from his own point of view, which I share: political choice is in scarcity. We're gonna have to find those answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u434	I always have the vision of Klaver and Duisenberg who have designed the social loan system under Duisenberg's terrace heating. Anyway, I'm definitely gonna think about it. I just couldn't help myself. I'm sorry. Finally, Mr President. In his term, Mr Van der Staaij took us in a special way through patriotic history, with the icebird at Willem van Oranje, on the Square. That is a beautiful image, which is not noticed by everyone, but also affects the approach of the coronavirus. I was inspired by it, because this Father of the Fatherland taught us more. To him the statement is attributed that one does not have to hope to do anything, nor to succeed in persevering. These words, of this great man, our founder, the Father of the Fatherland, the man who freed us from Spain, have an actual meaning. Incomplete knowledge does not relieve the cabinet of its responsibility to act. That is the case now and that is the case in the near future, because unfortunately we still do not know everything about the virus and its consequences. Tough choices will also have to be made in the next phase, perhaps even tomorrow. The policy and financial contours of these choices are laid down in the Millions Note. We have talked about this these days. In my opinion, everyone has said to a greater or lesser extent that more than in previous years, we will have to continue to talk about this; with the Chamber, with society and with social partners. Those will not always be easy conversations. Security can change again. I found it wonderful that many of the General Political Reviews have used it to put a point on the horizon, towards the next five to ten years. I have also tried to be inspired by this. At the same time, I am also hopeful, because I have seen in the past period that we in this country have a great deal of resilience if we put our shoulder to it together. We will also need this resilience in the near future. I am also pleased that the beginning of this conversation, even in the exceptional circumstances of this sober Princess Day and General Political Reviews, has taken place in this atmosphere, in this constructive atmosphere. I hope we can hold that together for the next few weeks and months. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u435	Thank you. To Mr Van der Staaij I would like to say that the icebird has been given a nice place in the chamber of the messengers, for which they are all very grateful. We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u436	We're going to vote later, but I understand there's a need for a ten-minute suspension or 15 minutes. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u437	I'll take stock of the wishes. I hear 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-17-tweedekamer-5.u438	Then I'll suspend the meeting for 20 minutes. That's how it happened at our house; supposedly choosing, but eventually my mother decided. Thank you.
