ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	I now give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, who will answer a few questions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to answer a few questions. First of all, thank you for letting me be in your midst. It is a first for me here in your committee; thank you for that. I think it is good to mention the reason for this, because that is indeed the fact that the zoonoses structure has now entered into force. That has everything to do with the fact that in a number of cases it has been made plausible that there has been a contamination of mink on humans. This covered not only animal health, but also public health. That does indeed mean that the decision-making structure will change from that moment on. A number of questions related to this have been asked, among others by Mrs Ploumen, but also by others. I think it's good to start with that. Yes, that zoonoses structure has indeed been established. This does not mean that the Minister of Health will take over the LNV portfolio from that moment on. That's not what can happen. That is what is sometimes desired, but that is not what we can provide for. Unfortunately, I had other things to do. I know that the word 'perseverance power' is in the motion, but I explained when discussing the motion that 'perseverance power' is simply not the most appropriate term under state law. The Prime Minister has no perseverance over fellow ministers. Because that's not how it works. It is a matter of collective decision-making in the Council of Ministers. But there's something else going on here. Here the importance of public health prevails, and that is why the instruments of the Minister for Health prevail here too. But the Minister of Health cannot always do with his own instruments what is needed at a company. That's exactly what's going on here. What you want here is clear. There is no VWS legislation that deals with expulsion as one of the possible measures you could take. This has been made possible within LNV regulations and legislation. From the point of view of public health, since that interest has to prevail, the choice has been made for disposal. Why? Because it has been substantiated that it is plausible that there has been a mink-human contamination. The OMT was then asked: is there a risk to public health? And yes, that risk is indeed at issue. Then it is important to establish: how? Then how is that risk involved? Then why is that suddenly a risk to public health? The mere fact that there has been a contagion of mink on man is not necessarily an immediate risk to public health. I think I need to explain this as well, also on the basis of the OMT opinion. The driver of this pandemic is a human-human contamination. Why did it start in Wuhan and is it spread all over the world in no time? This is caused by human-human contamination, not by animal-animal contamination or animal-human contamination, but by human-human contamination. This has also been the most important form of infection in the Netherlands. You will undoubtedly take a look at the trial version of the coronadashboard; I hope so a little bit. There are also a number of indicators. One of the calculated indicators there is the number of infectious persons at any time. The number of infectious persons at the moment is calculated by the RIVM and estimated at 1,700 so much. That is, of course, a lot less than it was. It must have been a lot more in the period just after the winter sports holiday in Brabant, but now it's about 1,700 people. The chances of you encountering one of those 1,700 people are many times greater than you suddenly encounter a mink when you shop and are infected by those mink because they sneez directly in your face. That chance is not very great for now. But what's going on on these companies? That's where the contamination source remains. In the first companies we saw through serological research that the majority of the mink have been infected. You could say it's probably gonna go out on those companies. Because the mothers have just received youngsters and the maternal protection was present at the beginning but eventually naturally disappears, the infection can happen again. In this way it can remain on the company. Actually, there's a long-term source of contamination on that company. Although human infections are falling, the risk of reintroducing the virus is of course always present. Re-introduction can therefore take place from a holding where the contamination remains present. That contamination can continue to contaminate anyone. At the moment, this risk is not so great, because we have imposed a ban on visitors and put in place hygiene measures. Personal protective equipment is also used in companies that are infected. At the moment, therefore, that risk is not so great, but if you do not remove the infected farms that risk would indeed be there again. That's the I.D. for clearing infected farms. Public health is at the heart of this. We use the instruments of the Minister of LNV, but this has been decided from the perspective of public health. Similarly, the interrelationship in the zoonoses structure is similar. I think that is an important point, which was also raised in Mr Schouten's first term. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Futselaar's question as to why there has been a delay in clearing up. I think that was also a question from Mr De Groot. This has to do with the fact that the risk to public health has been eliminated. That risk to public health must, of course, be substantiated before you can dispose of it. That's this element. I have a number of other questions that concern mink and culling, but perhaps we should take this point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	Yes, but I have a list: Mr. De Groot, Mrs. Ouwehand, Mrs. Ploumen and then it's your turn. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	The question has just been addressed by the Minister of LNV, and the Minister of VWS is now answering it. The point is, of course, the following. The Minister of VWS also points out that this is a zoonoses, with which you have a legal basis to clear. We didn't have a law that says you have to meet those and those criteria when an infectious disease breaks out, and then the government can say that you can't hug your own mother anymore. On the basis of a general basis in the Public Health Act and the Safety Regions Act, it has been decided to intervene. My question is why the cabinet does not choose to limit the risk of mink farming from that point of view. Now it has indeed been decided to kill animals on infected farms. The breeding of these animals, in the light of the warning that they can form a reservoir, is also a preventive measure. It must be taken by the Cabinet on these grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	What matters is that measures under the WPG, the Public Health Act, still maintain the principle of proportionality. At the end of January, Mr Bruins decided that COVID-19 would become an A disease. From that moment on, the possibility has also been created that the presidents of the security regions may be given an instruction from the Minister of Health to do or not do things. The measures taken in the past period have all been taken on the basis of the Public Health Act. The president of the security region has always been appointed. It has led to the adoption of a regulation. At first, that was a model regulation. It will then apply everywhere, with a number of changes. On the basis of that Regulation, the measures entered into force. That is the least far-reaching legislative option in this situation. The VWS Minister continues to impose a measure on the President of a security region through a designation. Is everything justified, or does it no longer need to be justified from the point of view of public health? Of course I do. Any measure which is subsequently maintained on the basis of the emergency regulation can be submitted separately to the court. That has also happened a number of times. Then a judge will still assess whether there is proportionality here. Imagine that it was not said by the OMT that there was indeed a risk to public health here and that you would then have taken a decision to clear it up by an appointment from the Minister to the President of the Security Region. That would, of course, be absolutely open to appeal. We do live in the rule of law, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	There is indeed already a legal framework for clearing up. Corona has been added to minks as animal disease. That gives you a land to clear on the basis of that law. But my point is that there were also all kinds of measures for which there was no specific basis, except that general ground. The VWS Minister must simply ensure that an infectious disease is effectively combated and he must also take preventive action. That's what I'm looking for. I understand that the Minister says it must be proportional, but let's not forget that the ban on hugging your own mother when you weren't sick was also quite a thing in terms of proportionality. If you see that we have taken these measures, then you cannot exclude the mink breeders, if there is also the danger of that reservoir. In addition, when we are talking about proportionality, all animals are killed if there is another infection. The cabinet itself says that that is very intense. This must therefore be taken into account in proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	Sure. These are very legitimate legal questions. I understand them very well. Especially when you make that comparison, you can of course say: in one it was also about a very strong restriction of people's freedoms. That's true. But even then, there is always proportionality. In the case of nursing homes, it has not been submitted to a judge in my knowledge. The risk to public health of contamination in a nursing home is, of course, many times greater than the risk to the health of an infected mink. So I would dare to see a difference between that, although you might be able to make this type of comparison difficult. Every time it comes to this, the cabinet has also wanted to do its job in the past few months, which measure is proportionate and appropriate. In the beginning, those were very coarse measures, because you actually knew very little about that virus. The VVD has just pointed it out as well. In the beginning, they were therefore gross measures. We are now constantly trying to scale down that grossness and actually scale down the measures taken to the level you know you still have a number of measures to take. In this whole discussion about this law, which we are going to discuss in detail, it is about the legal form that fits in with the next stage. In the case of measures to last longer, you no longer operate from the emergency point of view of the WPG, but opt for a long-term legal basis or a longer legal basis. You choose a baser to base those measures. Every time you look at proportionality. You're gonna have to make that weighting over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	I would like to continue with this proportionality, because I think the Minister is right to bomb it into the core concept as a basis for action. This proportionality is, of course, partly linked, as the Minister says, to the fact that we know little about this virus. This also makes it more difficult to adjust proportionality precisely at the right time. I think there is broad understanding for that too. But precisely because there is so little known about the virus and precisely because there is so little known about how animal-to-animal contamination, animal-to-human contamination and human-to-animal contamination are involved, I would imagine that at this stage too, given the advice of the OMT-Z, it is proportionate to say: I, as Minister of the United States of America, give an indication to the safety regions, indicating that in the context of public health the mink companies can no longer survive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	So that would mean something for healthy companies. I have just explained the risk to public health. The risk is not so much that there may be a mink-human contamination, because the risk of being infected by human-human contamination is still many times greater. The risk to public health is that, where you take all kinds of measures to reduce human-human contamination, there is still a chance that, due to the long-term presence of the infection site, the virus will be re-introducing people. How's that going? There's a ban on visitors right now, so it's really not going to be that easy by visiting. There are all kinds of hygiene measures, so hygiene measures are not easy enough for this mink-human contamination to take place. But it could potentially happen, at a time when personal protection is not properly handled, and so on. This could happen potentially, even after a few months. Because of this risk to public health, which is, of course, a small risk to public health, it is indeed legitimate to dispose of infected holdings. But what you're actually saying is: wouldn't you be for a generic slaughter, or for a generic "no more filling the barn," based on the public health argument, so no longer through the LNV legislation, but on the basis of the WPG? I can't imagine that such a measure would hold up in court. From a public health point of view, there is no reason to clean up healthy farms. Cleaning up healthy businesses is very difficult from the point of view of public health to support and maintain. Mink farms can pose a risk to public health where they are contaminated. That is also why the clearance decision was taken on infected holdings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	Thank you to the Minister, because I think it would be good to state precisely why a land would be relevant or not. Finally, I would like to tell the Minister something. We have seen an increase in the number of infected farms in recent days. There's the risk of reservoir formation, that's what I call it within companies. But we are also seeing an increase in the number of infected farms, and in theory this will lead to a scenario in which we will have more and more infected farms in the coming months, which will be eliminated. But then the risks of animal-to-human contamination, longer than you might find acceptable, remain. And is it not wise in that light, in the light of the rapid increase in contamination in farms, to carry out a disposal operation on the basis of a clue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr Schouten and I have just taken a number of measures, which will allow you to identify precisely this type of contamination. So let me first mention the starting point: you can only do this when there is a real risk to public health. There is such a risk in contaminated farms. So infected farms are being cleared. Then you have to want to know: which companies are infected? That is where the serological investigation applies; that is a wide-ranging investigation, which is imposed on companies. There is, of course, the obligation to notify; that is where the sending in of dead animals is concerned. For example, through an earlywarning system, we try to know exactly where the infection is. And once it's in place, clearance is in order. In the meantime, there is a ban on transport and all kinds of hygiene measures are being taken to prevent contamination from one holding to another. So I think there's some extraordinary surgery going on here. And as soon as there is an I.D. for clearance, because of the danger to public health, we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	The approach in this debate on minks is in the context of the whole corona crisis. The Prime Minister said that with 50% of the knowledge 100% of the decisions are taken. In fact, this debate is about the exceptional position of mink farming in this area. Because what's the approach here? The approach is actually that the government is waiting for 100% of the knowledge to be collected. That's when we're gonna get involved. The question is: why, as a precaution, was not intervened at the first time the mink owners were infected, especially when it turned out that it was also transferable to humans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	That question just arrived. It's done. From the first time there was contamination, those measures have been taken which are also appropriate. Since 19 May, the zoonoses structure has entered into force and that was also the time when it was made possible to detect a mink-to-human contamination. At that time, that zoonoses structure entered into force, with on 28 May the ban on transport, the hygiene protocol, the ban on visitors to the barn and the obligation for mink farmers to ensure that other animals cannot leave the farm. Then there was a clearance when there was clarity about the danger to public health. So my thesis is, just at all these moments, surgery was made as a precaution, at all these moments. However, clearance is quite a rigorous decision. It's pretty easy now. In any case, there is a lot of support, as I see it, for disposing of sick businesses. I remember debates, which I was not sitting here, but which I did see, where the threshold of elimination was considered in a very different way. I also think you should look at it that way: from the entrepreneur himself, who has built his company for years. A clearance decision is an extremely far-reaching decision. You'd have to have an ID for that. This legitimacy is provided from the point of view of public health. It is a small but present risk to public health. That's when you can get rid of infected farms. Preventive removal of other companies means.... if you do not know this yet..... that you have gone through or tried out all the other measures that are more proportionate. You must have taken an approach in that. This is what we did when the danger to public health was not clearly established. When it was decided, the infected holdings were cleared.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	At the end of May, when the zoonotic structure was established, it was clear that contamination of mink on humans was possible. At that time, there has been no clearance. There were two weeks left in between. This is the basis of my statement that you waited until you had 100% of the knowledge. This is not easy to explain to a restaurant owner or to other affected people, because there has been an extraordinary response as a precautionary measure. I would like to thank the Minister for his explanation, but I insist that mink farming has received a different treatment here than the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	Yeah, that's right, because you don't clean up in the rest of society. You can clean up a mink farm. This is quite a rigorous decision that you need to back up properly. It is not the case that no measures have been taken. Measures have been taken: mandatory screening, early warning, transport ban, hygiene protocol, ban on visitors and the obligation for mink farmers to ensure that other animals do not leave the holding. Many measures have been taken. When the danger to public health was demonstrated, the decision was taken to remove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	And now the other question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	Indeed, not all companies can be compared. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll proceed with the preliminary ruling. Is it acceptable to the public health that the provisional provision has delayed disposal? This is a question from Mrs Lodders. I think it is very nice and good that we in our country have the opportunity to challenge decisions taken by the public administration. That's what happened here. I have seen that the delay has been limited to one day. Did that one day give rise to a greater risk to public health? No, because those animals couldn't leave the company. All kinds of other hygiene measures were also taken. There has therefore been no greater danger to public health. I really like the fact that all the decisions we make can be challenged in court. I think this is very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	Did you answer Mrs Lodder's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yes, I answered Mrs Lodder's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thanks to the Minister. I heard his answer. I asked the question for the following reason. Public health may not have been at stake, but we do not know what would have happened if we had waited until Monday. I asked the question from the perspective of whether the law should be amended accordingly. Of course, any decision must be open to challenge. But it is a question of whether you can go ahead and get rid of it when public health is at stake. Now it's worked out well, but next time... I request that in the evaluation that doesn't have to be today or tomorrow to see if in an outbreak of infectious animal disease the law is so well composed that you can immediately proceed to slaughter. Of course there are procedures, but I think this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'll mention a few things. In this case, I think the urgency is well-judged by the court. It has put this case on the scene very quickly. So I think this was very good. If this had not been the case, what would have been the danger to public health? This danger could possibly occur in conjunction with activists who have wrong plans for such a company. For example, they can open the lofts; I've heard the craziest stories about it. Then there would be a danger to public health. This is, of course, a criminal offence in itself. This is not due to the late planning of the interim proceedings, but to an undermining activity of animal activists. So I do not know whether this is due to the planning of the interim proceedings. It is not possible, of course, to clear first and then have an interim ruling on it later. An application for interim measures must enable you to have suspensive effect on the implementation of a decision. So I wouldn't know how to organize this in a different way. And imagine if the situation were to occur that it would indeed take a very long time before such a trial takes place, then it is also up to the national authorities to convince the court that this is an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	Yeah? Finally, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister very well. And I do not want to disassociate the objector, but I do think that the public health aspect should be a guiding factor. My question is to the cabinet once again, very concretely: take this with you in the evaluation, take a good look at that law, because I believe that there has indeed been an intervention to bring that interim action to Friday, and not to allow it to take place until Monday. Because those were the first signals I got back: then you'll be a weekend away. It has gone well now, so I am not asking the question now either, but I want to make sure that it is well arranged that, if necessary, we can move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	Yes. I will check with Mr Schouten whether there should be anything extra. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Geurts' question. For example, why hasn't OMT-Z been specifically asked about ferrets and public health? The OMT-Z has been asked to indicate what it means for public health if other animal species, such as cats, were infected from permanently infected holdings, and there are also long-term infections in these species. The conclusion of the OMT-Z was based on current data that animals other than mink do not pose a threat to public health. By the way, in contrast to mink, ferrets are not production animals, but are kept as pets. So in that sense there is also no chance of large-scale holders, with the same chance of viral replication. Then Mr Graus' question whether otters can also form a reservoir. Mr. Graus is pointing to Mr. Geurts. Am I messing with you guys?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	They also look very similar, very confusing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yeah, that's right, now I see it. Otters are not kept animals, nor do they come into contact with humans. There's no reason to believe they're getting infected. They also live solitary. There is also no evidence at present that kept animals could form a reservoir or be a repeated source of infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Graus, Mr. Geurts was at the other microphone before. First, Mr Geurts, and then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. The difference between Mr Graus and me, that's for the viewers to judge. What matters is what I have been a little concerned about since the start of the corona outbreak: how can the transfer be from human to animal; and then on cats, for example, but ferrets are kept as pets. It is being investigated now, but I think it is very important that the ferrety now participates well in that investigation. Because when cats and ferrets form a reservoir, we really have a problem, because they just walk around in our families.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u29	Yes. Well, let's talk about just the word "reservoir." Look, a reservoir is when it is present for a very long time with a very large group of animals, who also pass that infection on to each other. But if you're talking about a single pet... Even if there were contamination, it would at some point be about it; for then you have experienced that disease, and it is done. Then there is not really any reservoir formation either. What's the point with those kept animals? For example, in the case of mink, the mothers have experienced the contamination. In those first companies, even 90% of the minks had already experienced that contamination. But they were young again. And what was the risk? After that maternal protection, that protection through the mother, is over, those puppies could get sick again, because you don't know to what extent that protection actually stays and it's likely that those puppies could get sick again. Well, and that about and over again, so on and so forth. This means that the contamination will actually last longer in that company, and this can lead to a re-contamination of the people on that company. That was the risk to public health. But that is of course not the issue at the moment when you have a single ferret at home, or a single cat. That is where the risk to public health really lies in a very different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u30	With one of the predecessors of this minister, I have ensured that, as far as turmeric investigations are concerned, there are investigations in the fight against cancer. I also mentioned resveratol at the time, but unfortunately nothing has happened to it. Now it seems that this can work very well against corona, but nothing has been done about it by the Ministry of Health for ten years, even though I did bring it in, as the Acts say. What is important is the following, and that is also what I was trying to make clear to Mr Geurts. An otter lays on its back in the sun and produces vitamin D because of that sun. During a general consultation and during a WHO I have already asked to investigate the relationship with a lack of vitamin D. Wild ferrets may get some sunlight, but minks are kept completely in the dark. I know from an internationally well-known vet from our country, Jacques Kaandorp, that exotics kept here are given very high doses of vitamin D.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u31	And the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u32	Well, I'd like this minister to take that. How is it that a mink living in the wild could probably never get corona? I think there's a relationship with the way we keep them...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Graus...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u34	...and that's not good because they're missing daylight and the production of vitamin D.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u35	And you want the Minister to come with you? Let me get this straight. Okay. That's an invitation you can say yes or no to, but it's good for vitamin D.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u36	Yes, I'm afraid I'm just going to have to acknowledge my superior here in Mr. Graus. I'm just a simple minister of health. The relationship between vitamin D in otters and the potential for corona contamination: I just don't have it on my retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u37	Well, then you'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yeah, well, I want to know. Okay, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to be invited again. It's very interesting here. This is just an outright upliftment of the people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u39	When Mr Graus joins, it is always very lively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. Then I think it would be good to answer a few more questions about the slaughterhouses. Mr Futselaar and Mrs Faber asked about the security regions, what they can and cannot do and what their roles and responsibilities are. The Presidents of the security regions shall be the competent authority at slaughterhouses to take action against those holdings or those persons in the event of infectious disease control. So that's about the measures you should take to combat the infection, that virus in an effective way. This is all on the basis of the Public Health Act: the designation given by the VWS Minister to the presidents of the security regions and then the emergency regulation that they themselves made on the basis of my designation. That's because it's an A disease. That is the legitimacy on the basis of which the Presidents of the security regions can act here. Not normally, if there is no A disease, the presidents of the security regions do not have any possibility of enforcing matters aimed at combating that virus other than regular licensing obligations. In addition, there are of course just the regular powers that the inspections have in their tool kit. So the NVWA simply has its powers, the Social Affairs Inspectorate simply has its powers; Mr Van Ark is about to comment on that. The presidents of the security regions are therefore entitled to take action against these companies because of being an A disease and the directions I have given them. But they'll do it differently. Mr Futselaar noted a number of differences between security regions. That is true, because there too a chairman of a security region always has to respect proportionality. I know of an example of a company that cooperated very proactively with the GGD to do a good sample, to examine the people and then to screen the gate properly from the next day with new employees who arrive: do you really have no complaints? Because then you have to stay home and get tested, et cetera. That company then worked well with the GGD. Of course, that's a company that you're dealing with in a different way than another example of a company I've heard. That was supposed to be a good sample from his staff and that sent all kinds of office staff to the test street. Then you have to deal with another type of company, where you also take a different type of measures as chairman of the security region to enforce that this company also complies with the measures taken to prevent the spread of that virus. This does not mean that all the powers are suddenly up to the security region. This also maintains the principle of proportionality, so you should always be able to explain as chairman of the security region that the measures you have taken are also in line with the facts that have been established. What you need to do is make sure that your approach also goes with the regular supervisors. It could be better there. Mr Van Ark will say something about this in a moment. What is happening at the moment is that the presidents of the security regions are working with the GGDs to ensure a plan of action. That will be more risk-oriented than I originally thought, because at first I said: testing all employees. That will really have to be a little risk-oriented and also staged on the basis of signals. Where it can be done better, it is in cooperation with other supervisors. That's what we need to do. Mr Van Ark will come back to that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u41	Have you answered all the questions relating to slaughterhouses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u43	Are you done with that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u45	That can't be true!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u46	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u47	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u48	Really!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u49	I'm proud of you! Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you. Sticker from the teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u51	Sometimes things aren't so bad, Mr. Chairman. With regard to security regions, I understand the argument that you have to deal with different companies in different ways and that there may be differences in security regions. But practically, on the day in Apeldoorn the vans led to the closure of a slaughterhouse, exactly the same vans in Boxtel also drove into the abattoir. That's just a reporter's reporter's report. I find it very difficult to explain that to people. But even more crucial, of course, is the fact that there is no degree of democratic control at all in security regions. Municipal councils and members of state have nothing to say about that. Only we may be able to say something about it, and we have you, I say to the Minister. So I would like to ask: is there a degree of supervision here, including from the cabinet, to ensure that this is drawn in one line? I say it quite honestly: there are just mayors there who may or may not have economic interests in letting certain companies go through with it. That weighting can play with that. Then I would like someone to watch with a view to public health and say: yes, hello, there must be action here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u52	The first thing I would like to say is: do not underestimate your colleagues in the municipal councils. They're certainly as critical as you are. As we speak, I believe that a chairman of a security region is responsible for the measures taken, or for not taking measures, in one of the municipal councils in the Netherlands. In short, it seems to me that democratic control is taking place. That's the first thing. Secondly, we are really going to talk about that law a number of times. The WPG, the law as you don't hear it, but one of your predecessors, Mr Spencer, also as co-legislator here in the Chamber, the Public Health Act, offers the Minister of VWS the possibility of pointing out if there is an A disease. We have said of this: perhaps, now that this disease persists for a very long time, we did not know of course when we were making that WPG, you will have to find another legal basis for measures that need to last longer. Most of the measures we have taken can be scaled down, but on the contrary, you may want a different type of legal basis and a different type of democratic legitimacy for measures that last longer. That's exactly what the covid law is about. We'll talk about that in detail. When it comes to the approach, you are right to say that it must be a nationwide structured and cooperative approach. That is also why the presidents of the security regions have said: we are going to shape this together with the GGDs. But I think they were right to say to us: then we also want the Empire to help us, because, of course, there are several ministries involved. In short: yes, many responsibilities, both on the side of the Empire and locally. We have to hang out together, because it has to be explainable what we do with those abattoirs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u53	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u54	I agree that it has to be explanatory. The Minister is unlucky that I myself have been a city councilman and a member of the State, and have tried to influence a security region. I know how hard that is. The fact that there is now a debate in Amsterdam is not because they have the right to monitor the security region, but because their mayor happens to be chairman of the security region. But if it had been the municipality of Muiden, they would have had no access to anyone in the security region. So there is indeed a problem of legitimacy. That may not be so bad, but at a time when these security regions are playing an increasingly important role in all aspects of public life, we have to ask ourselves how sustainable this is in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u55	With what you say, I think you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u56	You're absolutely right about that. What you just said didn't everyone hear, but I hear everything. I think it might be better to discuss it in another debate. These are fundamental questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u57	Of course, I'm deliberately saying some things outside the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u58	It could be the opening sentence of your contribution to the covid law debate, because that is exactly what it is about. What you just described is about the identity of that covid law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u59	Finally, Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u60	Yes, chairman, about the slaughterhouses. I hear the Minister reply to that very procedurally, but when I look at the Netherlands, I just see fireplaces at those slaughterhouses. It's just known they don't follow the rules to this day. You have said 'I am going to check it all out', but I do not feel the Minister's concern and urgency about this issue. So does the Minister share the view that if there are risks in the Netherlands, they are in the slaughterhouses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u61	Yeah, and a few more places. But certainly there too, because of the climatic conditions inside and because of the fact that they work with many migrant workers. Because of the fact that sometimes a single company pushes its moustache when it comes to making your employees work in a good way. In short, there is every reason to be hyperaltered. So we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u62	No, Mr. De Groot, I'm sorry. How many interruptions does Mr De Groot have left? Sorry, the employees are keeping a close eye on it. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u63	Hyperalert. Fine. But why is this screening even being scaled down? When a minister says "we're gonna do something risk-oriented," you're actually gonna do something a little less. At first I understood that all employees would be screened. Apparently, that's risk-oriented right now. So even though you're hyperaltered, you're gonna do a little less. I find that hard to explain. Now it seems that slaughterhouses, or at least this sector, like minks, are being treated separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u64	It may be as good to have on the retina what the purpose of testing by the GGD is. That is, of course, to detect infections and to ensure that the fire is kicked out in the fireplaces. That's the idea. At first I said with Mr Schouten: shall we test all the staff of those slaughterhouses? Then we had a discussion with the presidents of the security regions and with the GGDs. They have convinced us that this is a bit of an unfocused commitment from their people. They must also use them on other fireplaces within the region, for example in fruit growers, where a lot of migrant workers are also employed. There was an azc in Friesland where the GGD had to pull out. So where there are fireplaces, it's just the legal job of the GGD to jump on top of it. But it's where there's fireplaces. Then, I think, it is legitimate to say: let us work risk-oriented, so sample-based, and let us do so in stages, based on signals that we get. Not only slaughterhouses can act as a fireplace. There really are other fireplaces and the GGD has to put the people where they are most needed; that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u65	I will come back seriously to that vitamin D story, because I can see that it is not taken seriously. As I was right with a predecessor ten years ago about resveratrol and turmeric, I would like to ask you to take this a little more seriously, especially since I have been focusing on phytotherapeutics and pre- and probiotics for 20 years. I've shown something to doctors and scientists who didn't believe me. My own dog was diagnosed with bladder neck cancer and he needed to be put to sleep. I gave him very high doses of turmeric and also resveratrol and they were puzzled how long that dog had lived, when he had been given up four years earlier. So I have shown that with my own animal and with my own animal. They also get extremely much older than the average animal and that is also due to daylight, by vitamin D, the production of vitamin D. That story of mine is serious. I recently contacted Sjaak Kaandorp, one of the best exotic veterinarians in our country, and he says "it's known to the animals, including monkeys." We had to give them a lot of milligrams and units of vitamin D extra. It is also known that people who walk in completely covering clothes get much more problems with teeth, bones and all of them. Why isn't this being done? If some doctors say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u66	Okay, clear, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u67	...that vitamin D in very high doses is already used in colon cancer...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. Graus!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u69	Then why isn't this being dealt with preventively?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u70	You made your point very clear. More than clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u71	I already promised I'd look into that. By the way, I love lying in the sun. That's well known, I think, from me, so I'm a fervent lover of vitamin D. You had me at hello, I'd like to say. But I want to know all about that. The point is that on the long list of things I had to do, the effect of vitamin D on preventing corona contamination in otters wasn't exactly at the top of my list. But that's not so bad, is it? You'll forgive me for that, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u72	I think the debate is starting to derail a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u73	No, absolutely not. Absolutely not, because this can also be very important for people. That is why I would like to speak to the Minister as the humane keeper of the sheep: I think that this has so far been very underexposed. Also because of resveratrol I was laughed at for ten years, but now it is used by doctors against corona. Why did I mention it ten years ago? Because I've been using it in animals for 20 years. The point is that I want the vitamin D problem seriously investigated. There are a lot of doctors and also oncologists who agree with this story. Others will take it down, but practice shows that it is the same on our side and something will have to be done about it. I do not want to argue for too much sunlight, because then you get the discussion that that is bad, but you have to be able to get daylight and sunlight every day. Animals too, because also animals that sit in dark stables go to destruction and there it is full of diseases. Think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u74	I have nothing to add, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u75	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand had another question that has not yet been answered, I understand. And then Mrs. Fat-Faber. We're gonna wait for the mike to be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u76	I had asked about the decision of the security region to open Van Rooi Meat again, because the spokesperson of the GGD says that happened on the basis of a commercial test that RIVM says is not reliable. I'd like the Minister to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u77	I don't know. I'm not going to. I am not going to give the presidents of the security regions a clue and therefore charge them with taking measures, together with their GGD, and then look over their shoulders on the basis of which they all make those decisions. I can't live up to that, can I? I'm not gonna do that either. That is really up to the presidents of the security region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u78	The Minister wants to design the research into corona risk-oriented on the basis of signals. My question is how these signals get to the GDD, because I think risk-oriented monitoring is that you are also working on a sample basis, but I can honestly understand from the media that a number of places are actually looking at slaughterhouses themselves, that research is being carried out at the time the slaughterhouses themselves call. I'd think that was really wrong. I would really argue that, if there is indeed a limited human force, there should also be a competence for the GGDs themselves to carry out that supervision with the knowledge they have risk-oriented, so that they are not dependent on the slaughterhouses themselves, which I honestly have a little less confidence in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u79	But then I'm going back to the division of responsibility. An employer has a responsibility to comply with the law. In this case, compliance with the law is twofold. We are talking about compliance with all the working conditions legislation and, two, compliance with all the ordered measures we have taken to prevent the spread of that virus. There's a company, an employer, just sticking to it. In it, a slaughterhouse is no different than a fruit grower or the Albert Heijn or anyone else. You're just an employer first move. Of course, the GGD can never live up to all the companies that are potentially at risk, for example because there are certain climatic conditions, because there are certain working conditions or because there is a lot of work with migrant workers, by pulling the car wash or visiting the car wash itself and carrying out some sort of inspection. The G.D.D. is not an inspector. The GGD is simply the Municipal Medical Service and can test people who have complaints. When asking whether these people have complaints and need to be tested, the employer is indeed first responsible; in fact, those people themselves are, of course. But if they speak Polish and don't understand it, then the employer is responsible for pointing out to those people, if they have complaints, if they have to stay home and have them tested. That's the base. By the way, I agree with you that there is quite a lot of reason to look at these slaughterhouses in a somewhat more critical way than an average employer. That is why Mr Schouten and I have said that we need an extra tooth. At first, I said, "Go test them all." I have been persuaded by the GGD and the presidents of the security regions that this is a huge task and that it is the question of whether that is the most effective commitment of the people. A risk-oriented approach and a phased approach based on signals have therefore been chosen. Actually, I think that's a very good way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u80	Then the question remains with me: what signals are used? Do we actually end up in exactly those places where those abuses are? I do want these places to be dealt with. It is right for the Minister to say 'there must be very good employers', but at slaughterhouses I have some doubts about this in a number of places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u81	A number of abattoirs have, of course, already been examined. We've already worked hard on that. There, presidents of the security regions and the GGDs have also shown that they can operate very decisively. A number of other abattoirs are now also being screened, often first through a sample. So there's a lot of work going on. In the meantime, we are also working on a plan of action to look more broadly at this type of employer, with a higher risk profile................................................................................................................................................................................... But that must be done from the natural powers that exist. By definition, the GGD isn't a government inspection or anything. The GGD is the Municipal Medical Service, which can test and put people at home through source and contact research. This can be done by the GGD, but the Inspection SZW has the task of monitoring working conditions. There may be a signal coming from the Inspection SZW in the direction of the GGD in the sense of "hey, you have to take a look there, because it's no good there," or from the NVWA, who comes to visit somewhere and says "well, there's a very noisy cough here" or "it's very coughing here, in the morning, in vans," et cetera. That could be a signal to act. That is a signal to the chairman of the security region, who, together with his GGD, says: hey, you should take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u84	Then we wait for a moment for cleaning and then the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment gets the floor. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank you for the opportunity to exchange views with your Chamber today on the health aspect at work, which is related to this issue. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Ouwehand. I always say 44 is two fours, so you only have fours all year round. How beautiful is that! I would also like to start by mentioning a number of things, although Mr De Jonge has already mentioned a few of them. But perhaps I can also say in this context that health at work is really a top priority for me. Healthy and safe working is one of the main pillars of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, and of course especially when it comes to working healthy and safe at a time when health is under enormous pressure. That is, of course, the case in the situation we are now in. In our working conditions system, we have agreed that there is a primary responsibility on the part of the employer to ensure that people are able to work safely and safely. We are talking about situations that can be acute, such as accidents at work, but also about long-term situations. An important pillar of my portfolio that we are not talking about today is dangerous substances. He's a real assassin. This is a long-term occupational risk. But especially in times of corona, when it comes to health, that workplace is a very important factor. The employer has a very important responsibility. The same applies to the employee. Both are considered to comply with the Working Conditions Act and specifically in this situation with the RIVM guidelines. In that system, in which the employer and the employee have an important responsibility, the Inspection SZW supervises and maintains them where necessary. How does she do that? Risk-oriented. It also just came by in the light of the GDD. It's risk-oriented because the Inspection has SZW programs. It looks on the basis of history, but also on the basis of the signals it gets in which sectors it is important to look at and really give it the same attention. It certainly does so on the basis of complaints and signals. For example, the works council or a trade union can also send a signal to the Inspection SZW. Then the Inspection SZW must take care of that as well. What can the inspection do? First, it can impose a formal requirement and take action, and then check with the organisation whether the measures have been complied with. If this is not the case, further measures may be taken, including an administrative fine or even administrative coercion. The aspects of the workplace are, of course, the most important point for the inspection to focus on, but the inspection doesn't just do that, of course, because it operates in a field with other parties. The NVWA was already passing by, but I also mention the security regions and the GGDs. I like to repeat it to our inspector general: we act or we alert. You come on a field or in a situation where there are other organizations. Either you see something that belongs to you and you act on it, or you see something that is not your competence, but then you actively map it to the other organization. That was also a sketch of the field. Mrs Ouwehand asked: are we not at risk of things being thrown over the fence? I have just indicated that there is a need for cooperation with these other parties. Throwing over the fence can only work if there is someone on the other side of that fence who also picks up that package. If you have organisations with different tasks and different powers and responsibilities, it is very important, especially in the event of an outbreak such as now with the corona virus and especially in companies with a certain vulnerability to working conditions, such as abattoirs, that you be clear about that. In the event of an outbreak of the coronavirus, it must be clear within a holding what are everyone's tasks, powers and responsibilities. Then it is also very helpful to see in advance which supervisors are involved in such a company, for example. This can also be helpful in determining the role of testing, for example, in the event of an outbreak or in preventing an outbreak. That is also why we are currently working on roadmaps, also to make it regionally feasible with the help of the security regions. The fact that there are so many parties involved has also been a reason for the cabinet to appoint the recruitment team led by Mr Roemer, asking for concrete recommendations to be made in the short term in the corona crisis on the basis of the issues involved. In the longer term, we have also asked for recommendations to be made to the Cabinet on all kinds of issues that arise in areas where different supervisors are involved and where different ministries and municipalities are involved, in order to be better coordinated. This cooperation was also reflected in the motion referred to by Mrs Bromet. That motion was tabled and adopted following the consultation in which we discussed the Labour Migration Note of the SP and the Christian Union. In that notation consultation, that motion was given Court judgment. That motion was actually a perseverance and a spurring of what we are doing. The Inspection SZW has active programming in the meat sector, but of course, especially at this time, it also has reactive work on the basis of notifications. On top of that, the inspection currently has an additional commitment in the meat sector at slaughterhouses classified as risky. An inspection is also taking place at a slaughterhouse. We will continue to make that extra effort in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u86	Can I therefore assume that everything is well as long as we in the media do not hear or read about closing companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u87	The Minister also said when he gave his opinion on this motion that the guarantee contained in the original motion was unfortunately not possible. Because wherever people work, they have to come to work, and they live somewhere. So you can't guarantee that there will never be any contamination. What we have agreed with each other is that we certainly need to make extra efforts at this time in order to ensure that people are working in a healthy and safe way and that, if this does not happen and if we do not work in a safe way, we actually maintain it. But giving guarantees that there will be no contamination is unfortunately not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u88	I didn't ask about that either. I asked about the working conditions. The Secretary of State's answer reassures me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the inspection had sufficient capacity to do so. It has already been said for a very short time that giving guarantees is difficult, especially when you know that there are about 1.6 million organisations in the Netherlands, which of course all have to be checked for their working conditions. But there is a reason why we have this programme to do targeted research and to be able to intervene. With the coalition agreement, at least 50 million additional investments were made in the inspection SZW. This means that we have also been able to see in recent years that the number of inspections has increased and that more and more people are being added to the inspection. That goes with a slight delay, because people also need to be trained. For the sake of fairness, we are also, of course, dealing with the fact that, if there are many accidents at work, we can focus less on proactive or preventive matters. In general, however, I can say that we are becoming more and more programmatic and risk-oriented and, now that there is risky slaughterhouses, we are also able to zoom in on this specifically, together with the other organisations involved. Ms Ploumen asked whether the Inspection SZW was also used to monitor working conditions in mink-farming. That is not yet the case, because no reports have yet been received by the Inspection SZW. However, it is always good to have such a debate and I will at least draw attention to it in the SZW inspection as a result of this debate. In that case, if it sees any shortcomings, it will be able to take enforcement action and, if necessary, to shut it down on the basis of the Arbo Act. Mr. Chairman. Mr Futselaar said that a law has been passed in Germany which says that people can only work on the basis of a permanent contract at a slaughterhouse. He asked whether this could be done in the Netherlands. That is the Minister's area, but, of course, from my portfolio, we also have many debates with the Chamber on permanent work and flex work. However, on this particular issue, it is up to employers' and workers' organisations to agree on it. In Germany, they agreed to give employees a permanent contract. But I would like to say that the situation in the Netherlands is that when people are sick, even in slaughterhouses, they are paid for, even if they work at a temporary agency. We offer that protection here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u90	There is an interview in De Gelderlander today, I believe, with an owner of one of the employment offices known as one of the better. He says: one room per employee cannot, because then the earning model under our way of working is gone. We're talking about grown-up people here. That is not a working model that we in the Netherlands still have to want to have together today, is it? That earning model is that several people are being shoved into a room, and that way you can make migrant workers earn maximum for you. Besides the employer, the landlord also does, of course, because that is tasty. That's not twenty-first century in the Netherlands, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u91	Let me be very clear about that. Whether you're from the Netherlands and working here or working here: people need to be able to work decent, honest, healthy and safe. That is what we have laws and regulations for, and that applies to everyone. We see in practice that there are problems. I agree with Mr Futselaar. We have had a whole debate on this and we have set up a team under the direction of Mr Roemer. We see that there are problems, including housing; sometimes also housing across borders, because people work at a Dutch company but live in Germany. That can't be arranged with just one pencil stroke. We are seeing problems in the field of transport. We're seeing problems in the workplace. Whether they are migrant workers or not, these are people in a vulnerable position. That is precisely why we have said with all these different departments, with the security regions and the municipalities, but also with the other supervisory bodies: we need to work better together, because it must be clear that everyone must be able to work safely and safely. Just passing a law to get people into permanent employment doesn't put an end to all these problems with one stroke of pens. I agree with Mr Futselaar that there is a problem. I hope that Mr Roemer's opinion, which I hope to obtain in the short term, will provide a basis for finding solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u92	I have no doubt that very good advice will come out of that. We are talking specifically here today about abattoirs. This is a problem specific to abattoirs. I'm not interested in whether or not someone is an employee. This is a specific problem in the earning model behind abattoirs, in both the Netherlands and Germany. In this respect, the situations are very similar. I therefore believe that we should also tackle the earning model. That is still separate from where people come from, how they get access and all the other labour legislation we have. There's just something structurally wrong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u93	It is also for nothing that we have focused the search light enormously on a number of abattoirs from the inspection SZW. Things are not going well in a number of places. It must be very clear that whoever works where in the Netherlands, it is up to the employer to ensure that people can do so safely. So I totally agree with that. I think it is very good that we pay that attention to that. Mr. Chairman. There was another question from Mr Geurts, actually to the Minister of LNV. I have actually considered it a bit as a question on the SZW site, because it deals with the remuneration of seasonal work in agriculture and horticulture. That is something that is included in the collective agreements in question. The reward must be fair, with minimum legal minimum wage. That was just the subject of a few moments ago. This is also something the SZW inspection is monitoring: the minimum minimum minimum wage must be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I am looking at Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u95	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. I would like to point out that for mink-farming, and to some extent also for slaughterhouses, there is a separate status. We shut down the whole of society on the basis of a law in which we take 100% of the measures with 50% of the knowledge. Now we're gonna wait a long time at the minks until we know everything and we can take legal measures. Only then will action be taken, with a possible risk to public health. Mr. Chairman. D66 has made it clear that it is a dilemma. D66 wants to get rid of the mink farms, preferably tomorrow, but not at any price. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas slaughterhouses have repeatedly failed to comply with RIVM rules;]] [[Whereas this entails major risks to public health;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to reduce the slaughter rate for the safe operation of staff;]] [[Whereas there is a risk of a shortage of slaughter capacity in the event of closure, with the risk of overcrowded stables and animal welfare problems;]] [[considers that pig and poultry farmers should not suffer from this;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that slaughterhouses take (financial) responsibility for a possible reduction in slaughter capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u96	Two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u97	If it's very short, you can file one motion, otherwise it'll be another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u98	Yeah, okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mink farmers have been given a long transitional period to cease farming;]] [[Whereas the government is developing a generous accompanying policy regime, for example for the demolition of stables;]] [[calls on the Government to set up this scheme in such a way that mink holders are activated to stop quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u99	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has taken far-reaching measures to combat the coronavirus;]] [[Considering that the Minister for Medical Care and Sport and the Minister for Justice and Security, on the basis of Article 7 of the Public Health Act, have given the Presidents of the Security Regions an indication to implement these far-reaching measures;]] [[noting that mink can also infect people with the corona virus and that this route of contamination should also be prevented;]] [[noting that, among other things, RIVM warns that everything must be aimed at preventing us from creating a reservoir of millions of animals in which the virus can continue to be around;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, by a designation, a ban on the professional breeding of animals that are detectable for the coronavirus and can form a reservoir;]] [[calls on the Government to provide financial compensation along the same lines as for other sectors affected by these measures, taking into account the compensation already paid or being paid because of the expulsions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u100	Then a short motion without consideration, because you are strict and rightly so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to take the national approach to combating the further spread of the corona virus in the meat industry from the point of view of public health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the ban on the transport of mink as long as there is a threat that the corona virus will continue to emerge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to direct slaughterhouses to significantly reduce the rate of slaughter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1109]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1110]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you very much. Excuse the cabinet for the scribbles on my motions. I have therefore deleted considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u102	I shall now give the floor to Mr Graus for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u103	About the last motion, indeed. After all the abuses in the slaughterhouses, the Minister has already promised to reduce the rate of slaughter. I find that difficult because it has already been promised by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u104	That's right. That is what the Minister has promised, and that is very relevant, because we have already found before the corona crisis that the pace was far too high to ensure food safety and animal welfare rules. Then the corona crisis broke out and everything got much worse. Now the trade unions also say that these slaughter rates should go down, because people cannot work safely. That is why the request is now, immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u105	That's good. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u107	I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, and maybe it will be legendary. In any case, I will present it together with Mrs Bromet from the Green Left Group. But honesty commands us to say that Mrs Lodders has thought with us and me behind the scenes and has given moral support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u109	As a mediator.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u110	So this is how I express my gratitude towards Mrs. Lodders. The Minister of LNV asks: has Mrs Lodders GroenLinks and the CDA brought together? Then I can do an exorcism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u111	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u112	The answer is no. But maybe, who knows what we can bring back together today or the next few days. But before I'm running out of time and I can't even think about it anymore: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on mink farms the severity of COVID-19 varies from asymptomatic, mild to severe;]] [[Whereas the Outbreak Management Team Zoonose (OMT-Z) considers an early cessation scheme for non-contaminated mink companies to be a real option and is divided in relation to preventive clearance of non-contaminated companies;]] [[Whereas the early cessation scheme should be designed so attractively that mink holders stopped by the end of 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward by the end of June 2020 with a decent stopper regime for mink farming and a proposal for financial coverage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. There were already a thousand-and-one reasons to stop mink farming in the Netherlands. That's where Corona is now. Every day it takes longer for the last mink keeper to close his toko, there's one. That is why we felt that we should work with the CDA to put an end to mink farming this year. It's been a long time; we've talked for years. But I hope that by the end of this year it will be over and over forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u114	Thank you. Mr De Groot, do you have a very short question? Because I think there has been enough discussion between you and Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u115	In the first term, I asked Mrs Bromet what consequences she thought she would have for her commitment. I know Mr Geurts. Mr Geurts is right to the point when it comes to mink farmers. I respect him for that, too. You're going down here for a decent settlement. The Minister has also explained very clearly what the legal status of mink owners is; they have a very separate legal status. That means you're definitely going to pay more than a million when it comes to a decent settlement. So we're going to spend 160 to 200 million euros on that. Are you aware of that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u116	I do not know what Mr De Groot is trying to do here. Is he trying to warn me about his own coalition associates? I've had an excellent understanding on this motion with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u117	If things are finally going to work out, Mr De Groot is going to get a little caught up in a good relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u118	I do not need Mr De Groot's warning. I'll stand my own man.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u119	You stand up to your wife, too, and your human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr President, GroenLinks simply goes here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr. De Groot, come on, don't be so unkind. I call Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Debates sometimes take place in a special way. I would like to thank the directors for their first reply. I think we have had a good debate. People are worried and it is right that we should pay attention to this in this Chamber. I would like to thank Minister De Jonge for the commitment to take a closer look at the legislation together with Minister Schouten. I say again that this does not have to happen in the short term. But when it comes to compulsory public health clearance, I do believe that this must be properly enshrined in the law. I note that we have not yet come closer to each other when it comes to reporting obligations, through veterinarians, for all animals. I'm sorry about this. I will continue to monitor developments closely. I'm not doing this for myself, but I think we should know in time what's going on. We can do research in time, because we don't have all the knowledge at the moment. I have asked the Minister of LNV to put energy into clearing the farms and designing a decent scheme so that empty stables are not refilled and other mink companies can stop earlier. We just saw a collaboration between the CDA and GroenLinks. I think that in the first period I have given sufficient indication of the position of my group in this regard. I'll close with that. I've asked the Minister to say something about that, but I understand why she's not doing this. By agreements on tax clearance, I mean, for example, the company follow-up scheme, so that it does not run into each other's wheels. But this is very detailed. Take this, I'd say. However, I would like to get a response to the agreements with the province and the municipality about the emptying of the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u126	I would like to ask Mrs Lodder if she is aware that support for the Geurts motion means that a lot of money goes from hard-working, tax-paying Dutch people to mink farmers, who are already millionaires themselves? Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u127	No, because I didn't see any figures in the motion. In the past few months, even before the corona age, I've spoken to a lot of mink owners. These are real people who are in deep shit. I think that Mr De Groot is the chairman, and I say this through you, Mr De Groot, who really takes an attitude that hurts me from time to time; not so much towards me, I have broad shoulders and it falls off again. But people look and they feel hurt. I'm so sorry about that. I stand here in front of those people, in front of the mink farms, in front of our public health, together. I hope the Cabinet will do the right thing to ensure that we can contain the corona virus and that these people can stop in a decent way. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u128	I'm being addressed, so I'd like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u129	Yeah, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u130	D66 represents all the people affected by the corona crisis. D66 also wants to resolve this in a just way, but not by helping specific groups with gold-edged schemes. That's the difference between the CDA, the VVD and D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u131	I would like to make one final point. I think we are trying to have a good debate here. We are trying to stand up for all people and first and foremost for public health. For months, people have been working hard here to put public health at number one. We have other debates in which we also talk about corona, related to other sectors. No gold-edged schemes are being released here. I really object to that. I want this to be included very clearly in the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u132	You did. Thank you. Then we wait for a moment, Mr. Graus, because the messenger cleans the chair first. Yeah, that's it. Thank you. Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you, Madam President. I just got a message through WhatsApp from someone who was also hurt, namely the vet from the NVWA I mentioned. He was just dropped off while I was wearing him as a whistleblower. It's not the first time the best man's been thrown away. Last time, he was right, too, from the Inspector General of NVWA, Mr. Paul. And that man has been right for the second time, and then he is put away a bit under the heading "personal labour conflict" while there is no labour dispute at all. The best man just warned about what happened to all those Romanians. I have also mentioned this here a few times in debates: do not do it; do not bring people here to explain about animal welfare. And how they're all stuffed up in those vans... You can wait for trouble, especially in times of corona crisis. And I'm very sorry, because the vet involved was not an employed person. That was a practicer, so just a vet who also works for the NVWA, and he did that in his spare time, pro bono. He didn't get paid for it, no public money. He has worked for these investigations and for those people who have got into trouble, and also for safety. Without self-interest, because he wasn't hit at all. But he warned me, and he called me in as a Member of Parliament. And I've put that with several people, too, but nothing has been done with it for two months until it came out. And then all of a sudden, when the press gets involved, something's gonna get done with it. And MPs, the highest office in the Netherlands, are just laughing away. And that vitamin D, the last thing I'm gonna say. I had another minister here who laughed about resveratrol. Now it's being used for corona. I mentioned it ten years ago, but nothing was done with it: go stock up, go do something for it! Now the product has become very expensive, and also scarce. And that's what's gonna happen to vitamin D again. It's all being funny about it and laughing about it, but it's a very serious matter, this. And it should actually be investigated. Take a look at the blue zones, I've asked you before...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u134	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u135	There are virtually no cardiological and oncological problems in blue zones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u137	Please do something with that, that's what I was gonna say. Preventive is better than curative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u138	The debate started so quietly, but it goes completely wrong. I call Mrs Ploumen, on behalf of the PvdA. And he's got a motion on him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I, along with Mrs Ouwehand, put forward a motion to stop mink breeding immediately in the interests of public health. And it's always good to have a plan B, and I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has put many people and entrepreneurs in financial difficulties;]] [[whereas the public authorities often only partially compensate for this financial damage;]] [[noting that mink holders are fully compensated for the damage caused in the event of removal;]] [[noting that mink farmers do not contribute to the Animal Health Fund;]] [[calls on the Government to make its own contribution to the disposal of mink holders as long as mink holders do not contribute to the Animal Health Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions and a brief question, if I have time for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been decided to dispose of mink where corona has been established;]] [[Whereas the mink sector ceased to exist in the Netherlands in 2024;]] [[Whereas the presence of infected holdings gives rise to serious concerns among residents and poses an acute risk to public health;]] [[Considers that it is undesirable in this context to re-stock abandoned stables with mink in the future;]] [[calls on the government to make the most of its efforts to prevent the re-launching of cut-off companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u141	Dan: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there have been unacceptable situations with regard to corona in several slaughterhouses in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that there is a direct link between the living and travelling conditions of these workers, who are employed to a large extent through employment offices on temporary contracts;]] [[noting that in Germany, where there have been very similar circumstances, it has been decided to grant only fixed contracts in the slaughter industry from 2021 onwards;]] [[considers that the Dutch situation also requires substantial intervention and that a level playing field with Germany is desirable;]] [[calls on the government to follow the German example in this regard, preferably through legislation, and otherwise through binding agreements with the sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u142	So I'll leave the government some room for execution. Finally, a question about the Animal Health Fund, because the Minister of LNV says: I am going to see whether mink farming should not be included. My question is: should we not also look at a number of other sectors? Think of horses, rabbits, which are also kept commercially and are not now included in the fund. Should we ever have a pandemic to deal with in the future, it might be useful to be prepared. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Finally, Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers and the Secretary of State for answering all the questions that have been asked. It is a difficult time for mink farmers and a hard time for the people who work in the slaughterhouses. So I think we've had a very meaningful debate with each other. I don't have any motions of my own right now. However, I am pleased to see that there is broad support in this Chamber for a stopper regime. There is also a wish that the stables of mink keepers which are now being disposed of should not be refilled. I heard the Minister right when she said she wanted to talk to the sector about a stopper arrangement. I think it's important to give room for that conversation right now. I have seen several motions on that point. If CDA and GroenLinks find each other, it might be worth supporting their proposal. So I'm going to advise my group to support that motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Very briefly, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u146	Madam President, yesterday you witnessed me talking about it. So here we look at which parties do it: if CDA and GroenLinks do it, it is interesting to support. Please look at the operative part and not at the author. That's why my good motions are getting killed over and over again, because I'm a PVV tock. You shouldn't look at the parties, you should look at the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u147	But yesterday, the PvdA and GroenLinks fully embraced your speech. Really. Then it's all made up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u148	I'm kind of taking stock of what you've been sitting here for so long. What hurts me is that after ten or twelve years there are pieces coming back here again and again that I have already inserted, and this is purely from party politics. I'm gonna keep hammering on that until it changes. I think the system here is perverse, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u149	No, it's not that bad. Really. This was a general remark, but you may respond to it, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u150	Well, we've certainly supported motions from the PVV as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u151	Yes, that also applies to other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u152	It is about the operative part, and if there are any good proposals, we support it. It seemed to me that this proposal by CDA and GroenLinks is worth supporting, certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. That was the second term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u154	I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr. Chairman. Very good. We haven't really seen each other in so long, but now we know. The motions, first of all the motion in part No. 1106 of D66. I don't recommend that motion. I am going to call on the abattoirs to shoulder their responsibilities and not to abuse the situation in the event of the temporary loss of slaughter capacity. I've done that before, and I'm gonna keep doing that. The prices, the yields, are created in the market. I cannot allow them to make price agreements on this either. You're gonna have competition problems. Nor do I now have a title to impose on them that they will pay for what happens next in the chain with the loss of slaughter capacity or other things. I've always said, "Just look at each other and see how you handle it." I'll keep doing that. Only this motion goes one step further and I must therefore advise against it. The second motion, in part No. 1107, by Mr De Groot, who is asking the government to set up the scrapping and conversion scheme in such a way that it also has some sort of stairs; let me just put it that way. I just said that the arrangement will be before your Chamber next Friday. I have to do that; I have to go through those deadlines of the veil and also at the Council of State. If I am going to wait for a very long time to do so, if I am going to take the regulation back and adjust it again first, because it is not in this case and then go back to your Chamber and then send it back to the Council of State, then I will come too far in time. Then it'll be about next year before I can activate that arrangement, if your Chamber agrees. Then we are really late, if we also want a choice to be made this year. I would suggest: look at the way the rules are worked out in your Chamber. There is a veil; you can then form your opinion on that. On that basis, I would advise against this motion, but I understand that Mr De Groot will agree with that when the veil is there. Then I'll take note of that and then we'll look at how we'll continue to deal with it. Then the motion to part No. 1108 by Mrs Ouwehand and Mrs Ploumen. There's two requests in there. The first is a breeding ban for all animals that are detectable for the coronavirus and can form a reservoir. That goes a long way, because then you also go for healthy animals that are not infected, even now determining things about breeding bans. We have also talked about the research into the cats that are running. It would therefore have all these implications. Apart from the practical aspect, that is also legally a complicated thing. I do not have the authority to suddenly impose a breeding ban on healthy animals. The second question is to shape the compensation along the same lines as for other sectors. Mr De Jonge has already said a few things about this, including in his contribution. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u156	However, I would suggest that all of Mrs Ouwehand's motions should be dealt with first. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u157	The fourth motion, in part No. 1109, it's not for me. That's what my colleague De Jonge, I think, is gonna do. The motion in part No. 1110 calls for the ban on the transport of mink to be maintained as long as there is a threat that the corona virus will continue to emerge. I'm going to try to reach out to Mrs. Ouwehand. If she amends the motion to "call on the government to maintain the ban on the transport of mink as long as there is a risk of spreading the virus between companies," I can leave that judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u158	I'm gonna take a serious look at that. I understand that the Minister would advise the motion otherwise; I can fill that out in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u159	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u160	Can you repeat it for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u161	As long as there's a risk of spreading the virus between companies. That's a maximum effort, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u162	Got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u163	You had another question, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u164	I have another motion from Mrs Ouwehand, on item No. 1111: calls on the government to direct the slaughterhouses to reduce the slaughter rate significantly. Mr Graus pointed out that I have already promised that we will see how this open standard can be met by NVWA, and what is a good pace of slaughter. I'd like to conclude that investigation first, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u165	A brief question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u166	My question concerns the motion I tabled together with Mrs Ploumen, which I actually thought Minister De Jonge would deal with. When the Minister says that she is referring to the wording 'a ban on the professional breeding of all animals that can be detectable for corona and form a reservoir', I say: I am looking at the system that the cabinet has previously used for the far-reaching measures. It includes, for example, a ban on the opening up of designated establishments. That's what I mean about the motion. So they could also be designated species. I have explicitly sought to link up with the grounds put forward by the cabinet itself in order to impose all kinds of restrictions. That's how you see it here. If something needs to be changed, and if the government points out which species it is, I agree with it. So that's how the government gets to read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u167	I think that Mr De Jonge will respond to the last request, but the request was with me before, because it was about a breeding ban. It's a little complicated when we're sitting here with two regiments, but on the basis of the request addressed to me, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u168	Exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mr De Jonge can then comment on that. He's about the part of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u170	Well, then it's a little complicated. On one part, the motion is dissuaded, but on the other part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u171	Mr De Jonge has to go into that. He now says "dissuade," but he himself may explain why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u172	Well, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u173	It is a matter of whether Mrs Ouwehand can hold her motion. The minister's gonna come back to that tire speed, the slaughter speed. That's what the motion is about. I do not know when the Minister will be presenting this, but perhaps Mrs Ouwehand will be able to hold the motion. However, I must be able to give a vote to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u174	I come in the autumn with that research and with the implementation of the open standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u175	Well, then you have an answer to that, too, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u176	It is up to Mrs Ouwehand how to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u177	Whatever you want, you have until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u178	Yes, but the motion calls for "directly" and it's really necessary now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u179	Okay, so you're not holding the motion. No? Then that's clear, too, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u180	Then we come to the declaration of love between Mr Geurts and Mrs Bromet. Something nice could blossom in this room. I suddenly see all kinds of changing coalitions emerging and changing...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u181	... contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u182	Yes, it is remarkable that we can also see this during this debate. I understand the background to this motion in part No. 1112. I have just indicated that the cabinet is in the process of asking whether and, if so, how we can implement such a regulation. This motion calls for a proper settlement by the end of June 2020. I asked: give me a moment, because I really need to go through a number of things. If I don't, things can't go well. I think it is very important that we clarify this in good time. But also that I have a little time to do it right. A proposal for financial coverage is also requested. It is, of course, a good practice here not to make any uncovered motions. I am now being asked to give financial coverage. I understand the port of this motion, but I would really like to ask you to keep it, so that it gives me the opportunity to take a good look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u183	I'll get in touch with Mrs Bromet about that. We shall come back to that at another time before the votes. Here's what I'd like to tell you about the cover. I agree with the Minister that we should not table any uncovered motions. It has been quite a struggle between Mrs Bromet and me to indicate "how do we do that?" But we don't know any amounts. Then it's hard to find cover. We don't know what's going on in the Ministry either, because that's not clear at the moment either. If we have the budget items after Princess Day, we'd better know where to look and where not to look. That is the hesitation and our motivation to ask the cabinet for help, together with the proposers to seek cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u184	And you'll let me know before Tuesday...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u185	I will discuss this with Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u186	The intention of the motion is to put an end to mink breeding this year. So that date of June is not very important, if it can be worked out in such a way that it is done with mink breeding on 1 January. So I'd like to explain something to you from the Minister. Then about coverage: we've spent millions, billions on corona measures. Not all of them are covered, so I would encourage the Minister to be creative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u187	Creative, yeah. In this case, I should especially call on the Minister of Finance to be creative. Maybe you could tempt him to do that. I understand the request to have an arrangement this year so that those mink owners can make the assessment of what that means for next year. Of course, that's what it's aimed at. I can therefore confirm this in reply to Mrs Bromet's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u188	No, Mr. De Groot, you're not going to ask the same question about the same motion. No, I'm sorry. You want to ask the Minister for her opinion? That's my next question; that's what I'm hired for. What is the verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u189	Because it's so open, it's not recommended. I cannot find any cover in this and the date also sounds problematic to me, but I did say that I understand what the portee of the motion is and that I therefore ask to hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u190	Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u191	The motion in part No. 1113 calls on the government to make its own contribution. I have explained what the system is for compensation for clearing. That system, including the law, states that we must apply the current market value. So there is no room in that arrangement for us to work with our own contribution, and that is why I must advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1114. I have just indicated that the Cabinet is examining whether, and if so how, a stopper arrangement can be put in place and that we are trying to get these companies to be tempted to the maximum, let me put it this way, not to start up again. If that is also the portee of this motion, then that judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u192	And Mr Futselaar's next motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u193	I don't do that. Mrs. Van Ark does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u194	The problem is that the stopper scheme focuses on all mink holders, as far as I understand. This motion is really about the places where they've been cleared. The motion wants to ensure that at least the stables that are already empty are not flooded again. That is a bit of a category apart; that is why I formulated the motion in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u195	I get that. Only, legally speaking, I have no reason to distinguish between decommissioned and unexploited companies. That's where I hesitate to make that distinction. That's why I'm broadening the motion myself. If Mr Futselaar is asking to zoom in specifically on the farms that have been destroyed, then I should advise against the motion. If she says "calls on the government to make the most of its efforts to prevent companies from restarting mink keeping," then I could explain to her as being in line with whatever we want as a cabinet. So if the word "clear" comes out, I can give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u196	Yeah, what are you gonna do, Mr. Futselaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u197	Let me be honest: there is really little point in tabling motions that do what the cabinet is already doing. That's what the coalition parties are for. So I'm gonna tell her more clearly in my own way and I'm gonna take the possible dissuade from the Minister as a consequence of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u198	Well, Mr Futselaar, thank you for this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u199	Technically, I'd have to dissuade the motion, even though I know what it's asking for. It is always difficult with Mr Futselaar's motions. Anyway, I hope he understands what I'm saying and that that's not meant to be some kind of opposition to his motion. I have one more question from Mr Futselaar. What about other sectors and the DGF? I'm going to inform the Chamber about my research into whether minks can join the DGF. In that letter I will also return to this question, because I just need to find out a little bit more. One more thing to Mr Graus. He was talking about the practical person who felt hurt because the impression was created that there was a labour dispute. I didn't say that. I don't know, because I don't know about this particular case, and that was exactly the port of my answer. Then I do not know how to judge it, and I am not going to. It was therefore not intended to be an accusation against this person, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u200	Very briefly, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u201	You're tired, aren't you, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u202	No, not at all. I've got all night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u203	I'll pass it on in a minute. I'll call the best man right away, but the minister said something about it, as he understood it, "I can't interfere with labour disputes," but this is obviously not a labour dispute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u204	But I didn't say that. I said I don't know what's going on, so I can't respond to it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u205	No, that's good; this is all good. This is all accepted. I'll make sure of that. Thank you for the commitment, because the best man has already been contacted and I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u206	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u207	Thank you. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Two motions. On the motion-Ouwehand/Ploumen in part No. Mr Schouten has already commented on the substance of the ban on breeding. But I would like to add, for the sake of the form chosen here, that a designation does not exempt the cabinet and also the presidents of the security region from respecting proportionality. For that reason too, with everything that has been said about this in the first term, I would like to advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1109, also by Mrs Ouwehand. It invites the government to take the lead nationwide in countering the further spread of the coronavirus in the meat industry. All observations and considerations have then been deleted for the sake of time. But then, for the sake of time, I will use Mr Futselaar's argument to discourage this motion. A motion asking for something that the cabinet is already doing seems to be reserved for the coalition, so in this case I would advise against the motion. We're doing it. We are already taking the lead in getting an approach in the meat industry. So this motion is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u209	A brief comment, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u210	It would be nice if it were true, but we don't see much of that direction in practice. I would also like to put a question to this Minister on the motion for a resolution on item No. 1108. We are talking about a ban on breeding animals that are detectable for the coronavirus and that can form a reservoir. Can he confirm that at the moment those are the mink and not the cats? Minister Schouten seemed to be falling over that. These are the things RIVM and OMT have warned you about, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u211	Yes, and that also makes the observation that stands before it a bit strange. Then it's about creating a reservoir of millions of animals, where the virus continues to be around. The OMT has said that they see that especially in the minks at the moment. What I'm tripping over here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u212	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u213	... is that here the legal form of a designation is chosen. That's a clue in the security region. You should not want to arrange a breeding ban through a designation in a security region. That seems kind of weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u214	Mrs Ouwehand, you may briefly explain what you mean and then it is really ready, because you can simply put your motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u215	The Minister may not know it very well, but there are almost 5 million mink in mink farming right now, so it is a matter of millions of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u216	Yes, but it's about keeping the infection present in the company. I think we have really talked about this in detail. I would just like to say something to Mr Graus. I'm seriously going to come back to that question about vitamin D. I will look into what is currently being researched. It is just a commitment that I will not honour tomorrow, because there are still a few more things on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u217	Good. Mr. Graus, your question will be dealt with seriously. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u218	Thank you, Mr President. There is one more motion from Mr Futselaar. This motion in part No. 1115 calls for the German example to be followed, preferably by legislation and otherwise by binding agreements. That is a motion which lies in the hands of the SZW Minister, but I do not recommend it, although I would like to add that the cabinet does recognize the problems Mr Futselaar has indicated. That's why we've asked the chasing team to come up with an opinion. That advice really comes in the short term. That comes, from my mind, tomorrow and the cabinet will also respond very quickly. We want to solve the problems that exist, but the employers' and employees' organisations are really the place to make agreements on this, for example in the collective agreement. The cabinet doesn't want to interfere. On top of that, the question arises as to whether only the provision of a fixed contract is the solution to all the problems that have been identified, such as housing and transport. With that, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u219	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-7.u220	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, the Minister of VWS and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
