ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u1	Today, we begin with Mrs Kröger's question on behalf of GroenLinks to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State about the flight of Corendon to Turkey despite a negative travel advice. I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. On January 31, long before the corona virus had penetrated all corners of the planet, I asked written questions about how it was decided to stop certain flights to prevent the spread of the virus. Is it not undesirable to leave this to the individual consideration of commercial parties, I asked. And now, five months, half a million dead, millions sick and billions of economic damage later, I'm actually asking again. The reason for this is that holidays are offered to Turkey on a large scale. People want to go on vacation. That is a commercial consideration at the moment. There's a question, so we're gonna offer it, with all the risks it entails. But that is hard to explain to all those companies that have suffered huge losses, to all those employees in the care that have been working themselves to pieces? Just when we have the situation in the Netherlands under control again, we risk losing it. Because let's be honest: that virus didn't spread by train or sailing ship. Through aviation it has ended up in all corners of the world. As the Netherlands, with the worldwide hub Schiphol in the heart of our country, we are really extra vulnerable. This requires targeted policies to mitigate risks. So that's what my questions to the Minister are about. What measures are being taken to prevent the spread of corona from high-risk areas to the Netherlands? Did the Minister have the fact that 70 flights a week to Turkey take place on radar? Earlier she told us that the situation is monitored weekly. So what is actually being done with this monitoring? And does the government want to prevent large-scale air traffic to areas with code orange? This is true for Turkey, but of course it is equally true for Brazil, the US and India. The decision whether or not to go is now left to individual responsibility, while the risk of dissemination is a collective problem. To what extent is the current system of travel advice sufficient for the current corona crisis? And what measures do we take at Schiphol Airport to prevent further contamination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kröger is quite right that we still have to stay very focused on preventing the spread of the virus. The virus isn't gone yet. So we really shouldn't let that focus go any further. You also know that Turkey and a lot of other countries are on the list with an orange travel advice. I would like to emphasise this once again, should people have any other ideas: an orange travel advice means that you should go there alone for a necessary journey. Then your question is probably right away: is vacation a necessary journey? No, that doesn't include vacation. Family visits are not included either, unless of course it is a death or something like that; those are the exceptions that everyone can think of. So that stays on. The follow-up to the entry ban as it currently stands is currently being finalised in Europe. I do not know which countries may go to yellow, but if holiday trips to Turkey are now offered, that is ahead of possible decision-making. I do not know at all whether the travel advice for Turkey will go to yellow or not, because that would change the situation. This also applies to all kinds of other countries. If the travel advice remains orange, whatever it is now, it only applies to necessary travel, and otherwise it doesn't. This applies to all companies, whether they are Dutch or foreign airlines flying on the countries with orange travel advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Minister now zooms in on one specific situation. My question was, of course, broader. And that question was also on January 31st. When the corona crisis broke out, we flew for a very long time on destinations where we can say afterwards: that was a very high risk. At the moment, there are countries with an orange status that are still being extensively flown, such as Brazil. There are also flights to India, partly via Charles de Gaulle. The question is: what are we doing, as the Netherlands, in concrete terms, to reduce the risk when people arrive in the Netherlands? So what happens at Schiphol? What kind of advice do these people get? How do we ensure that the fact that we have the Schiphol hub, with flights from all kinds of areas, does not lead to further spread and contamination? I think that these concerns live on a wide scale, that a lot of people in the Netherlands and also in the Chamber have those concerns. I hope that the Minister will come up with a more concrete package of measures to show us how to further mitigate the risks of aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u6	That is why we have also established that people have to fill out a health statement. That applies to all those countries with orange advice. They have to fill in people in advance. That's being checked, too. The GGD also carries out samples. We have recently discussed the physical measures in aviation. And everyone who comes back from such an area, even if it was a necessary journey, for example for a funeral, a two-week home quarantine. And that doesn't change anything. That's a steady line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u7	It's one thing we say on the website: home quarantine. But what's happening? There's a plane landing. People arrive at Schiphol Airport. Do they get a test, are their temperature measured? How loud are they going to hear: you're going into home quarantine? I would like to add one more element. The minister just suggested that we've already talked about the physical measures on the plane. In my view, it is now clear that there is no European investigation into the operation of the HEPA filters on an aircraft. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again whether they are leaving the Netherlands, are in the air for that entire flight, and are there, and come back again with a concrete plan on how to mitigate those risks. Because I hold my heart when I see that in our country, with so much aviation, with a big airport in the heart of the country, there is a lot of exposure to the risk of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u8	Now Mrs Kröger is going to bring in a lot of things. I'll try to answer it as best I can. I just indicated that there is a health statement and that there is a check on it. Both the airline and the GGD are sampling whether people actually have that health statement. If there is doubt at the airport or by an airline, the GGD can also be used to get a doctor to look at someone. And the home quarantine must of course also be well marked. Both the airline and the airport pay attention to this. Your question about the HEPA filters, of course, also had to do with a motion by Mr Paternotte. I have already indicated that we are acting on the basis of the advice of the RIVM. RIVM says that the droplets with which the virus spreads are so large that they are stopped by a HEPA filter. Then Mr Paternotte asked: is this supported by broad scientific research? I checked that and I informed your Chamber yesterday that this research is not taking place in the RAGIDA research group in Europe, but that I am now mapping out how we can do so with the knowledge we have in the Netherlands of the NLR and RIVM as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I can see that almost everyone wants to ask a supplementary question. I made a list. First of all, that is Mr Kuzu. I also saw Mr Van Raan, but Mr Graus is already at the interrupting microphone. The order is thus: Mr Kuzu, Mr Graus, Mr Van Raan, Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte and Mr Laçin. Is that right? Then I will go to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK. The additional questions may not last more than half a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of people are currently making vacation plans. The Minister could also have chosen to follow the line of the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, who makes agreements with twelve popular holiday destinations. But that's not what my question is about. I have a map here, which is about the selective way in which we actually color in countries. This is the map of Cyprus. The southern part is on yellow and the northern part is on orange. Can the Minister normally explain to people in the country why the chance of going on holiday to the south of Cyprus is much greater than the chance of going on holiday to the north of Cyprus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr Kuzu is asking a bit about the familiar road, because of course he knows very well that there is a border across the island, where one part belongs to Europe and falls within the Schengen area and the other part does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u12	So it's a political choice. It's not a logical explanation. The fact that you're at great risk of contagion in the south isn't true. But if we look at the balance on the basis of which these colours are produced, Spain has 300 000 infections and 30,000 deaths, Italy has 240,000 infections and 34 000 deaths and Turkey has 200,000 infections and 5,000 deaths. Then how does that travel advice come about? Can the Minister explain this in a normal way to ordinary Dutchmen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u13	I am not talking about travel advice; that is what the Foreign Minister is doing. What I can say in general terms is that on the basis of opinions, including from the European healthcare organisation, there is ECDC for the initiates... they are giving advice on this and it is not political decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u14	Public health is above all else, including the PVV. If decisions are made not to fly, we respect that, so is Corendon. But Pegasus does 20 flights a week to Turkey, SunExpress 18, KLM 7............................................................................................................................................. Why did the Prime Minister, on behalf of the government, specifically Corendon, make sure that flights are affordable for Jan with the hat because affordable holidays were taken out of Corendon's entire goal, thrown into the dock and damaged? The Minister should not forget that it was Corendon who recently saved an airport of national interest by storing a few aircraft, namely Maastricht Aachen Airport, an airport of national interest. Who jumped in the breach? Who took the risk? Corendon. Where is a flight with beautiful hotels affordable for everyone? At Corendon's. Why are those people, who have done so much for us, being put on the dock?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u16	I fully agree with Mr Graus that all airlines are equally important. They're all just as sweet to me. Last Monday morning I had a good talk with Corendon and told them that for all airlines, whether they are Dutch or foreign, the same rules apply to orange travel advice. The fact that airlines are taking an advance by offering flights for a while, in the expectation that there might be a yellow travel advice for those countries, I leave it at their expense and risk, because I do not know that either. That decision will have to be taken very quickly, because as of 1 July, the entry ban will end in general. I can't anticipate that. The fact that in this case the attention was specifically drawn to society was, of course, because it was suggested that a test was offered by the airline, which would then provide certainty that you no longer need to quarantine. We've strongly distanced ourselves from that. That soon became clear to me when I was told from Indonesia that the colleague I met there was infected with the corona virus. Then I asked if I shouldn't be tested. I was told: "No, ma'am, that makes no sense until you have any complaints. Then you will be tested today and you will have no corona, but that may be different in a few hours." So testing only makes sense if people have complaints, but therefore certainly does not offer safety. We absolutely didn't want people to think: well, we'll do that test for a while, and if it's negative, I don't have to quarantine it. We can't do that, so we're still maintaining it very clearly for everyone. If you come from an area for which there is an orange travel advice, because you have been there for a funeral or for any necessary reason... for what is necessary, I refer to the website of Foreign Affairs.. then you really have to observe two weeks of home quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you, Mr President. We are now seeing this period coming to an end and the measures are being relaxed, absurd prices for destinations that have orange code. We see that the airlines seem not to take their own responsibility. My first question is whether the Minister is prepared to undertake an active discouragement campaign for this type of travel to this type of destination. Is it therefore prepared to carry out such a disheartening campaign as in the case of public transport here too, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u19	In my view, the main discouragement is that travel advice is orange for a large number of countries. We've checked with the Alliance of Insurers and it doesn't mean you're insured if you get a disease or anything. So it's really very risky if people think they have to do this when it's not really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u20	The second question, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u21	I guess Corendon doesn't think so, see what was said last night. Corendon said clearly at the time that it's just insured. We hear in the Minister's reply that she is not prepared to take that responsibility. The airlines do not take that responsibility either, and that brings me to my second question. We have adopted a motion that says that the perseverance for this type of epidemic, a zoonoses, should actually be with the Minister of VWS. The Minister of Infrastructure and Water State also does not take the responsibility to contain this type of travel. Is it prepared to hand over the baton to the US Secretary of State to ensure that there is no more entry or exit to those areas? So I want this power of perseverance to be actively transferred, because that is what another minister is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u22	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u23	That is not necessary at all, because we agree very well within this cabinet. At the beginning of this crisis, we also imposed flight bans on certain countries, and that can always happen again. If the VWS Minister sees that as a reason, he can send me another letter at any time and then I'm just going to implement it and translate it into a flight ban. We have done so before, and if, for reasons of public health, the VWS Minister thinks that should be done, then I shall do so. I have never fought that before and therefore I do not think it is necessary to create a separate perseverance force for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u24	If a catering company puts more than two people at a table, it gets a big fine. If I want to hug Mr. Graus on the Malieveld, I risk a fine. But airlines bring people into the Netherlands from orange areas for unnecessary reasons. If that happens, I ask the Minister, will these people get a fine? Can these airlines be fined or are they simply sent back because they are not allowed into our country for non-necessary reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr Bruins has a very good point to make. Airlines really have to take responsibility for that, and of course travel organisations have to take full responsibility for that. They shouldn't even offer those trips to countries where it's orange. We can, of course, always look at this in the context of repatriation, for example, from and to the US to take another country. There may still be people in America for a long time who might think: I'm really going back to the Netherlands. That is allowed and the reverse is allowed for transfer passengers. But the hard line remains: with an orange travel advice only necessary travel. We're still totally behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u26	Mr Paternotte and then Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u27	I do not agree with Mr Graus, but of course he is right that those 70 flights a week to Turkey are not only there for necessary travel. That's just one way of chasing vacations right now. I would like to give that to everyone, but we should not make the same mistake as in February and March when the virus was flown and drove from the ski resorts to the Netherlands. Therefore, why is it logical that people should not enter the Netherlands from Turkey, but you can go back and forth on vacation to pick up the virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u28	As long as Turkey is part of the group of countries with an orange travel advice, it is not explicitly the intention to go on holiday there. It's a big risk and it's also very antisocial when people think: I'll think of a reason, for example that I'm going for something else, even though I'm actually going on vacation. That is very antisocial and irresponsible behaviour, not only for yourself but also for Dutch society, when you come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u29	Second question, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u30	Socially, irresponsible, in a pandemic that concerns us all. The question is, of course, what are we going to do? The Minister points out the home quarantine, which is difficult to maintain. Until recently, for all countries, and still for outside Europe, Belgium demanded that you give a statement that your journey is necessary and that you can support it. Will the Minister consider whether this will also be necessary for this type of travel to orange areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u31	So far, the Dutch people have behaved responsibly. Repatriation flights can now take place from all parts of the world, including from countries with orange travel advice. I really assume that the Dutchman will show that responsible behavior in the coming period as well. I therefore think it is important to make it clear to people: an orange travel advice means only necessary travel; you take the risk that you are not insured; you simply should not do it. In this sense, I welcome Mrs Kröger's questions, which give me the opportunity to make that clear once again. And you come back from, for example, a funeral in a country like this, which is an example that everyone can really understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u33	I would like to start by pointing out to the Minister a mistake that I think she just made by saying that there is a country border in Cyprus, but I do not think the Netherlands recognizes Northern Cyprus at all and only Turkey does. That was a remark for the Minister. What I'm very curious about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u34	I've been to that border before, but you're formally right. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u35	Several colleagues have already said: you are in the cabin and there is little enforcement. Also at Schiphol Airport there is hardly any enforcement and we have seen that 1.5 meters away is not realized everywhere. Then I understand that code orange is only for necessary travel. But what I really want to ask about is the code yellow area, because there too we see that the infections are increasing. That's what we saw in Lisbon last week...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u36	And the question is, Mr. Laçin?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u37	... in Croatia and in the United Kingdom. So why are travel allowed with code yellow...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u38	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u39	...as the contagion increases? And what measures are we taking to stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u40	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u41	Our ministry is not about when a country goes from yellow to orange or vice versa. That is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs is about, who is discussing this with European colleagues on the basis of opinions from the European Health Organisation. That is what is being looked at, and I cannot imagine that a health organisation is going to recommend that a country be turned yellow if they have no confidence that that is also familiar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr. Laçin, you will have the opportunity to ask a question. It's a really short question. That goes for everyone. In each Question Time there is a problem with the long introductions. You have spent more than a minute on a question, and if it is to be extended, we need to organise another Question Time. Mr Laçin. This doesn't just apply to you, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u43	You can do some of it yourself, Mr. Chairman, occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u44	I'd rather not, but I have to say something. And that all comes from your time, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u45	Okay, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says: it is being looked at, while the infections have thus been contracted in recent weeks and there are simply flights within the Schengen area, dozens a day. We know that almost nothing happens at Schiphol. How do we know that from the code yellow area, the Schengen area, the virus has not long been taken back to the Netherlands? That is where the contaminations on paper simply increase and we do not impose restrictions on the flights that take place. When is the Minister going to direct that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u46	This minister is not directing this, because it is of course the prime responsibility of the VWS minister to see how this is developing in health. You are well aware that VWS is again based on the advice of RIVM and in particular of the Outbreak Management Team.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u47	Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u48	I think there are really wide-ranging concerns in the Chamber about how vulnerable we are when that aviation gets back on track. Actually, I hear the Minister say: that's all future music, but those flights are going now! There are already flights to Turkey, India and Brazil, to areas that have code orange and where the risk is greater. The Minister said earlier "I monitor it closely, week by week." I really want the Minister here to indicate how she keeps her finger on the wrist, what we hear as a Chamber, when intervention is taking place and in what way. I don't feel comfortable right now and the holidays are starting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u49	I hope that the average Dutchman has the same concern as Mrs Kröger, because then everyone will respect the rules that we have agreed on around 1.5 meters and so on, including the respect of the orange travel advice. How is that monitored? This is, of course, particularly happening in the European context. I am repeating myself where today's decision-making is expected on how to proceed with the entry ban. Can countries from orange to yellow, or countries that stand on yellow perhaps return to orange? If something is going on very quickly, it has been no different in recent times, and if it is necessary, we can always intervene quickly by setting a flight ban, as we did at the time for Italy, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you.
