ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Amhaouch, on behalf of the CDA, for his question to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management, whom I would also like to welcome, on possible problems at ProRail by domestic traffic controllers. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, thank you. I saw fellow Ziengs come in there with a nice glass cap. That's new in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Oh, that's new.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. "There is a serious shortage of train drivers at ProRail. If the railway manager does not find it, then there is nothing else to do but let fewer trains run." I quote the Algemeen Dagblad of 13 September 2019, exactly one year ago. Public transport is crucial for the economy, especially in times of the corona crisis, including for the vital professions. Train traffic is indispensable for many people to be able to move to work or, for example, family. This applies to people in all regions, to city and rural areas. I am therefore shocked when I read the message in which ProRail says that rail traffic may be in trouble because of home traffic controllers. I said it in my opening sentence: let's face it, the shortage of traffic controllers is not a new problem. Nevertheless, I know that more than 4,000 employees are working hard day and night. The CDA would like to know when the Secretary of State has been informed about this problem. Could this problem have been avoided by intervening earlier, in previous reports, before corona, about a shortage of traffic controllers? What actions has the Secretary of State taken previously to address this problem? 'Cause it's not new. What is it going to do to really solve this problem and to ensure that it does not prevent this from being a crossroads which means that there are no more trains?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Mr Amhaouch. I think he is right to start with thanks and recognition for the vital commitment of these people in this vital sector. Let me say that again here. Mr Amhaouch presents a problem which has indeed been on the horizon for some time and on which action has already been taken. In addition, in the context of corona, we now need to keep a close eye on the capacity utilisation situation in a number of sectors. There too, of course, it is under pressure. Since 1 June, carriers have been operating as far as possible with the optimum use of staff and equipment. It is essential to keep the Netherlands accessible and keep vital processes running. Train controllers play a crucial role in this. My letter on the scaling-up of the DV states that we, the cabinet and all the parties involved, will ensure that demand and capacity are as compatible as possible. We also take ProRail's signal about the train drivers very seriously. I can inform your Chamber of the following actions and actions to be taken. Partly because of the additional investments since 2018, to which Mr Amhaouch refers, the number of trained train drivers entering ProRail has tripled. So there has really been a very strong commitment to structural improvement of that situation. ProRail also continues to invest heavily in recruitment campaigns to attract new train drivers. In addition, ProRail is currently looking at whether it can call on recently retired train drivers stationed elsewhere and former train leaders working in another organisation of ProRail. In addition, ProRail is investigating the possibility of setting up a flexpool of train traffic controllers, which will enable the collection of cramped areas created by corona as soon as possible. I would really like to express my thanks to all those people who are working particularly hard at the moment, skip breaks and mention it to ensure that trains can continue to run. With each other we are working on strengthening as quickly as possible and keeping this vital sector in the air as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thanks to the Secretary of State. But does she also agree with the CDA that this should be the top priority for ProRail? Because this year, even in corona time, we have put EUR 1.6 billion in this. We will make 700 million available for next year for NS and other public transport. This has to be solved. This has been going on for a year. And of course this is not a call to those who already work hard and indeed skip their breaks. But in the Netherlands we have a busy rail network and we have NS. It cannot be said that we cannot drive because there are no traffic controllers. So I ask the Secretary of State again: is this the tip of the iceberg, or does she see that this is really going to be resolved in the short term and that we will not have this problem tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	There's a structural problem. This is what ProRail has been working on in a structural way since 2018 due to a strong commitment to the recruitment campaigns. And I say again: if the influx of trained train drivers triples, you can also say that there has been a real hard work and a structural solution. Can I give you a guarantee that nothing will ever happen through Corona? I very much wish I could, but that has everything to do with the extent to which we control this virus with each other. It is true that ProRail gives a huge priority to this. That is what Mr Amhaouch is right to ask for, and it is also being given real priority to have this very vital sector run together at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	We are watching, because the Netherlands cannot afford not to have this again. The Netherlands is a very developed country and we have a lot of money in the pipeline. The Chamber promotes public transport, so we must also ensure that the trains continue to run.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. Mr Van Aalst has a question on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. I find it somewhat astounding. Because how is this possible? This hasn't been a thing lately. It is also a bit short to blame this on corona. In fact, there have been more applicants in corona times than in the years before. How is it possible that the Secretary of State wasn't prepared for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. I have just told Mr Amhaouch that this is indeed a well-known problem and that it is difficult to recruit train service leaders. This job also requires a separate training and it is quite specialised work. In fact, additional recruitment campaigns have been launched since 2018. We came out of a tight labour market. If you can then prove that the number of invaders has tripled since then, then we cannot say that this problem has not been seen by ProRail, that it has not been taken into action or that it has not been seen by the Ministry. So this is really being worked on. But I agree with Mr Amhaouch and Mr Van Aalst that these people are really very crucial to the functioning of the OV system. That is why I think it is right that we should pay particular attention to it today. It is important to allow these people to do their job as well as possible, and we must also take sufficient care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	At that time, in 2018, D66 launched the plan "Thing jobs on the track." The Secretary of State responded to this last year by letter. It says, in my mind, that it is mainly up to the rail sector itself. Now the Secretary of State himself says: this indicates once again how vulnerable we are on the track when it comes to manning. Is this still a reason for the Secretary of State to check with the Cabinet whether it is necessary for the coming year to make even more effort to interest more people in a dying job on the track?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. It is quite right for D66 to quote that action plan again. This was indeed an important incentive to proceed with such an intensification of recruitment campaigns and so on. I can assure Mr Schonis that, together with ProRail, we are looking very strongly at what we can do to interest people in a job in that beautiful sector. Let me say that again here today. And so we continue these recruitment campaigns unabated. In this place and many other places there is also a real need for good people in the sector. So that's what we're betting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you.
