ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u1	Then there is the issue of VAO Telecommunications. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State and the members of the House. Let's see, do I have a list of speakers? Yes. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Also the radio is having a huge hard time in this corona time. They are not asking for money, but they are asking for an extension of the time they have the current licence. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all radio stations in possession of a national plot have provided financial data to an independent research firm, showing that the radio sector is hit relatively hard by the corona crisis due to its dependence on the sharply decreasing advertising revenues;]] [[Considering that this means that several radio stations have a substantial funding requirement that potentially determines the continuity of operations, but that the expiry of the frequency licenses as of 1 September 2022 is an obstacle to obtaining credit;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the sector, to extend the existing FM licences for commercial radio stations for a period of three years, until 1 September 2025,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Weverling, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Bruins, Mr Moorlag and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-519]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u3	I would like to express my special thanks to Mr Weverling, who has also had a great deal of work on this motion. Mr. Chairman. Now the frequencies are being extended. In the meantime, we have received the Don report, so we hope that we will discuss it with each other at a later stage. That's about auctioning or not, even for the future. Then, Chairman, I have two more questions for the Secretary of State. In general consultation we have been promised that we will receive another letter about the telephone accessibility in Overijssel, including the villages Vilsteren and Hoge Hexel. We'd like to know when we can see that letter. Furthermore, does the Secretary of State also have the impression that the ambition of fast internet is under pressure for everyone in 2023 because of the strategic market behaviour of telecom providers? On the internet, an earlier motion of mine has been passed. And is the Secretary of State prepared to explore instruments to counter this, such as a coordinating role of the ACM? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr Weverling of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on 5G. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid risks to the safety and integrity of the telecommunications network at all times;]] [[Considering that in the cabinet policy of allowing the use of equipment of entities with the potential intention of abusing or dropping the telecommunications network, a distinction is now made between the critical and non-critical components of the network;]] [[Whereas this distinction is no longer made in several countries, but such equipment is completely banned from the network;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether the latest security insights into the authorisation of such equipment in the current non-critical components of telecommunications networks are still justified and sufficient to eliminate any risks to the safety and integrity of the network as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Weverling and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-520]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u6	And another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rapid roll-out of 5G is of great importance for the future economic prosperity of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas municipalities play an important role in facilitating the roll-out of 5G, including through the forgiveness of permits and the establishment of local policies for the construction of telecommunications infrastructure;]] [[Whereas municipalities indicate that they are under pressure, partly because of the very active opposition movement which has led, among other things, to many letters of objection, motions and threats from aldermen, officials and council members, and need more national support in these tasks;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the VNG, to provide more and better national support in the roll-out of 5G, inter alia by working on a uniform antenna policy, example regulations, manuals and other practical support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-521]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. Water supply, electricity and sewers are public facilities. In the opinion of GroenLinks, fast fixed internet is also a public facility that everyone in the Netherlands is entitled to. This is not going very well with the current market forces, because there will be no addresses from fast internet. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Digital Connectivity Action Plan states that by the end of 2023 all households of the Netherlands should be able to have a fixed Internet connection of at least 100 megabits per second;]] [[noting that the Dialogic report commissioned by the Cabinet shows that in 2023 there will still be around 10,000 addresses in the Netherlands without a fast internet connection;]] [[Whereas a large proportion of these addresses are remote, making the connection unattractive to business investment;]] [[Whereas a good fixed internet connection is a basic provision;]] [[calls on the Government to examine funding possibilities for the construction of fixed internet for households in white areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet, Mr Futselaar, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-522]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am now in a general discussion on animal welfare at the same time, so I would like to say something, but I am not present at the VAO Tourism, because I will be in the committee room. Then you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u9	That's good to know. I won't keep you any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u10	But I also signed a motion for a resolution before that. That's what I did here. I have signed a motion by Mr Van den Berg on behalf of the extension. Thank you for your collegiality, Mrs Van den Berg. Like Mr Weverling and Mr Bruins, you are one of the few Members of Parliament who always have other people signed up, even if they cannot be here. That's very nice. For the sake of DAB, I have signed a motion by Mr Bruins. I was told that it had been leaked that we would table a motion for an extension, but then one newcomer was completely panicked. That's KINK. He asked for special attention to be paid to the Secretary of State, including the newcomer. In the meantime, I have understood from other experts on the subject that they have failed in the past to have certain opportunities. So that's what we're gonna hear later. I have done my duty with this and go back to the general consultation Animal welfare. I wish you a very blessed evening, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you very much. I wish you the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u12	At the AO Tourism I also sign a motion with the member Aartsen of the VVD, so I am represented there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u13	We've already been warned. Thank you very much. Oh, there's another interruption for you from Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u14	My question is: who does Mr Graus stand up for now? For the radio stations in the motion his name is under, or for KINK radio? That's not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u15	That's exactly what I'm saying. I was very clear during the general consultation. I was indeed approached by newcomers, who said: you must also take us into account. That's what I'm asking for the future. I have taken that position and given it up fairly. I have also honestly communicated with the motion I have tabled with my colleagues. I've told them all that in advance. So I'm open to that. In this respect, I have called for attention to be paid to the newcomers. The future's gonna have to tell us. That will be in a new debate. I understand afterwards, this morning, that they have also missed a chance. They can join or join other people. At least I've done my duty. I promised I'd name it. Then I'll do the same. But you were just sitting with me in general consultation Animal welfare, weren't you? How did you get here so quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u16	I'm also in the middle of a meeting at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u17	We have to get back quickly, because people have more votes than animals. So I'm going back to the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u18	But there are more of them. All right, thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to Mr Futselaar, but he is not here, so that becomes complicated. Then we will soon go to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the exchange of views on this technically rather complex dossier. You always have to ask yourself what justice is when it comes to newcomers and oldcomers. I have one motion to submit, which is about the radio stations that are ahead and are quite ready to make or have already made the switch to DAB+. That motion sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the link between FM and DAB+ is maintained in the event of an emergency extension, but at the same time DAB+ will grow in importance in the coming years, thus making "DAB only" broadcast more appropriate for certain radio stations;]] [[considers that further consultation between the commercial radio sector and the Ministry of EZK is necessary to ensure a proper weighting of the reports of the Don and KWINK Research Office committees and, on that basis, to reach a supported decision on the auction or extension of FM frequencies after 2025;]] [[Whereas it is important to seek tranquillity in the market and to work towards an early conclusion of the consultations;]] [[Calls on the Government to start consultations with the sector as soon as possible and to regularly inform the Court of its progress;]] [[Calls on the Government to take into account the importance of digitalising radio as soon as possible, including the possibility for radio stations to be able to broadcast "DAB only" as soon as possible;]] [[Finally, calls on the government to also discuss the possibility of dividing the policies for local, regional, national and "DAB only" parties, thus facilitating tailor-made work by sub-sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Weverling, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Moorlag, Mr Graus and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-523]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I have signed a number of motions, including those of Mrs Bromet. It expresses its concern about the white areas, where there is no prospect of fiber optics. I'd like to put another situation to the Secretary of State. Here in The Hague is a neighborhood where two glass fibre networks are constructed, not just one glass fibre network. One's already down and one's going over it. Shopkeepers upset. The street is turning upside down again. Customers stay away. People are affected by that. It is sometimes said that Adam Smith's invisible hand organizes everything well, but it is not an example of good order if double glass fibre networks are built in a neighborhood. Does the Secretary of State think this is desirable? Does she still want to see if we can regulate that differently? I don't care which party it's going to build, but we won't allow another developer to put new windmills between the existing windmills once there's a wind farm somewhere. So for my taste, something really needs to be done about this. I think it is being worked on, but my question is whether it can be speeded up and whether the Secretary of State would like to pay greater attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u21	An interruption for you from Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u22	That's right, very interesting. Of course, everyone should be able to build fibre, but it is also important that existing parties can replace what they already have. The question is therefore whether what you are asking for can be resolved. There is of course the normal cable of the cablers that needs to be replaced. In addition, KPN's copper network also needs to be replaced. I understand your question and I am also curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State, but you will always keep replacing me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u23	I think you should avoid getting double fiber optics, getting double coax nets, getting double gas lines, getting double power connections, and getting double developers in wind farms. That's just a form of sub-optimization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u24	Then there is an interruption by Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u25	I welcome Mr Moorlag's question. I have only been able to touch this subject with limited speaking time because of the limited time available. Does Mr Moorlag also consider it a solution to ask the Authority for Consumer & Market to look at the market power behaviour of certain telecom providers? At least there is no cooperation, but there is enormous opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u26	I do not know whether the ACM can currently exercise sufficient discipline on parties under the existing rules to prevent this. To my knowledge, that is not the case. That is why I am addressing the Secretary of State, but if it can be resolved within the existing rules, it is of course far preferred. That would also be the fastest method, but if it is not possible, this should be regulated more quickly in order to avoid this form of sub-optimisation and nuisance for citizens and shopkeepers. It's got municipalities in their stomachs, too. I think that we are doing municipalities a service if we do not open up twice a street for the construction of glass fibre networks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u27	You've finished your speech, Mr. Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u28	Well, I have another point, Mr. Chairman. I very much supported Mr Weverling's motion to speed up the roll-out of 5G. I still have a few moments to go, and I am critical of my homeland, Termunten, on the edge of the Dollard and the Grain Republic. There's not even 3G and 4G. I've already asked written questions about it. The Secretary of State does not need to go into it now, but I would like to take this opportunity to ensure that it is resolved for those white spots in the Netherlands in terms of 3G and 4G. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thank you very much. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. She can respond immediately. So I'd like to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to be here again. I have five motions and two and a half questions. The first motion is the motion by Mrs Van den Berg and others. on extending the existing FM licences for commercial radio stations for a period of three years until 1 September 2025. On 3 October, I sent a letter to the Chamber in response to a request from the existing radio stations. The SEO had carried out an investigation into this issue and concluded that that extension was not at that time a solution to the problem identified. However, the corona crisis continued and, unlike previously anticipated, has not been curbed. Where there was previously a view of recovery, that recovery now seems farther away than ever. I see a chamber motion in front of me, which is just underneath which is a large majority of the Chamber. In view of the special circumstances of the second wave in which we are now in, I would like to examine how you are shaping that temporary extension. It is important to do so, because the Chamber immediately sets a deadline to recall that the frequency decision states that existing licences are not renewed unless an extension serves the general, cultural or economic interest. I will therefore have to justify this and therefore determine what is a reasonable period of time. At the same time, I will have to charge a price for this. Of course, you must avoid a new financial problem arising from that price. It is also important to clarify the sector. That's where Mr. Weverling was standing and so was Mrs. Van den Berg. I thought: let me now put this argument to the House that there is clarity for the sector. That is why I believe that, if you prolong on the basis of the considerations contained in this motion, you should do so for at least two years and then consider what is a correct time limit, given the frequency policy and the need not to create another financial problem with the extension price. That's what research needs. Since this motion is here now, I'm going to do that investigation. With these words, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u31	The motion in part No. 519 Judgment Room. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u32	I was afraid for a moment that there were all sorts of wanderings in the explanation of the motion. I understand, therefore, that the Secretary of State accepts the intention to see if there can be a three-year extension and that she is investigating it. When does she intend to inform the Chamber? There should be no misunderstanding about these three years, because the market needs funding and that is why this research should not take too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u33	I agree with Mr Weverling. It's just not something you do for a while, because you're gonna have to back up the circumstances that the frequency decision talks about, and you're gonna have to set a price. Of the latter you might think "don't be so complicated, just take the price of the last time," but it depends on the circumstances on the market, forecasted advertising revenue for example and the duration of the license. So that really needs some time, but since this motion is just there, it is a political fact for me and I am going to extend it for at least two years, but I do think that the Chamber should give me the opportunity to give it a proper basis. Because at some point you might have to defend yourself with the judge in respect of the decision you're making. That must be well-founded, otherwise no one will benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u34	I think it would be a good thing for the proper conduct of things if you could mention a time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u35	I can't tell you that right now, because I don't have time for such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u36	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u37	I suggest I let you know as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u38	I'd say before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yeah, that should work, an estimate of how much time this takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you. Then Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u41	I would like to look forward to that research in the long term, because the sector is still looking forward to it. I understand that the Secretary of State says: if you delay the deadline, it will also affect the price. A higher price must then be demanded. I don't know if that's a possibility, but I'm asking for a few scenarios to be presented as to the price and length of the extension. The sector needs these credits. It may be that they say: in one scenario we can get bank credit more easily than in another scenario. I don't know if that's a possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u42	No, I don't know about Tuesday. Given the fact...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u43	I think that is the purpose of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u44	Yeah, I can't promise that right now. I'll let you know for next week how long I think I'll need for those two investigations, so to back up the social and economic importance and research into the price you need to determine. I'll let the Chamber know by Tuesday how long I'll need to do that. However, given that it is important for the sector to have clarity on the minimum extension, I would like to say that the minimum extension is a two-year period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mrs Van den Berg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u46	Maybe I wasn't clear enough about that. I am concerned that the Secretary of State may be able to make a combination of two years' extension with price X and three years' extension, but that would be the price Y. Can that be worked out in the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u47	I can't see that right now. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u48	Clear. Then I'll come to Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u49	I think that under pressure from a motion presented here, the Secretary of State says very quickly that there is a new political fact. I would like to know for myself, also for the position taken by GroenLinks, what this means for newcomers and what this means for radio stations that are cultural, for example the Concert station. I have no idea. I do not know what to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u50	They just called attention to newcomers. I am dealing here with a political fact, in which a fat majority of the House asks me to extend. Apparently, they have a different judgment than what was laid down in the SEO report. The consequence is that existing licence holders will retain their licence until at least 1 September 2024 and that new entrants will only then be able to participate in an auction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u51	I'm just curious as to what the Secretary of State himself thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u52	What I myself think of that was put in a letter on 3 October. From my point of view, that letter was dated October 3rd. At the same time, we ended up in a second corona wave with consequences for the finances of these channels. The SEO report took into account, from my point of view, that half of income could then disappear. The combination of the second wave, its effects on the revenue and the political fact of this majority makes me, that is also democracy, I would like to say to Mrs Bromet, in accordance with this motion. In doing so, I would suggest to the Chamber that it should give me the opportunity to do my job, so as to properly justify what this social and economic need is and to arrive at a proper fixing of the extension price.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr President, may I make one more comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u54	Well, if it's very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u55	This means that there is no room for the newcomers. That's very sad. I hope the Secretary of State will come up with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u56	Not in the FM frequencies. If you renew existing license holders, that's a fact. How do you say it neatly, Mr. Chairman? .................................................................................................................................................. Thank you, Mr Moorlag!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u57	I've already given you an opportunity, Mr. Weverling. Moreover, I saw that the AO was on 11 June, so I can imagine that this will lead to some debate, but we are not going to do it all over again. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u58	Certainly not, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u59	Pretty short, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u60	I'm not that excited about the difference between two and three years. The ruling in the Chamber is very clear. I want to know from the Secretary of State if her intention is now to extend for three years. She keeps saying "at least two years," but that's not what the motion says. The new fact that has been created is "three years."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u61	At the same time, the Chamber does not extend any licences nor does it determine the renewal price. That's the job I have to do. I would point out that I am assuming that the Chamber will allow me to do my job properly and to ensure that a decision remains in place. Given the clarity of the sector, it is, as far as I am concerned, a minimum period of two years, but I am just going to see if I can justify it enough to allow it to be longer, in accordance with the wishes of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u62	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u63	Then I have a second motion. That's the motion in part No. 520 by Mr Weverling, together with Mr Verhoeven. They are asking to investigate the latest safety insights for the non-critical components of the telecommunications networks. They ask whether they are justified and sufficient to exclude any risk to network security and integrity as far as possible. I leave this motion to the Chamber, provided that 100% security does not exist. The request in the motion is in line with the structural approach that the cabinet stands for. Developments in the threat and in technology are always seen in conjunction with each other. If necessary, this may lead to additional measures. That is also what this motion is referring to, hence my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u64	And that's Judgment Room? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u65	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's what I started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u66	Sorry. The motion in part No. 520 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u67	As I said it, I thought: Shall I do it at the end or at the beginning?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u68	It's up to you, but I missed it for a while. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u69	Please, Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 521 by Mr Weverling, in which he asked me to offer more and better national support to municipalities in the roll-out of 5G in consultation with the VNG. Behind this motion are just a lot of municipal officials, aldermen and councilmen who sometimes have their hands in their hair, given the resistance in some parts of society towards 5G. There is also a need for conspiracy thinking. At the same time, there are concerns. I see this motion as a policy support. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. We've been doing a lot of things. There is fast internet.nl everywhere, you can visit the Knowledge Platform EMV for information. I myself went into the country with Ministry officials to conduct all these talks with municipalities. It's always good to see what else is needed. In any case, I think it is important to say to people working at municipal level: please report to the VNG, because that is the level at which I always talk about this issue. If there is a need for more specific support or if there is a lack of clarity, I am very willing to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u70	The motion in part No. 521 gets judgment room. Mr Weverling is going to see if he can do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u71	I agree with the explanation, but when it is said'supporting policy', I think: yes, it is thought that the motion is already being implemented with policy support. Then why are we still filing the motion? If the motion is adopted, it is a matter of preventing local municipal officials from getting into the goddamn corner and getting themselves back into a health investigation into 5G. For example, if municipalities have problems with the roll-out of 5G, we have a problem at national level. Then there will be blind spots, and that is not the intention. Hence the information support that the Ministry should provide to all those local officials and aldermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u72	Yeah, clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u73	But as Mr Weverling himself says, you should not do that either. As an individual municipality, you should not investigate the health effects of 5G. Let us be clear about this: we have an advisory board for this. We have the Knowledge Platform EMV, which bundles all that information. I have set up a task force in which the Empire, the VNG and the municipalities work together to do all kinds of business. This motion brings that to the attention of the House once again. As someone who is active at municipal level, now sits and listens or reads about it tomorrow and thinks: how about that? At least we'll have taken another step together. This motion makes it clear to me that there are apparently still people in despair at municipal level. Then it's just good to remind them of all the information that's available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u74	Then the fourth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u75	Then I'll get to the Bromet c.s. motion. in piece No. 522, which calls on the government to examine funding possibilities for the construction of fixed internet for households in white areas. This motion I can give judgment Chamber. There's a lot left here, but I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u76	A brief motion and a brief response. The motion in part No. 522 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u77	The motion in part No. 522 gets judgment room. Then I have the Bruins motion c.s. in piece No. 523 asking me to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u78	A lot. We all heard it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u79	At least it's about DAB only. DAB is digital radio, let me keep it simple. I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u80	The motion in part No. 523: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u81	Then I have two more questions. Mrs Van den Berg asked me about the questions asked about two places in the province of Overijssel, including Vilsteren. I aim to answer these questions together with the written parliamentary questions on mobile accessibility in Termunten. I'd like to do that soon. If I can't do that, I'll answer questions in those Chambers when I can. There are deadlines for parliamentary questions, Mr President, before you ask me that question. I have another question that was raised by both Mr Moorlag and Mrs Van den Berg on the roll-out of glass fibre. Occasionally there are situations where you wonder: must it be so? At the same time, the objective set for 2023 is still at the top. The competition is fierce, but I am constantly talking about this with market players and with the ACM, I say to Mrs Van den Berg. As promised on 11 June, I will come before the end of the year with a letter on the fibre market, in which I will also explicitly take these two requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you. This will put an end to this VAO Telecommunications.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-29-tweedekamer-9.u83	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. Because we have the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy in our midst, and also the speakers for the next VAO, we will continue with that immediately. That's the VAO Tourism.
