ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u1	There is now a third deadline for the implementation of motions 35431, letter D, the Kox motion and others. on a temporary rental stop for both the social sector and the free sector and the motion 35431, letter H, the motion Kox c.s. on the implementation of the Kox c.s. motion in any way. on a temporary rental stop for both the social sector and the free sector. This third period has been granted leave by the Chamber earlier this afternoon. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Kox from behind the speaker's seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad the Minister can be back in our midst on such short notice. Mr. Chairman. Eight weeks ago, the government received the support of this Chamber for an unprecedentedly large and far-reaching package of temporary generic arrangements, designed to deal with the uncertain but probably severe socio-economic consequences of the corona crisis as well as possible. On the same day, this Chamber asked the government for an additional temporary generic crisis measure, for the large and extra vulnerable group of 3.3 million tenants, a quarter of whom, according to the Nibud, were already financially trapped before the crisis. In order to prevent an additional rent of around 400 million per year from being imposed on them on 1 July, this Chamber called on the government, by motion, to allow a temporary rent freeze for the social and free sector as an emergency measure. Mr. Chairman. The Minister dissuaded the motion, but promised to work with it if the Chamber would vote for it, as it should. Last Friday, however, after shortly before this Chamber had adopted a second motion to call for the first motion to be carried out, the Minister indicated that he was still not prepared to meet the Chamber. She's implementing her own policy, and that's it. This goes against the belief that, in the proper movement between government and parliament, motions adopted are in principle carried out. Executing motions doesn't mean that the Chamber wants to prescribe the law to the minister. For this Chamber of Review, which must approve all legislative proposals in order to be able to appear in the Official Journal, motions and commitments are an essential tool for the proper performance of our task as co-legislator and representative of the people. We must therefore cherish and strictly monitor the implementation of the commitments made and the motions adopted. That's what we do when we're in the First Chamber, and that works. The commitments made shall be complied with and motions adopted shall be carried out as they should. Mr. Chairman. Motions are not amendments. The Minister can therefore give his own interpretation of such a Chamber statement, but must act in the spirit of the ruling. Various suggestions have been made to the Minister from the Chamber, unfortunately without any result. Mr. Chairman. Now that the Minister continues to reject a temporary generic lease measure proposed by the Chamber as an emergency measure in the corona crisis, does not respond to any variants and always refers to specific tailor-made measures she has taken in the past or intends to take in the future, the Minister knowingly does not act in accordance with what is appropriate in the proper movement between government and parliament. In such a case, the Chamber cannot but condemn such action, in order to protect its own position and in the hope that the Minister will still give due consideration to its attitude towards and its relationship with this Chamber. So far, the Minister has been on a dead end. The change must be made in the interests of good traffic between government and parliament, and that can be done if the Minister so wishes. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Koffeman, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Crone, Mr Van Strien and Mr De Boer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 21 April 2020 and 9 June 2020 the Chamber called on the Government to allow, as an emergency measure, a temporary lease stop for the social sector and the free sector, due to the precarious situation in which a significant proportion of tenants already live and assuming that this situation will deteriorate rather than improve in the coming period;]] [[having regard to the Minister's statement in the Chamber debate of 2 June 2020 that a temporary rental stop can be made possible through several options (a friendly agreement with the landlords, a legal regime for the free rental sector and a ministerial arrangement for the regulated rental sector), but that the Minister who requested the temporary measure by the Chamber considers and therefore rejects "disproportionate and effective';]] [[having regard to the Minister's statement to the Chamber in her letter of 12 June last that, even after the debate with the Chamber on 2 June and the adoption of the second motion on 9 June last, she sees no possibility of going further than she indicated in the debate on the Chamber and in her previous letter of 5 June last year to the Chamber, despite the House's explicit request for it to do so;]] [[notes, therefore, that the Minister does not wish to respond to the Court's express and repeated call for a temporary rental stop in any form;]] [[expresses its disapproval of this matter;]] [[calls on the Minister to allow temporary or substantial preventive measures of a similar nature,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35431-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u3	Let's start with an organizational question. Do you speak on behalf of the SP or also on behalf of all other applicants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u4	I am speaking on behalf of all those who have signed the motion, as will soon be shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u5	May I then ask Mr Kox what the authors of this motion meant by Mr Kox's intervention, 'in order to protect her own position'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u6	We changed the text in advance. So by that we mean what it says, "protecting her own position." I thought I indicated in my brief explanatory statement that for this Chamber, which does not have the means of the amendment and the means of the initiative, commitments made and motions adopted are essential in order to be able to do our job. I speak from some experience. I'm glad we have that system of soft power as First Chamber to eventually move the government to do what this Chamber wants. Is that enough explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u7	We are not going to have the substantive debate. The question from the CDA Group to Mr Kox and the authors is: do you refer to this motion as a motion of mourning?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u8	No, this is a motion from the Chamber. This motion states in the operative part that, in the view of the proposers, the Minister is not doing what it would have to do. That's rejected. At the same time, the Minister is called upon to do what we would not reject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u9	So it's not a motion of grief. Then the follow-up question is: is it, in your opinion, a motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u10	Again, it's the motion as it is. The motion expresses this disapproval and, at the same time, hopes that the Minister will still do what this Chamber wants. I believe that since Hans van Mierlo did not make a great deal of school in parliament, there have been a lot of emotions of sadness. Van Mierlo had a view of something like: making your own personal state of mind subject to a ruling of the Chamber is a bit too much of a good thing. I think he was right about that. Van Mierlo's view was: you're a man or a woman if you don't say anything or if you give your opinion; you don't sit in between. So no motion of grief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u11	So a motion of censure. That was my second question. The answer is therefore yes, on behalf of all the applicants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u12	Sorry, our Rules of Procedure have no degree of motion. We have motions and points of order. This is a motion from the Chamber, in which the Chamber pronounces what has happened, expresses its disapproval of it and calls on the Minister to do what the Chamber wants. That's the motion, and that's what the motion is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u13	It clearly states: "expresses her disapproval." That's a motion of censure. Then the follow-up question is: when it comes to a motion of censure, what is the next step if the Minister remains in the policy as she has explained in recent weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u14	I have every confidence in this minister's good sense and good political senses. At the time this Chamber would adopt this motion, I think the Minister will consider what to do. I assume that in the end what should be done in a democracy will be done, namely that the will of the Chamber will be implemented. So I haven't moved on yet. And again, the motion is as the motion says. The honourable Member is responsible for all these qualifications. This motion condemns the fact that the Minister is not doing what the Chamber wants and expresses the hope that the Minister will do what the Chamber wants. I can't make it any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u15	The motion of censure contains a mandate for the Minister, whose policy, at least, is rejected by this section of the policy. Then it says: 'or substantial preventive measures'. Can you describe that in language that we can understand? Not a temporary rental stop, because that has so far been the position, but "significant preventive measures"; can you help the rest of the Chamber by indicating what you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u16	As I said in my speech, this Chamber does not table amendments but adopts motions. With motions we do not prescribe the law to the minister, not literally and not figuratively. With motions we indicate what we want. That's what happened. During that debate, several participants in the debate said: but ministers, perhaps do this or perhaps that. It is, of course, about reducing the burden for a large target group that may be in trouble and is already in a great deal of trouble. There are possibilities for that. A temporary rental stop is a widely supported option in this Chamber. If the Minister says she can't do that for some reason, but has another proposal, that's fine. But until now, the Minister has just said: what do you think of the policy I am already pursuing? We know and have also been approved this policy, but it is not an answer to this Chamber's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u17	Mr. Rietkerk, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u18	So, together, we look forward to not only the Minister's answer, but also whether a substantial preventive measure can be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u19	I am curious to see all the details that the Minister can give to the motion that has already been passed twice in order to do what this Chamber wants. It's become clear. This Chamber is open-minded and it would be nice if the Minister would answer that in the same way. But the first move to take after this motion is the Minister. As I said, I have every confidence in her common sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u20	I understand that this motion will be put to the vote next week. Then our spokesman on this dossier, Mr Pijlman, will also be there. I only have a couple of constitutional considerations, because I think it is special. Mr. Kox has ideals and he fights for them. That's how I know him. But there are also things that are greater than his ideals, and those are the constitutional relations between these two Chambers. If the motion of the Minister asks for measures to be taken against which a majority of the House of Representatives has opposed a motion of equal effect, it therefore asks the Minister to defy the House of Representatives, which still has the primacy of politics. That is because you want to get the best out of you, even after all the things the Minister has already done to try to meet you. If you want the best of it, you know you're bringing her into conflict with the House of Representatives. I'm not saying that to protect her. I would like to ask Mr Kox whether the continuity of relations between these two Chambers is not more important than this occasional success. Isn't this a bit of a constitutional thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u21	It is well known that I am a great fan of constitutional law and of the constitutional position of both chambers. In fact, ten years ago in this Chamber, in the other room, we had a discussion about this with the government, which was also led by Prime Minister Rutte. But his representative at the time was Secretary of State Weekers. Secretary of State Weekers said to the First Chamber: "Dear Chamber, I cannot carry out what you ask, because the House of Representatives has asked me for something else. At that time the joint group chairmen said that the Prime Minister could come here, because it cannot be the case that a ruling from one Chamber restricts the other Chamber. At that time, Secretary of State Weekers' constitutional doctrine died very quickly, and so it should be. The government has a separate relationship with both Chambers and has to relate to both Chambers. In any of the Chambers, the government can't say, but I can't do this from the other Chamber. That would be the axe at the root of our parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u22	However, there are two points on this subject. Of course, I don't want to dispute the knowledge of statesman Weekers. I understand from your answer, and I find that strange, that such a conflict can only be resolved at the level of the Prime Minister. That's one. That's new to me, but it's possible. Two. You say that we are asking the government to put legislation in place. Then you ask something that this Chamber does not, in principle, deserve? As you said at the beginning, the motion is an instrument, as is the commitment to change policy if necessary. But the motion is not, and certainly not in a controversial file like this, an instrument to ask the government to do something that they were not allowed to do by a parliament majority in the House of Representatives. Every case is different, but I do not think that is Mr Weekers' case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u23	Mr Kox has a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u24	I should like to refer to the Acts on that point. I was allowed to speak on behalf of all the group chairmen, including the chairman of the D66 group. Then we solved the problem. A minister cannot appeal in either house. The Minister has not done so either. It doesn't fit into a two-chamber system. That is not the case. So I share the concerns of the honourable Member and think that we should be extremely punctual about constitutional relations, and that is precisely what is happening here. The moment this Chamber hears "you can't want anything, because the other Chamber doesn't want it," is the end of the story. No one's after that right now. I also did not find the Remkes State Commission making proposals on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u25	Mr Backer, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u26	Finally. Then I find it strange that you asked Mr Van der Burg to do so, too, in this motion, to turn to the Minister's protection, while in fact creating a conflict here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u27	Just so we're clear, I'm protecting the Chamber. I believe, in fact, that a Chamber, based in its functionality on commitments made and adopted motions, should not agree if commitments are not met or motions are not carried out. That is not a particularly left-wing or right-wing doctrine, which is the essential position of this Chamber. I know that Mr Backer actually agrees that we need to protect that. But I also think we should protect the good relationship between the Minister and this Chamber. In other words, if this Chamber really wants something, then the Minister will have to figure out how to do it. That is not the case at the moment. That is what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u28	At any rate, I do not want to go into the content and the like today, but I simply want to put a very simple question to Mr Kox. I've only been here five years and I've never seen a motion of censure. I've seen them a lot across the street. In any case, the same operative part shall be used: it shall condemn it. But I have never actually seen another follow-up comment. Because the Minister is asked to allow temporary or substantial preventive measures of a similar nature. In other words, isn't this an oppaign to a fourth motion? I think we should try to avoid that for a while. We could avoid that by asking the Minister: would you please state immediately today whether you are prepared to take further steps on this motion? 'Cause otherwise we're gonna keep each other a little busy with subsequent motions every week. So my specific question is: what is the purpose of the addition, which I believe is quite new under state law, of a new mission after the rejection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u29	Mr Schalk must also pay close attention to the implementation of motions. I remember his zeal when he said that the Schalk motion must be carried out, with the support of this Chamber. Eventually, we've come this far. The execution of motions is always within limits. I said: the government, the minister, has its own freedom. The fact that the operative part is different from that of the House of Representatives is perhaps an additional proof that this Chamber has an independent position. It also gives this motion does not say: Minister, go away. No, this motion says: Minister, perform; act in a way that will allow this Chamber to be contented. That is the most friendly variant that we could come up with together, again, because the purpose of this process is not to table a motion every week, but to stand up for the things that a majority of this Chamber decides to find a solution. I think that's what everyone in this room is after. As I have said, I assume that the Minister will also come to that conclusion and may be able to come up with a solution in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u30	Mr Schalk, one last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u31	I understand the reasoning on the one hand. On the other hand, I supported Mr Kox's first motion; not signed, but supported it. The second one I didn't sign and I didn't support. But that is the substance of the matter that we must leave out for now. The question of principle at the moment is the following. As soon as we accept this motion, there will be a follow-up, because we are going to ask the Minister again for something that she or she does not follow up on. My question would then be: let the Minister clearly indicate whether she is going to meet this, otherwise we will have a lot of work for you and all of us next week. That's okay, by the way, because it's very interesting. But I think we should keep it purely national law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u32	The Minister will have the floor in a moment. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. Thank you, Mr. Kox. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, after her cathedral has been placed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I come when this Chamber asks for my presence, so no one ever has to thank me for that. I appreciate the attention that Mr Kox and others have on the subject, namely the tenants. I think I have shown in the letters and in the debates here that I am doing my best to address these concerns and to content the author, in the words that Mr Kox just spoke. But, and here I come to the content of the motion, I shall do so briefly, because we do not need to repeat what we have discussed before. I think there is a difference of opinion between the proposers and the intention of the motion, and the way in which I try to address the concerns that the proposers have. So that's what the debate is about all the time. I have tried to show that I have taken a number of steps, in addition to what I had already announced in the House of Representatives, because I am also concerned about the position of the tenants. We started with an apple to the landlords and now we are at the hotline for tenants and the announcement of what might follow in August and September. That's not nothing. So I take the call very seriously. I would like to stress this again here today. The tenants who really got into trouble as a result of corona have been helped with real measures. The inventory at Aedes, for example, with the housing corporations, shows that they really help those tenants, for example by offering their rent reduction or giving them a delay. The people who really get into trouble are really helped by the constant attention to this problem, including this Chamber. But if the question is whether I can now go even further than all the measures I have listed, then I say: no, that is very difficult now. I have said, of course, that because of the poor economic prospects we have now, I want to keep a close eye on the position of the tenants. In August, September, when I come to a decision with colleagues in the cabinet on the purchasing power of people, it is also about the position of the tenants. I think it is important to have that space and not to exclude instruments to help them as best they can. That is the approach taken by the cabinet. That, I think, has gone a long way to try to content the authors of this motion. From the new motion that has been tabled, I would point out that this is not yet the case for those who have signed this motion. I regret that. I'm sorry to hear that. But that is without prejudice to my continuing commitment to the tenants. If the question is, Mr Schalk has just asked a question about what I can do and whether there are substantial preventive measures of a similar nature for this, then I think it is right to refer again to what I have announced earlier, namely: look at the interests of the tenants in August, when we look at all the Dutch, and do not exclude an instrument. I repeat that here. So it's a step-by-step approach to seeing how we help tenants now when they're in financial trouble, the people who lost their jobs, thezzp'ers, the flex workers. But indeed, we must keep thinking further and further. That is what the cabinet does in terms of the whole approach, the generic approach to income support. That's what I do when it comes to the tenants. Mr President, in order not to repeat myself, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u34	Thank you, Minister. Is there a need for a fourth term? That is not the case. Mr Van der Burg wishes to speak in fourth term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u35	No, I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u36	A point of order is, of course, also possible. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u37	Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the fact that the motion will be put to the vote next week, we shall take that as a starting point, at least the VVD Group will ask the President to proceed with a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u39	I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-11.u40	I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 7:30.
