ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u1	The next item is the debate on the adoption of the Convention between the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Government of the United States of America on the establishment of a framework for cooperation in defence matters, established in Washington on 2 July 2018. The Minister of Defence is very welcome to this debate. There are four members on the side of the Chamber who have indicated their wish to speak. There are five Members present, but four Members have requested speaking time, at least on my list. There were five, but by now that list has become obsolete. There are four members who are actually going to speak. Now you're all up to speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u2	First of all, Mrs Karabulut will speak on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the framework treaty on defence cooperation between the United States and the Netherlands. It is very common that when countries work together, agreements are made. On this treaty, I have two main questions. Why is this treaty necessary and what is in it for the Netherlands? The second question is: what exactly do we agree on; transparency? The Minister writes that the ongoing cooperation is normally arranged through memoranda, non-binding agreements. It's been going on for years. But in 2018, during a visit by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence to US President Trump, a deal was made and a treaty on enhanced military and operational partnership was signed. That's basically about everything, from sharing information to operations and purchasing weapons. In response to our first question in the written questions to the Government, namely why this treaty is now needed, the Minister writes: "The United States has expressed its wish to lay down the main standard provisions in the field of defence cooperation in a legally binding framework convention, including provisions on liability, exchange and protection of information, loan of equipment, logistical support and exchange of personnel. That is why the Netherlands and the US have concluded the framework treaty." How am I supposed to interpret this? Is it true that the United States has wished for this and that what is good for them is good for us? If it isn't, why is it? And what was the reason for the treaty? It is also special, because we belong to a select group of countries with which this treaty is concluded: next to Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom, the first non-Angelsaxian country. What kind of treaty is it, if this is such a special treaty? I'm very curious. Has the Minister offered himself or was it indeed a request? If that request was made, did the Minister himself have a wish list that she has placed with the Americans? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The question arises as to what is going on with NATO. Normally, many agreements between allies on defence have been worked out in NATO. Does this also refer to political problems in NATO? Is this a leading group within NATO? Why are other countries asked or not asked? Or perhaps NATO is failing in the legal sense? I would also like to comment on this. That brings me to the second point: what exactly do we agree on? The framework treaty is intended to be invoked in future bilateral MoUs, Memoranda of Understanding, for defence cooperation. The Framework Convention will be relevant to the implementation and implementation of these agreements as an underlying general condition. What topics are envisaged for new closure of Memoranda or understanding with the US? The explanatory documents state that a number of agreements mentioned in the preamble to the Convention are public, but some are not. How does this relate to each other? Which agreements are not public, and why not? A very important question for me to be able to control, of course, is: what is that then? It reminded me directly of the long-term debate on nuclear weapons policy, in which we actually delegated some control over personnel and territory to the Americans. It is about exercises, transport, management, maintenance and the deployment of nuclear weapons. On the subject of nuclear weapons, this remains a secret. In 2016, a motion of D66 was adopted and the SP was also joined by the CDA who requested access to the bilateral treaties between the United States and the Netherlands. Does this subject belong here, too? The reaction of the government or it was going to carry out that motion was: the Americans do not want it. I would therefore like to know whether this is part of this and what the secret parts of this treaty are. Mr. Chairman. About the intelligence services, the discussion on their proper performance of their duties reported: "The AIVD and the STIVD cooperate bilaterally and multilaterally with foreign intelligence and security services." It is not possible, in the event of further questions, to discuss in public the nature and content of these partnerships. Questions about developments described in the serious, international press and books are not mentioned. We're being kept in the dark. How am I supposed to see this treaty in that light? How are we, as a parliament, informed about all these issues? Mr. Chairman. Given the confidential nature of a large number of MoU's, these documents are shared with us as Chambers. Which ones are confidential and which ones are not? For me, of course, it is about content. The Council of State has noted that the Memoranda of Understanding are legally binding and should be regarded as treaties on the basis of the international law that should apply there. The Minister stated that it was provided for in the explanatory memorandum by means of a number of comments. But I do not think that is sufficiently clear. When this framework treaty forms a basis for a future agreement with the US, the cabinet says: we are not going to submit it to the Chamber by default. Because of the legally binding framework, I think that should be done. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is it prepared to submit those agreements, memoirs or understanding, to the Chamber by default when this Convention is invoked as a basis? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u4	Thank you. Thank you for using a little less speaking time than you had given up. I call Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD. Let's get the speaker chair up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u5	Thank you, so I can at least read my text. Mr. Chairman. One of the important parts of that treaty states that it is about good relations with the United States. And that's important. It's a good ally that we've been working well with for years. This cooperation is often recorded in the Memoranda of Understanding, the MoUs. It is good that we establish this cooperation. Only, and that brings me to the same question as Mr Karabulut, how many of those MoUs do we actually have? And how many of them are confidential? What numbers do we have of that? Could we hear that? 'Cause that's interesting to me. If there's a lot of them, are there 100, 20 or 10? And how many are confidential? First of all, I find it interesting to know that as a basis. Then perhaps we should think again about whether we want to know the content as well. The framework contract regulates the legal framework. That is wise, because many of these agreements are simply centralised. Then you can say, "The window contract will fix that." Then my question is: does this make it easier to make MoUs that don't have to go to the Chamber anymore, because the legal part is out? If there is a legally binding part in a MoU, it is basically a treaty and should come to the Chamber. Is this a matter of taking out all the legal obligations and making them into a framework contract, so that we can carry out unlimited business? That is actually almost the same question as Mr Karabulut asked. What happens and how can we arrange that? That's my final question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u6	Thank you. You said "window contract" three times, but it's a framework agreement. No problem. We understood what you were talking about. Mr Krol is the next speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The members of 50PLUS have good relations with the United States. This applies to our cooperation in the field of trade, but certainly also to our military cooperation. We see this framework agreement as a confirmation of our historical ties with the United States, in which we strengthen our relationship with our liberators. It is an honour that this framework is mutual and that it establishes mutual assistance. We see this as a milestone, a moment when we feel the happiness and blessings of our liberation again in 1945. In parts of the country it is already there, and in May of this year we celebrate 75 years of liberation throughout the country. A lot of people in my constituency know what it's like to be occupied. I received a remarkable number of e-mails from them. I also had to think about our Chamber of Acts here in this building. He testifies to that every day. Sometimes I take a group of new 50PLUS members to the Chamber of Acts and I show them that empty shelf. I am very sorry that there has recently been an explanation card, because normally I always ask the visitors: does anyone know what that empty shelf symbol stands for? When the card wasn't there, only a few knew that the plank symbolises the period '40-'45. That's when Parliament didn't meet. No reports were made. We were occupied, and the government was in exile. Mr. Chairman. When I compare that to this room, I think: sometimes it seems like war here, as if we are each other's enemies and as if we are engaged in a fierce battle. It is good to remember that we are all here for the common good. Members of parliament have promised to do what is right for the Dutch. There are differences, but the tone is not always my tone. That we do so is enshrined in the Constitution. Maintaining military relations to ensure the safety of the Dutch is part of this. My group therefore wholeheartedly supports the establishment of this framework. We express the hope that the time in which we live will continue in peace. That is why it is necessary to be prepared for everything. We still have a question about the other countries in the Kingdom. Some colleagues have already asked questions about this, in particular about the hesitation of the countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. That question also lives with the 50PLUS fraction. The Minister replied last November that these countries were still under consideration. Can the Minister indicate whether this is still the case and what might prevent them from doing so? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u8	Thank you. Finally, Mr Markuszower has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal of state law that we are discussing today looks forward to the adoption of the treaty concluded in Washington on 2 July 2018 between the Government of our Kingdom and the Government of the United States of America on the establishment of a framework for cooperation in defence matters. It's a nice place. The United States is one of the strategic defence partners of the Netherlands. For many years there has been intensive cooperation in the fields of operations, the purchase and maintenance of equipment, research and development, training and training, and exercises. This framework achieves four objectives. The framework emphasises the good relations between the Netherlands and the United States in the defence field. The framework strengthens the defence partnership. The framework complements the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Defence, which was concluded in 1950. Finally, the framework provides a legal framework for simplifying and accelerating the development of defence cooperation activities, according to the summary. The PVV Group welcomes bilateral agreements with the United States. The United States is the largest democracy in the world and its country of the free and the home of the good. America has liberated the Netherlands. Thanks to America, we now live in freedom, prosperity and prosperity. America proved not only to be a loyal ally in the past, but also in 2020 the Netherlands enjoys security through the security umbrella that spreads America above us. The fight that the United States is fighting against terrorism, among other things, is also our fight. As the widest pillar of the NATO alliance, America guarantees the defence of our territory. As far as we are concerned, this treaty emphasises the good links that the Netherlands maintains with this great country and underlines the importance for the Netherlands to strengthen these links even more. The PVV can therefore support this treaty, but is curious to hear the Minister's answers to the questions already asked by Mrs Karabulut, Mr Krol and Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u10	A fine speech from Mr. Markuszower. He says thank you to the Americans, they are an ally in the fight against terrorism. But if America asks for support in the fight against terrorism in Afghanistan, what does the PVV say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u11	The PVV says that we've already participated a lot. The PVV says that, above all, we should not focus on unpredicted missions abroad, but above all we should guard our own borders and stop the misery that comes from it at our borders. That is why we need the army in particular right now. We have contributed a great deal in the past. It's just as good now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u12	Suddenly the whole story revolves around: America was really an important ally and an important partner, we have respect for America, which deserves our support. Until it becomes concrete, because then the PVV withdraws. What kind of story is this? If we have to fight terrorism, why do we not support the Americans in Iraq and Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u13	Again, the Netherlands has already contributed a lot. The Netherlands currently has its own problems. It must solve the army here, for example by closing the borders and guarding the borders. We also have large deficits in the Defense Department, making missions very difficult to implement. If you don't have enough weapons or not enough ammunition, and if you're constantly cutting back, it's a tough story to go on really expensive missions. But apart from that, America has bet on America first. That's good for America. It's to be commended that Trump stands up for his people. We must have a government that stands up for our people. It is now in our interest that the Dutch army be deployed here in the Netherlands to guard the Dutch borders and stop the misery that is also coming here from Afghanistan at our borders. We've got our hands full with that. We don't have any missions right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u14	Finalizing, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u15	Apparently it suddenly comes down to: do we have enough stuff in the Netherlands? Mr. Markuszower says we've done a lot already. But that's not thanks to the PVV. Where was the PVV when we did do things? Then there was also no support from the PVV to do things. Then the PVV was in the back of the benches screaming no. That's a fact, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u16	The fact is that the PVV is consistent and chooses the interests of its own country. The army is for the defence of our own borders. We must not solve the problems of the whole world. We must solve the problems of the Netherlands. Despite the good friendship with America, you don't always have to nod yes. Friends can sometimes say no to each other. Even then, you can still be a very good friend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u17	Let's talk about the content of the treaty. Would the PVV Group also like to see openness in the restricted parts of this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u18	Actually, I don't see any objection. Transparency can never be difficult, provided that state security is not at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u19	Sure. Otherwise, it's weird, because we wouldn't know what we're gonna agree to. Apart from your words of praise for the relationship and your appreciation of the United States, I welcome the support of the PVV, Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u20	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u21	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of a treaty with a very long title between the Netherlands and America in the field of defence. The Secretary of Defense is ready to respond. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Members of your Chamber for their first-term questions. As a number of Members of your Chamber have said, I am pleased that the time has now come for us to deal with this act of approval of the framework agreement with the United States. Because some time has passed since the treaty was signed. This happened on 2 July 2018, as Mrs Karabulut and a number of other members of the Chamber also said, during a visit by the Prime Minister and Minister Kaag, and not from me to Washington. The treaty was signed by our ambassador in the presence of the Prime Minister and the Minister for BHOS. I would like to explain the treaty. In my general story I come back to most of the questions. Then I will explain a number of specific questions, of course in the hope that the Treaty will be adopted and that it will enter into force soon. After all, it's been a while. It is good that members of your Chamber have indicated the good cooperation relationship with the Americans. In the context of 75 years of liberation, Mr Krol also indicated how important it is today. That's right. The United States is one of the most important strategic partners in the Netherlands, including defence cooperation. We work incredibly closely together on all kinds of equipment, development projects, acquisition and use, for example when purchasing the F-35 and flying training for Dutch kites in the US. We are also working together on the modernisation of the Chinook helicopter, on the entire Apache combat helicopter re-engineering, on the acquisition of unmanned aircraft, on the extension of the Patriot system's lifespan, on the replacement of torpedoes and on the purchase of air defence missiles for the Navy. We also do a lot of work together with the Americans, for decades. The room knows that. We are working not only bilaterally with them, but of course also within NATO and with other coalitions. For example, we have long been partners in all kinds of military missions, in the Middle East and Afghanistan. Of course, we also work closely together in the Caribbean to combat drug trafficking. Furthermore, in the interests of European security, the United States is, of course, a military presence in Europe, including in the Netherlands, as the members of the Chamber have rightly pointed out. In Eygelshoven, the Americans have their Army Prepositioned Stocks. For exercises in Europe, the Netherlands is therefore also an important gateway to American material. For all these forms of cooperation I outline them a little bit more broadly, because the members of the Chamber have also asked for this.It is important to make good agreements so that you know what you have to do with each other and also know what to expect from each other. Such agreements are usually of a technical and administrative nature. Its recording is very often done in a memorandum or understanding, as has been said. We are now working together in many areas. That's why I just outlined it a little bit wider, just to have mentioned a number of topics. We also work very intensively bilaterally with the US. That's why we wanted to make making appointments in MoU's a little easier, by centralising those basic agreements. The United States wished to lay down the most important standard provisions for defence cooperation in a legally binding form. That was the wish of the United States. Mrs Karabulut asked for that. The Netherlands proposed to establish these agreements in the form of a framework treaty. So it was the desire of the United States to lay down the legal side. Then we said: let us make such a framework treaty. That Dutch proposal was in line with the American wish. The agreements can make future concrete cooperation easier and more transparent. This concerns the general provisions, for example on liability. A number of Members have mentioned this. In addition, it concerns exchange and protection of information, loan of material, logistical support and exchange of personnel. Mr. Chairman. So to speak, so to speak. After long negotiations, the Framework Convention was finally signed on 2 July 2018. Now we have the approval bill ahead of us. I would like to stress that the framework treaty only applies if it is explicitly invoked in future MoUs for defence cooperation between the Netherlands and the US. In view of the content and objectives of the Convention, this Convention will in principle be invoked in all MoUs still to be concluded. That's the idea. In exceptional cases, the Netherlands and the US could decide not to invoke the Convention for certain cooperation activities, but that depends very much on the activity. In principle, this framework treaty is intended to stand and be invoked. That has really different advantages. Fortunately, that was also mentioned. First of all, this will make it easier to make appointments in MoUs in the future, as I have just said. That is what Mr Bosman asked: how do I look at that? We can refer in a new MoU to the framework treaty. It then contains the most important general provisions. This will enable us to focus on specific provisions on the practical cooperation for which the MoU is ultimately concluded when negotiating the MoUs. So that makes it easier. Then there is the second point. The framework treaty is legally binding, unlike a MoU, which is not. In addition, it is unambiguous for everything. The fact that the framework conditions for cooperation are clearly laid down in a treaty provides more certainty in the end, because we are now also discussing it with each other and more clarity for both sides. So if we continue to apply the same binding basic conditions in future cooperation, then we know better what good we have for each other. Thirdly, the framework treaty is public. You've all been able to read it. This will allow the framework agreement to make future cooperation more transparent. If, in general, we say something in a MoU that we have closed, you will know what matters it is based on. For that we can refer to this framework treaty. In the interests of greater transparency, it is important that you know who we are working with in detail about international cooperation, including cooperation with the United States. This is in most cases through the Defence Material Process, the Defence Project Overview, the annual reports and annual reports, and, when it comes to missions, in the Article 100 procedures. This also informs you about the important policy changes and new collaborations, for which MoUs are in many cases closed. Last month I sent a letter of inquiry with the Reporting International Military Cooperation 2019 to your Chamber. There are several MoU's mentioned about collaborations. This way you will be kept informed of the important MoUs we close with other countries. For example, you have read that we are working on extending the MoU with the US on sharing information from space, so that classified information can also be shared from space. We will soon be able to use part of this framework agreement for this purpose. Mr. Chairman. As you will understand, detailed agreements in such MoUs are in principle confidential. Mrs Karabulut asked a question about this. Mr Bosman also asked for this. This could include, for example, commercial confidential business or personnel confidential information, but also information, as indeed indicated by the PVV, which is at stake in terms of security, when it comes to state security. Then it is classified as state secret and will not be shared. Due to confidentiality and classification, we cannot in principle share the MoUs with you. We have also explained this in the report. The framework treaty is public and shared. We'll share the type of arrangements we make. Normally we share that on main lines when we close a MoU. The framework treaty is public and has now been shared with you, so if we tell you in broad terms what cooperation agreements have been reached, we can refer to the issues contained in the framework treaty. This means that the standard provisions that we can apply are always public. So you will see more than in the past. Conditions that would otherwise be laid down in such a confidential MoU are already in the public treaty to which we can refer. Mr. Chairman. I would like to point out that this is important to say that the Netherlands is indeed joining a select group of countries with which the United States cooperates. Such a framework agreement has been concluded with few countries. Mrs Karabulut has listed them: the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia and, by the way, New Zealand. The Netherlands is joining us now. This means that we see each other as important partners. That is important to establish here in the Chamber today. I will answer a few more specific questions, but in summary, it makes concrete future cooperation with the US easier and more transparent. The framework treaty also provides a solid foundation for long-term defence cooperation. It's important to look at this, I'm looking forward to seeing if it makes our work in the context of MoU's et cetera really easier. That in a general sense. I have received a few more questions that need additional answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u23	I think Mrs Karabulut would like to discuss the relationship with the MoUs. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u24	I have two points. The first is more general. The Minister has explained why the US wants this. This is mainly about the legal aspects. Can the Minister explain that further? As she herself said, this used to be based on the MoUs, which was also fine, but now the Americans have asked for it. Is that because the cooperation is so intense that the Americans want more certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u25	The Americans wanted us to lay down the legal aspects more generally for all the MoUs we would close. At that time, we suggested that we turn it into a framework treaty in which the rules of the game are without content. Those rules of the game, without the content, then apply to all MoUs we're about to close. Those MoUs are very different. Mr Bosman and Mrs Karabulut have also asked how many are closed each year. That's about a dozen of them, bilaterally with the Americans. That could be anything. That could be about the Americans participating in the Frisian Flag exercise, for which we need to record a number of things when we fly with each other. It may also be about an individual who comes to work somewhere or about a contract or other bilateral cooperation. So they're very different and that's why it's good that we get that window side, that legal side, and that's why it's always the same for all those MoUs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u26	The difference is that when this framework treaty is invoked for the MoUs, it also has a legal significance. Hence my question to the Minister whether, when this framework treaty is invoked for the MoUs, she would like to submit it to the Chamber by default.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u27	I have indicated that in principle we do not share the MoUs with the Chamber. That's never really been the use. What you're about to get is more. We normally share on main lines what a MoU is closed about. These are, in part, international policy agreements that we make with each other. I have also mentioned a number of other examples. They are of a very technical and administrative nature as far as the authorities of the country are concerned. So what we are actually doing is making agreements within the policy frameworks you set out. You will then be briefed by us on the main points. Now we can even refer to the legal frameworks contained in the framework treaty, which you would not otherwise have. So if we are going to outline what is in such a MoU, then we can also refer to the Treaty, because it has made it transparent what the legal frameworks that are used. So the rules of the game are set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u28	If that legal framework is so transparent, then I shall come to parts which are certainly not transparent, and in the MoUs, as the Minister states, only practical matters are dealt with which, however, have legal significance because of the framework treaty, then that is all the more reason to share this with the Chamber in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u29	I have indicated to you how we share this in an appropriate way. We are doing this in general terms and we are referring to what has been agreed in this treaty. I have indicated to you why they are in principle confidential, namely because they may concern individuals, commercial confidential matters or state security. That's how it is. They are very different, but you actually have as a basis a transparent framework treaty which lays down the rules for the conclusion of those MoUs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u30	The matter of the framework agreement is clear. My question was mainly about the relationship. We have a lot of MoUs, I understand. How many of them are actually confidential so that they really cannot be shared and how many of them are public? That is what we are discussing. If such a MoU is public, it can just be made public and we can just read it. So it wouldn't be a problem, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u31	No, but I can't tell you exactly. I have indicated that about ten are closed a year. We just took a look at that. It's about people all the time. That cannot then be made public. Think of an individual placement. Sometimes there are MoUs in the area of state security. So that is not so clear. But your point is clear; if we can say anything about it, we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u32	But I think we already have a lot of MoUs with the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u33	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u34	So I imagine we'll just get an indication: how many of those MoUs do we have with the United States now? There aren't ten of them, because they've already arrived this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u35	There are indeed about ten a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u36	Yes. And we've been working together for a long time, so it could just be 100 or 150. Maybe we can get that back sometime, maybe in a letter. Then we can see how many are confidential and how many are actually public. At least that would give me an indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u37	I'd be happy to take a look at that. I can't tell you that right now. We haven't looked at it now either. But I would like to take a look at that so that we can report in some report, as I said, or, for example, in the annual report, on how much and what was or was not confidential. Then you have an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u38	It sounds good, but it's basically part of a legal process right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u39	I can also ask if we can say a little more about it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u40	If at least that can give an indication, that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u41	I'm sure you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u42	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u43	I was just getting to the point that there were about ten of them a year, so I suppose that has been answered enough. And so they are very different in nature and character. Then it's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u44	There is one more question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u45	Yeah, just to make sense of it. The Minister states that these memorandums of understanding deal with a number of matters relating to persons. Well, I get that. Maybe we don't need to hear the people, but we can hear: this is one that concerns a person. But I did not hear the Minister say clearly that if it is not confidential, then she will always make it public and we will always get a message from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u46	I said, in principle, we always share what is agreed in a MoU. We always share that. So you always get to hear that on the main lines. So that's what we do. We do not share the MoUs in principle, because that concerns our relationship with the Americans. It is almost always a matter of detail with confidential aspects, but I have just promised Mr Bosman that we will see in what proportion that is. I can't report that right now. I hope that will be possible in the second term. If I can't, I can always report it in a letter. Mr Bosman is right: it is a matter of law in this case. That's what I can say about it now. But you will always be informed. It's not like you won't be informed. In fact, you are now getting more, as I said in the general story, because we will also inform you about the agreement. Then we can refer to this framework treaty, in which we have relied on a number of issues, which are then settled in general. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u47	I was laughing a little. The Minister actually states: "I'm actually giving you a lot more. And when I agree on something else, I refer again to the generalities." But there's a kind of crazy run in there, because those generalities are so common that they don't actually give us any indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u48	No, those are rules of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u49	That's why I laughed. But I hope the Minister understands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u50	I understood it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u51	I hope the Minister understands that we prefer that. I'm glad we know that. Times have changed, too. There is also a lot happening in the world, and especially in the relationship with the United States. It is therefore particularly important that we not only receive a reference from you: I refer you again to those generalities where nothing is in them. But we just need to get more information actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u52	Sure. No, but I said: we say something substantive, and then we can refer to this framework treaty for the frameworks and the rules of the game. That's what I said, so I would have picked up that point in a minute. Then I come back to the announcement that this is a bilateral relationship. Mrs Karabulut also asked: how does this relate to NATO? Basically, it's unrelated to that. Of course, we work much more bilaterally with countries; look at the cooperation we have with the Belgians and the Germans. We always inform your room about that. This is about bilateral cooperation. Mrs Karabulut also asked: do we always do what the US wants? Well, no, but we are working very consciously with the United States, because that is our main partner in the field of security and defence. We also continue to work closely with the United States, both bilaterally and multilaterally, in NATO or in other specific alliances. The framework treaty we now have is an important step towards strengthening bilateral cooperation and partnership with both the United States and NATO. It also applies to ad hoc coalitions. It's crucial for the Netherlands. I liked that that was referred to in your Chamber, but it's also crucial for the US. It's important over and over again. We continue to emphasise this in the contacts we have with the United States. So it is not in the NATO framework, as I say in the direction of Mrs Karabulut, as far as bilateral cooperation is concerned. That's what this is about tonight. If it is in the NATO context, we will of course also report to you through the appropriate channels on how we work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u53	That wish, that request, came from the Americans. That's still true. I wonder if the Minister himself had any requests, for example on disclosure and the possibility of sharing information, for example on nuclear weapons. The Chamber has been asking for this for years. Did the Minister ask you to do that? Is that part of this bilateral relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u54	The answer to that is: no, that is not the case. We shall have a debate on nuclear weapons tomorrow, a general discussion. We still had a wish, and that was the wish I also explained to you in order to lay it down in a framework treaty, so that it was more broadly regulated, so that all those points were settled. That is the wish expressed by the Dutch cabinet. The wish mentioned by Mrs Karabulut has not been brought in. We have limited ourselves to cooperation and what it must mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u55	Why didn't the Minister do that? If you are so special and have such a good relationship, which is confirmed by a framework agreement, which makes you join a select company, which President Trump has special attention for, why didn't the minister ask that simple question? We have a right to that answer, to control matters and for the safety of all Dutch people. I am thinking of information about nuclear weapons, of access to them, of transparency, so that we can monitor and assess security. Why didn't the Minister ask for that? Is she prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u56	This treaty is really about other things. It is about rules of the game that we need in the context of bilateral cooperation. We felt that it would be better to lay down that legal aspect in a framework agreement. That's what we've been focusing on, and that's what's right here. That's all there is, I think, to say about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u57	Rounding; no repetition of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u58	Finally. The preamble mentions a number of agreements which form part of this Convention. Some of them are not public. Why not? Is the Minister prepared to share this information with us so that we can make a full assessment of this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u59	Your Chamber can simply judge the treaty as it stands. This Treaty lays down a set of rules of the game. That's what you've been given. They are important in order to achieve this bilateral cooperation. That's what's in store, and that's all. We're going to use those rules when making MoUs and other things, so we've arranged a number of things by default. So these are rules of the game without content. That seemed easier to us, too. Mr. Chairman. I think that the question about the MoUs has been sufficiently raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u60	And NATO has also discussed you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u61	I also discussed NATO. Then, in my view, there is only Mr Krol's question about the hesitations of the government in Curaçao and the other governments in the Caribbean islands that belong to the Kingdom. It's a state law that runs here. The governments have simply been asked whether they wish to take part in the framework treaty for their country. The governments have considered whether they are still considering this, because they have not yet expressed their opinion on the desirability of co-determination. So I can't give you the answer. As you know, they must give it to themselves. But they haven't decided yet. That is what I can say. I think that answers all the individual questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u62	I'm actually wondering this. If those memorabilia or understanding are confidential or secret, who is actually checking what you've agreed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u63	You always control what we do in the end. We will inform you in broad terms about the agreements that have been made. You can ask questions about that. I will see if we can answer Mr Bosman's question in the second term. In these dozens of MoUs it is sometimes about the stationing of Dutch soldiers as liaison officer. It's just about things that a department needs to be able to take care of. It's about co-operation with the Caribbean Coast Guard. That is what we report on in the Coast Guard's annual report. It is about participation in operations and exercises, such as at Frisian Flag of the Air Force. Then we will report in our reports on what is happening there and you will be able to ask substantive questions about it. It's about the use of Eygelshoven. You can also ask questions about this. What you now have is a framework treaty, of which you know what is legally substantiated. About the content we always report to you on main lines. Of course, you can also ask questions about this. We'll answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u64	I understand there are two forms. You say it's practical and it's about names. But you also indicate that there may be things that are confidential, but of a different nature than they are individuals. You say we can ask questions about that. But the point is, I can't ask questions about things I don't know. That is why I asked you who checks what you have agreed, for example on secret missions, if Parliament or the committee with the group chairmen is not informed about what you are meeting. No one can ask questions. I can therefore imagine that either the group chairmen will do it, or the CITVD will do it, or we will be able to see it confidentially, so that we can ask questions if we think that something is very strange. Could you perhaps tell us again separately how we can organise control over these confidential things?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u65	For some secret matters, such as those relating to the services, I have already said something about this in general terms in answer to a question called 'CIVD'. That's what the CTIVD's for. When it comes to covert operations, it is reported in that sense. Questions can also be asked about this, because they are informed about it. There is nothing you can do with it in public, but there is a formal possibility. When it comes to what we outline about the various MoUs, it can be anything. In the preparation we asked whether MoU's were ever shared with the Chamber. That's an interesting question, too. Mr Bosman's question on numbers and proportions was also interesting. We found one. That was the one about the F-35 from 2014. Because that was a very big debate, it was shared with the Chamber. Therefore, other weighings can indeed be made, but in principle we use the line I have explained. But you can always ask questions, because we will always give you the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u66	Mrs Karabulut, please ask a new question. Otherwise, you'll have to do it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u67	Yes, Mr. Chairman, and with your permission, I'm going to ask you when I won't get an answer. In response to a press release, we discovered that this agreement would come about. We did it together with the colleagues. We have asked for an explanation and a more detailed explanation. A statement of reasons has been made. But still large parts are confidential and secret. However, I am trying to clarify why a number of subjects, as mentioned in the preamble, are not public and how we, as Members of the European Parliament, can be informed about them. I do not think I need to tell this minister about the importance of maintaining and guarding our sovereignty. When the moment comes, perhaps it will not come. Like Mrs Belhaj, Mr Bosman and others, I want to be able to retain control and say when things are not going well. We can only highlight the positive aspects...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u68	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u69	... but there are also a lot of topics that I think: well, I would have liked to. In any case, I want to know about this and I want to be able to have the debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u70	Sure. I have indicated to you what can and cannot be shared and what the arguments are. Commercial: confidential. Staff: confidential. Also matters relating to security and state security cannot be shared with your Chamber. But there are indeed gremia in which questions can be asked about parts. In the case of new substantive issues to be closed, you will be informed in broad terms of what the content is. Then you can always ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u71	My specific question was as follows. A number of agreements are mentioned, I think about eight, six of which are public and two are not. Maybe there are more, but at least this is what I've been able to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u72	I'll take a look at it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u73	The Minister keeps saying here that things are getting much better and that we are getting more information and so on. The MoUs don't want to share them yet. Nor can I judge all the information relating to this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u74	You have to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u75	So the question is: can all parts, all cooperation agreements, be made public? Can we at least get that information from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u76	I'll take a look at it in a minute. I have given my answer to the points as they were, namely when something needs to be shared and not shared. The points I have already mentioned just stand. I don't really have anything to add to that. I have also indicated that we are always saying something about MoUs in the direction of your Chamber. But it's just the government's job to conclude non-binding agreements. In the end, we can look at how we judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u77	I would like to join those non-binding agreements. In principle, the Americans would like to make legally binding agreements. If we hadn't had this framework treaty, every MoU that we would sign would have been a treaty. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u78	Depends on what's in it. That depends very much on what is agreed in such a MoU.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u79	No, but if there is a legal obligation, if I understand the Council of State correctly, it is basically a treaty. And then it has to be submitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u80	The government is looking at this a little differently than the Council of State, as you have seen. But then we'll have to take a good look at what's being agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u81	But my question was: has it now been an escape from the cabinet to put all the legally binding and binding features in the framework treaty, so that the hand is free for every MoU I wish to sign?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u82	The answer to that is no. It is true that we are giving more transparency by indicating to you what we agree on legally binding matters in these areas. It's by no means an escape. We are giving you more transparency by agreeing on these general rules of the game in this Treaty. We will then tell you what we are closing a MoU about and what we then apply the rules of the game, but it is by no means a bypass of you, if you would think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u83	Really finalizing then, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u84	The difference is: the framework treaty and the information I get through a MoU are basic, but if it wasn't for the framework treaty, I would have gotten the whole MoU, because that would be a treaty. Then I would have gotten the total information and not just basics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u85	That's just not true. Not every MoU is a treaty in that sense. So it is very much a matter of what is being agreed. We assume that a memorandum of understanding is a non-binding agreement, so that you also work out a number of things further together. That is why we want to improve the legal framework. We can then refer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u86	I suggest we move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u88	I would really like to give Mrs Karabulut the floor when she is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u90	Very good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u91	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. It should have been clearer, but I have to say that the Minister's answer has raised further questions with me. I'm trying to sum it up in two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Framework Convention on cooperation in defence matters between the Netherlands and the US provides that certain agreements in the Memoranda of Understanding resulting from defence cooperation and made possible by the Framework Convention are legally binding on the Contracting Parties;]] [[noting that written agreements between States which are legally binding under international law are agreements;]] [[considers that the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal does not sufficiently ensure transparency in new agreements on defence cooperation with the US;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber any new memorandum or understanding on defence cooperation with the US,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35260-(R2131-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u92	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has concluded a framework agreement with the US on defence cooperation;]] [[noting that the conventions which form the basis for the implementation of all kinds of cooperation are not public, nor are they open to the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Government to give the Chamber full access to the framework treaty on defence cooperation between the US and the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35260-(R2131)-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u93	I want to end with: trust is good, but control is better. And I'd like to be able to exercise control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u94	Thank you. I call Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u95	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. I am still a little concerned with the legal connection of a MoU, which the Americans would like to see. That is the future: the Americans would like to make legally binding agreements and lay down them in the MoU. Every MoU would thus become a treaty and thus become part of a consultation that should be held here in the Chamber. My question is: how does that work, if we do it differently and if we don't have this window contract? I was gonna get that information anyway. That's the dilemma I'm in right now. If I said we're not doing this framework agreement, I'd see all the MoUs coming by. I understand that there are a lot of them and that it's actually the Ministry's way of doing things. I understand all that, but I am looking for an opportunity from the Chamber to keep an eye on what is happening, especially where confidentiality is involved. I absolutely agree with my fellow Members on this point. What does this confidentiality mean? Then why is it confidential? Why shouldn't we be able to look at that in another way? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u96	Thank you, too. Mr Markuszower does not need a second term. Then we have already come to the end of the second term of office. Two motions have been tabled. The Minister wants a two-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u97	We need to continue the discussion of the framework agreement with the United States on military cooperation. The Minister is ready for her second term and also gives an opinion on the two motions tabled. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u98	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Having regard to the point made in the motion in part No. I would like to correct a misunderstanding with Mrs Karabulut. I did not know what she was referring to, but she referred to the preamble to the Treaty. I think there's been a misunderstanding. The preamble lists a number of treaties. These are underlying treaties that are in principle all public. So Mrs Karabulut's point is not true. All the treaties mentioned in the preamble are in principle public. That's right. I would also like to respond to the point made by Mr Bosman about the MoUs and to the non-sharing. That's what a motion is about. I'll give you an opinion on that in a minute. MoUs can also be classified, state secret. They can therefore be legally binding. Then they can't be shared. So you have to keep looking at what it's about. Mr Bosman asked how many MoUs there are now. Excuse me? I'm sorry, but I don't understand this question exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u99	Mr Bosman must use the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u100	We're just talking about MoUs with the United States, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u101	Yes, with the United States. That's clear. Sure. That's absolutely true. I understand it was about the United States. I checked. There's a lot of them. There are about 50 material MoUs. There are also operational and intel MoUs. Some of these MoUs are also multilateral, not bilateral. You have about 100 to 150 in total. In many there are components that are secret and therefore cannot be shared. I cannot call you that exact number, but this is about the number involved. Then you have an idea. About ten MoUs are closed every year, in different degrees; sometimes they are about one person, sometimes about other things. Then there are Mrs Karabulut's motions. The motion in part No. 7 invites the Government to submit any new memorandum or understanding on defence cooperation with the US to the Chamber. I have to discourage that motion because some of it can also be about confidential matters. So this is impossible. The motion in part No. 8 calls on the government to provide full access to the framework treaty on defence cooperation between the US and the Netherlands. We think that's what happened. I have already indicated that there is a misunderstanding in this regard. Everything underlying the framework treaty is public. I would therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u102	I will check the latter, because I did not see any reference on two parts to the Tractors magazine in which it was published and with which it is therefore public. Anyway, I'm assuming it's true. If that's the case, I'm gonna change things. On that first motion, the Minister says that not everything is public, so it cannot be. But the minister could start by sharing the part that is public. Secondly, I would ask her to explain why certain MoUs cannot then be shared with the Chamber, because this is really too easy. This just can't be happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u103	I have indicated that you will always be informed about the contents of the MoUs. I have explained the reasons why we do not disclose them: because they contain commercially confidential matters, sometimes personal matters, sometimes state secrets and sometimes other secrets. You will be informed about the content of the cooperation, but otherwise it is not possible. That's why I really don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u104	The Minister contradicts himself anyway. No one's asking about commercial and human affairs and so on. On the one hand, the Minister says a few times in the debate: "A memorandum of understanding is simply practical effect, nothing special. It all becomes more insightful and transparent. You will receive more information." Then we say, "Share what can be shared." And then the Secretary of State declares everything secret again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u105	No, it says "share any new memorandum of understanding." It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u106	And if we delete the word "everyone" so that the minister gets the space she apparently needs? No one here expects commercial business, names or anything to be shared. What if we delete that "everyone"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u107	Still. Sharing each MoU, that's what it's all about. You will be informed in broad terms about what is at stake. Then it is also about agreements with the Americans. They're into it, too. They should also allow for sharing, because it is a bilateral agreement. Sometimes it can, sometimes it can't. So they must certainly also give permission to share. Sometimes it's possible. Sometimes you will ask on the basis of what content is shared by us. Sometimes you won't want to know what's being agreed. We can actually look at it at times. But what it says here, it just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u108	But I do want to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u109	Mrs. Karabulut, you can say one more thing. You're not getting any closer, so your last remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u110	Well, that's not true. The Minister promises us transparency here and suggests that it will come with the framework treaty...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u111	That's your opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u112	The Minister says otherwise now. That's what I want to know. It is my right to know when information is withheld and for what reason. So I'm suggesting to the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u113	You shouldn't discuss this with me. You may ask the question one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u114	I propose that the Minister delete the word "everyone."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u115	The Minister has just responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u116	And then the Minister comes back to us when something cannot be done, because that is what we want to know too. We are burning with curiosity to be able to carry out our controlling task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u117	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u118	As we inform and also refer to the Treaty, the Chamber can carry out its task and ask questions about it in our direction. I'm gonna keep dissuading the motion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u119	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-32.u120	We are going to vote on the two motions tabled and the ratification law next Tuesday, 4 February. I thank the Minister, her support and the members for their input.
