ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	It is not on the agenda, but it is on the agenda to say goodbye to Mrs Popken from the PVV. She is not present in the Chamber, but I am going to read her letter anyway. "Dear Mrs. Arib, dear Khadija, With this writing I want to cancel my membership of the Lower House of States General as of 31 August 2020. Over the past 12 years, I have enjoyed working on both sides of the Binnenhof. Started as an employee, then sworn in as a senator and ending as a member of this House. However, because of my personal circumstances I had to decide to end my career in The Hague. I would like to thank my colleagues for their excellent cooperation and I would also like to thank the staff who support us MPs in both the First and Second Chambers for their efforts. Security, clerks, restaurant staff or reception. All of them make sure everything stays running. I would also like to thank my former employee Tim and current employee Justin for their commitment and friendship. I wish my fellow Members good luck and wisdom for the rest of their term. Fight the good fight. Gabrielle Popken'
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Dear Mrs. Popken, dear Gabrielle. She's not in the room, but I know she's watching. Your short suicide note is typical of you. Not too many words. In 2019, the NRC Handelsblad proclaimed you the most silent MP, a property that not everyone here possesses. When you entered the Chamber in 2017, the Binnenhof had little secrets from you. It was well-known territory. From 2011 to 2017, you were a member of the Upper House. You were the first senator ever to take maternity leave. And you worked for Geert Wilders for years. You made your maiden speech a few months later, at the end of June, in a debate you requested yourself, about plans for a European defence. You also joined the Defense Commission. From that role you often tried to meet and speak to the men and women in the army personally. For those people, you have a lot of appreciation, "because they work for their ideals and not for a flashy career or a high salary," you seem to have ever said. That's why you think it's very important to be here on Veterans Day. I've seen you there a lot. In 2018 you have been absent for some time in connection with maternity leave. Now you're leaving permanently, six months before the election. I wish you every success in your further career. Take care.
