ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of bill 34864, the Supplementary Law on Soil Environment Act. I would like to announce that, after the last speaker in this time-limit, we shall suspend his term of office for 15 minutes just after 2.30 p.m. During this suspension, the meeting of the IWO Committee will also take place. This is for the members of that committee. We shall then resume the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u3	Mr President, perhaps the time can stop, because it is running.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u4	You can start, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u5	Before I begin, I would like to say that I do not think I am the only one with this problem, Mr President, that the IWO Committee and the fourth term seem to be the same now. Or aren't they on top of each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u6	No, we'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u7	Thank you. I hope I get another 20 seconds. Today it's about our soil. The soil is evident in presence; something that will always be there. It is only when it is no longer there that it is no longer there, for example when the soil is contaminated, when the raw materials are on or when the water is polluted. Only then does it matter. I also find it very interesting to see that, when it was about soil pollution in the 1970s and 1980s, this room was completely full. Now we are talking about the law governing soil pollution and this morning we were in this room with a man or eight. Soil is the foundation we literally stand on. But soil is important not only for ourselves, but also for improving the quality of water-win and nature areas, for biodiversity in the broad sense and for the economic resilience of farmers in the future. I'll also take a look at my colleagues from the CDA. With exhausted soil, the possibilities for future generations of farmers to provide for their maintenance with agriculture are, of course, greatly reduced. So today it is not just about exhaustion, the prevention of pollution and the protection of public health, because that was all in the origins of the Soil Protection Act, but about the much wider question of whether we can deal with the current and future challenges with the Soil Supplementary Act and whether we can make transitions possible. It is about carbon and minerals: phosphorus, nitrogen, potassium, manganese, magnesium, iron and essential substances in the soil. It's also about life in the ground. We also need biodiversity in the ground to ensure that we are all able to live on it. It is also about the substances that we put into the ground, for example heat and cold storage. Therefore, soil quality must not only be protected; quality must be increased in order to make sustainable use of soil and water in the future. What happens or threatens to happen, you may not be able to imagine, but as a resident of Utrecht, where the Griftpark lies, I am. It is a fact that the soil quality in the Netherlands is not doing well. Soil quality is declining, both in terms of carbon and in biodiversity, as well as in the presence of pollutants. Like colleagues before me, at least some of them remain fundamental criticisms of the reform of environmental law at GroenLinks. Like all other laws covered by the environmental law system, the Supplementary Act is based on a relatively low content law, including a number of standardized AMvBs and ministerial regulations. The system also assumes a high level of confidence in the local authorities in order to make the right and concerted choices. Since yesterday afternoon, we know that this is not a self-evident recipe for success. The report of the ILT, drawn out by the NRC, shows that this does not go well in a third to a quarter of the cases and is certainly not self-evident for national tasks. I also think that we should take account of the fact that there are more and more politicians, local, provincial and national, who deny recognized scientific problems. So not only do we have governments that have difficulty in implementing rules on a decentralised basis, but we have more and more to do with politicians who do not recognise the problems in the future, and perhaps already. Let me give you an example of nitrogen. Like the Council of State, GroenLinks has serious objections to the design of the new system, whereby standards in developed regulations are placed at a decentralised level. We believe that confidence is not enough to achieve the improvement of quality. We also believe that the legal protection and equality of citizens in the new system are not sufficiently protected. This concern is reinforced by the rather evasive, vague process responses we get when we ask what that means for the behaviour of governments and citizens, and in particular municipalities. I also refer to the ILT report, where one-on-one states that municipalities have difficulty in making decisions when municipal interests, provincial interests and national interests are not one-on-one mutually exclusive. There's been enough change in the Environment Act, so I'm gonna keep going. The main themes of our input are the imbalance between the focus on health and the other goals, namely ecology and future use. We are going to talk about the position of the municipality in terms of content and finance, about independent monitoring of information, about environmental substances and their impact on the environment, and we are also looking at how this works locally. First something about health and ecology. Is a low-policy transposition sufficient to solve the challenges of today and in the future? Colleagues have already said something about this. The previous law looked beyond just public health. The explanatory memorandum also looks beyond public health, but in the drafting of the law it is only about the protection of public health. However, there are few hard legal comments on improving soil quality. The instruments provided by the Environment Act therefore focus mainly on public health and also rely on the power of the local government. We have two questions about this. How is the Minister going to improve the biological, ecological and physiological quality of the soil with the tools of the Soil Supplement Act and the Environment Act; so does not remain the same, but improve? Does it have objectives in this area and how will it ensure sufficient momentum if those objectives are not achieved, and how will it monitor progress in terms of content? I'd like a response. A second key question concerns the position of municipalities. Are these municipalities sufficiently equipped to play a role in soil protection? Are they able, not only to protect the soil, but also to strengthen it? I would ask the Minister to go into the parts of the ILT report in detail, which makes critical comments. Within this theme, we also ask for attention to be paid to a number of other aspects, namely how the overall balance is achieved at the decentralised level and how the interests of soil quality can be safeguarded in the long term, especially where the administration of the municipality is also responsible for serving many other, more concrete purposes. How does the Minister guarantee that the quality of the soil will be weighed in its entirety and that it will be possible to improve rather than decline over time? Would the Minister like to clarify that? To illustrate this, what happens, for example, at a polluted site that is not a threat to public health, but is not quite the best in terms of biodiversity, and where the municipality is already struggling to expand the business case for a housing project? How are we going to ensure that soil quality improves there too? Not only at GroenLinks, also in the Lower House live concerns about the integral balance at a decentralised level. The Ronnes motion has been adopted on integral, provincial visions. We've been a few months. I would like to hear from the Minister about the state of play with regard to the implementation of that motion. As a follow-up, will the Minister undertake to monitor to what extent the provinces make these integrated visions and to what extent they have used steering instruments to achieve these goals and whether they have set specific deadlines? Is it prepared to include the information on the use of these views in the annual monitor? Then the level of knowledge in municipalities. How is the Ministry going to ensure that municipalities have sufficient knowledge, funding and overview of and on the issues and solutions so that they are able to fulfil their role properly? The ILT report states that this is a major problem. Drinking water companies indicate that it would be useful if there were a mandatory transit operation, so that a ban on discharges or a ban on establishment could be introduced in groundwater extraction areas. I'd like a response. It would be nice if there were a distinction between small, medium and large municipalities and the location of the environmental services. Then there's a more painful point. The Minister points for knowledge and information to Bottom+ of Rijkswaterstaat, where municipalities can go for information if they do not have it themselves. Can they go there if they need extra capacity? Can the Minister indicate how this capacity of this centre is tailored to the additional questions that can be expected from both municipalities and environmental services? Then I have a more specific question, also in view of the standing commitment that is still somewhere in the air and which has become very relevant thanks to the ILT report, especially thanks to the broadcast of ZEMBLA last week. Can you even rely on the government's information? An independent body has been asked for where citizens can go if they have doubts as to whether the information provided by the government is correct, at least through the DSO, but after last week we may need to broaden it. I ask the Minister once again whether there is an independent point where people can submit information, or at Soil+, environmental service, or municipality, to technical people or something that is or is not true? Back to Bottom+ of Rijkswaterstaat. Last week we heard from ZEMBLA that Rijkswaterstaat was quite negative in the news about the authorisation of the substance granules in natural lakes. Did the Minister get this? She must be busy, otherwise I'll be happy to catch up with her. It is an application in the municipality of West Maas and Waal. There the statement was made "that there is an illegal activity that has been made possible by our highest official." How does the Minister qualify a top official who does such a thing? It also raises questions. How is the independence of environmental categorization for the use of substances under the Soil Supplementary Act guaranteed? Does the Minister agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that this should be an independent and environmental assessment and not an opinion of a top official? Can the Minister explain how the Soil Supplementary Act is used to prevent the official and or administrative summit from affecting the authorisation of these substances? And what actions were deported after last week's broadcast? Maybe it's all wrong. You always have to wait for that with newspapers and media programs. You always have to keep that possibility open. We would like to hear that, but we found this very worrying. For the rest, we agree with what the CDA has said about peeing and the environmental impact assessments where we would like to see an obligation. It's good that it's improving, but our feeling is that you can't go far enough when it comes to environmental impact assessment. The cost of execution. The Minister states that there is an efficiency impact in the implementation of the VTH column. That is in the answer to the further questions. Municipalities can assume, in terms of cost, that environmental services can do their partly new or expanded tasks through increased efficiency or at the same or even less cost. She refers to the report of the Mans Committee of 2007. However, this is based on a redistribution of tasks that has already taken place. The Minister seems to use this efficiency wish both in this law and in the previous redistribution of tasks. Is that right? If not, we would like to hear it, but otherwise we would like an explanation. Finally, the cost of the very worrying substances. My colleagues have already said a lot about this. The Minister states that there is a constructive consultation with the local authorities, but I would like to hear the state of play. In any case, I would like to receive the Minister's undertaking that this matter has been clarified with these local authorities before the Royal Decree and that we as the First Chamber will have an insight into the agreements made between the various domes and the Minister on the very worrying substances in the context of soil pollution. We want to prevent municipalities from being burdened with such a cost that they have already e-mailed themselves that it could be hundreds of millions. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the debate on this bill until tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-10.u9	I shall suspend the sitting for a short break of 15 minutes, i.e. until 14.48 p.m., after which we shall proceed with the further examination of the Supplementary Act.
