ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on legislative proposal 35283, Amendment of the Electricity Act 1998 and Gas Act (implementation of the Gas Directive and a number of regulations in the field of electricity and gas). Waiting's on the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr President, thank you. I am just going to do it in the order of speakers, and I will first turn to Mr Van der Linden. Mr Van der Linden rightly points out that we have a connection, the BBL, which will soon exist between the EU and a non-EU country. So it's changing status. It's gonna be an Interconnector to a third country. That's right. The transition period runs until the end of 2020. I still have to see what this is really going to be, but so far, of course, the EU framework remains in place. That interconnection between Member States was in line with the framework, so the legal regime does not change. The operation of that interconnector can be carried out in full. The fact that it becomes a connection with a third country means that the exemption has to be applied for again, but the exemption remains valid. There is therefore no reason to refuse that exception. The regime is not changing, and there is no reason to worry about it. So you have to apply for the exemption again, but the exemption basis remains, and that does not change the regime. Therefore, this does not require extensive negotiations, but rather the preparation of an application. Then who's the one who's gonna have to deal with the UK? In that case, that is the European Commission. Then the issue of security of supply. That's right, too. Of course, there is an increasing amount of non-controllable power in the power mix. In order to monitor the balance between supply and demand, we obviously need more measures. And that's exactly what we're doing. The pentalateral energy forum looks closely at supply and demand and also looks at what is needed to deliver European consumers at all times. That means exchange in all kinds of ways, because if it doesn't blow in one country and it does, then you can help each other. Then there may be a surplus in one country and a deficit in the other. By better linking that up and having thought about it carefully, you can avoid problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u4	The Minister states that if it is blowing in one country and not in another, you should be able to help each other, but they are often weather systems about 1,500 kilometers tall. If it doesn't blow here in the Netherlands, it often doesn't blow in Germany either. Then this reasoning is limp, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u5	We can all think about this here, but all kinds of specialised parties are doing exactly that. They study exactly this point; they look at what it takes to keep the system in the air. That's what countries do together, of course. Sitting in the pentalateral forum, unlike what you might think, seven countries. We count the Benelux as one country. Based on knowledge of weather systems and the generation pattern, it is ensured that this is consistent. But it is clear that you need to do more to ensure that supply and demand are properly matched; Mr Van der Linden is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u6	I get the feeling the Minister is avoiding my question. I was talking about those weather systems that are sometimes just 1,500 kilometers tall. Then my question remains, because if it doesn't blow in the Netherlands, it won't blow in Germany either. Then it's just limp. Then the Minister could say that specialised groups are working on this, but the same groups say that biomass plants are sustainable. That just doesn't mean anything to me. So let me ask my question again about this weather system: is it true that if it doesn't blow in the Netherlands, it won't blow in Germany either?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u7	No, that's not right in general. Because that is not generally true, there are people who look very closely at it and who with knowledge of the weather systems are looking not only at the wind, but also at the sun, looking at how we can guarantee stability in a system with less adjustable power. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Van der Linden's question as to whether the Netherlands should, through this kind of legislation, contribute to support for other regions, for example those which are now on coal. No, that has nothing to do with this legislation. I think Mr van der Linden is talking about Article 4 of the electricity market regulation. It does not contain a financial support instrument. For example, Article 4 refers to technical assistance. Member States can learn from each other, they can organise workshops, but it has no financial impact on the European Union or on network tariffs. It is therefore not through the network tariff subsidy to Polish coal regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u8	I would ask for some clarification, because the point the Minister refers to, the paragraph on the financial impact and the burden on the public authorities and industry states that the costs incurred for this work can be included in network charges. I described the costs of this cooperation in my first term. Then it is just that network charges are going up because of these costs for the Dutch customer and taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u9	We are talking about such a large number of laws that are interlocking that I would like to respond with precision to that exact point. The unusual proposal I have to make to Mr Van der Linden is therefore to encircle where he finds it in the legislation. Then I can respond with precision to what his concern is, because otherwise we might be talking past each other. So can I offer Mr Van der Linden a pen symbolically? Not physically, because you never know if you're gonna get sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u10	I suggest that you take care of that during the suspension and that you return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u11	Excellent. Let's do it like this. So the pen offer is symbolic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u12	I have a point of order. It's really a mini-paragraph. I can just read it directly to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u13	I'll leave it to the chairman to decide how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u14	If you want to read it to me, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u15	The explanatory statement states: "To support Member States and regions facing social, economic and industrial challenges as a result of the energy transition, the European Commission is introducing an initiative for coal and carbon-intensive regions. These regions may be assisted, inter alia, by direct financial support to enable a fair transition." That's what Article 4 says. Further on in the explanatory statement is the passage I mentioned, namely the passage which states that the costs of such work can be included in the network charges. That is neutral for the government, but not for the payer of those tariffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u16	These sentences aren't in the pieces, but they're somewhere. I have heard this before from Mr Van der Linden, but my question to him is to indicate exactly which piece that is in, because then I know what legislation that refers to. But we leave it to the President to regulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u17	No, no, Mr. Van der Linden. I suggest you do that in suspension. Perhaps the Minister will come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u18	I think that's excellent. I think that Mr Van der Linden and I are very well served. Then I'll come back to that later. Mrs Faber was concerned about security of supply and in particular about the groups that would be protected. Groups are not so much added. The protected customers are households and essential social services, such as health care. It is true that all kinds of other groups are not priorities. Should it be necessary to eliminate them, there is also the possibility in the legislation of reimbursement of their costs. This is also the cost of customers who would be switched off in that particular case. Mrs Faber asked if that caused a chain reaction. But now it seems that she has another question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u19	I would like to ask a few questions about those groups at risk, because the explanatory statement does contain a list. That's what the households are on. These are mentioned for the first time. They're in there anyway. Then there is a list of social institutions and, in my opinion, schools or hospitals or something like that. It states that Member States may allocate them to protected customers. But my question was: which groups have been added to this protected group in the Netherlands? Is that the list in the explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u21	Okay. That wasn't entirely clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u22	But Mrs Faber also asked: does that give a chain reaction? I think that is a logical question, because you can imagine that Poland has a shortage, which means that Germany has to deliver to Poland, because they are neighbours, but then the Netherlands has to deliver to Germany again and so on. But you can't, because that's not how the rule works. You are only obliged to deliver to a neighbouring country if you do not have to ditch your own protected customers. Thus, in the event that Germany supplies Poland, Germany does so in such a way that it does not have to dwindle its own protected customers. As a result, the situation does not arise that the Netherlands would have to deliver to Germany. So this is not the issue of the chain reaction. But it was a good question. Thus, if a country helps its neighbours, it will never endanger its own protected customers, nor, nor can it, call on its own neighbour, because its own protected customers are not in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u23	I understand the Minister's explanation of the protected customers. But the big companies may be in trouble, because they are not protected customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u24	That's true. They could also be compensated for this, but that does not give rise to a chain reaction. If Germany helps Poland, it may cause German companies a problem, but because they are not protected customers, Germany cannot rely on the Netherlands. So that doesn't affect us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u25	The Minister's explanation is clear. I did not ask the Minister whether companies fell within that group, but it is now clear that they do not have a protected status in the event that we should deliver, because the large companies do not belong to the socially protected customers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u26	Yes, there is a distinction between the protected customers and the unprotected customers. Then, in its second first term, she asks "yes," the numbering becomes complex "if the 0.8% efficiency gains per year take into account population growth." In this sense, population growth has been taken into account that this is the net figure, including the expected population growth. She also asks if the discounts on the delivery costs... Oh, I see the answer isn't satisfactory all at once. I will look at the chairman to see if he will give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u27	I'll do it in a minute. We are now only talking about the first legislative proposal in the Minister's first term. We will have a separate first deadline for the Minister on the second proposal to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u28	To be honest, I started that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u29	I didn't do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u30	Ah, then we're completely out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u31	We are now discussing the first legislative proposal to be dealt with. It's my job to guard the order a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u32	Sure. No, this is gonna be unorderable. I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u33	I would like to call for this deadline to be limited to the first legislative proposal mentioned. Then we will be joining the government's first term of office on the second legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u34	Sure. Then this was my first term. We shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u35	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u36	Can I do that now? Can we start the second first term now? I'll take a look at the chairman. No, not by a long shot. No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u37	No, we're going to deal with this bill first in the government's first term. We're about to get a separate first term from the government on the second bill. So we are holding two debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u38	Okay, then I've come to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u39	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Linden for the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions we asked. That was actually three on the basis of three issues that we dealt with, first of all the status of the Brexit negotiations. The Minister indicated that the operation would not be compromised, that it would continue and that there would be no reason for concern in that regard. The second point was about the wobbling current, about the adjustable power. What the Minister said about this was already clear to us. It's good to have that confirmation. There will be more non-controllable power from solar and wind energy. So that's what you have to do. That is also what is happening in this bill. Unfortunately, on behalf of my group, I would add that. We are in favour, strong supporters, of energy security, of variable power. You don't have to be with the sun and the wind. You need to find that in the corner of nuclear power and thorium. Until that has been achieved, because that is not what it says tomorrow either, you can do just fine with gas and state-of-the-art coal power stations, which has unfortunately been decided to close early. Then there is the last point I raised in my first term. Is it now possible to pay for the gas linking of homes or companies in the EU through the tariffs of our network operators? There's still no way to decide. I have made a motion for this, but it may be that in the suspension we come to the conclusion that I do not have to submit it if the Minister absolutely confirms that it is not possible for Dutch tax money to be used to link homes to natural gas abroad, whereas the policy here in the Netherlands is unfortunately currently aimed at spending millions to take homes off natural gas. If he doesn't rule that out, I'd like to table a motion for that. But if the Minister really explicitly excludes that from the case, I will not. So I should also like to look at the President: what is the order of business?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u41	You can file the motion now or you can ask for a third term later. If the Chamber allows you a third term, you may still submit your motion. Or you can file her now and pull her back a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u42	Then I'll file the motion for convenience now. I will read to her and possibly withdraw her; then there will be no third term. The President shall: Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that through the Act Implementation Amendment Gas Directive and a number of regulations in the field of electricity and gas, it is possible that costs for EU direct support to coal and low carbon regions within the EU will be charged to Dutch households via the grid operator tariffs;]] [[noting that this does not exclude the use of Dutch tax money to link homes to natural gas abroad, while the policy in the Netherlands is currently aimed at spending millions to extract homes from natural gas;]] [[calls on the Minister to inform the European Commission that the Dutch taxpayer does not wish to pay in any way for costs abroad, to connect residents and/or companies there to natural gas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35283-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u43	I can't comment on the motion yet, if that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u44	Will the Minister be able to respond directly in the second term to this second term of the Chamber on legislative proposal 35283? If so, I am happy to give the Minister the floor and he can start his term. If not, I'll suspend for a term that the government is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u45	The only response I am required to is a response to the motion, and for that I need to speak back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u46	Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u47	I will give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy for the second term of the government's legislative proposal 35283.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u48	Yes, Mr President, that is why it is so useful to know not only what it says, but also what it says. For the texts that Mr van der Linden read were all literal texts, on pages 11 and 13 of the explanatory memorandum, but they do not strike at each other. It is true that regions can be assisted for a just transition, a "just transition"; that is true, that is on page 11. Then on page 13 it says that "The costs incurred for this work can be taken into account in the network charges'. That's about something completely different. This is not about any aid to cost-intensive regions, but it is about the specific costs of cooperation between regional network operators, such as those resulting from an entity to be set up. That's Article 53. These costs, worth around, broadly speaking, according to the experts' current estimate, €1 per year per household, can, if they occur, be included in network charges. But that's about something completely different from page 11. That is the reassuring part of my statement. At the same time, I see that the motion is not directly related to the concerns surrounding pages 11 and 13, because that could be even more reassuring and make the motion unnecessary. I am not sure that I can do that now, because it says here that we 'in no way' contribute to costs abroad. I can't tell, that's a conversation that's still going on. And it should not be considered on this particular issue, but the Dutch interest must be weighed in the broadest sense. That's why I'd like to dissuade this motion, in this width.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u49	The Minister puts it in this context, in this broad sense. But is it not possible that the Dutch taxpayer is going to pay for linking houses abroad to natural gas, is it not? If it is absolutely impossible that, while we are getting rid of natural gas here, we should be paying for helping other countries with natural gas, then there is a satisfied man here. But if you say that this is not entirely certain and that the Dutch taxpayer may also be paying for it, we are even more concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u50	For about every country in the Union, natural gas is a transition fuel, including for us. Gas use is still under way until 2050. We also win natural gas until 2050. So it's not weird that natural gas is used as a transition fuel in all kinds of countries. I cannot see whether it is specifically the case that we are in no way contributing to this transition in other countries. For the time being, I can only see that it is unwise to record us on one point, because the Dutch interest is always pursued in broad terms. That's why I advise against this motion, in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u51	The minister says he can't oversee that. Can he at least indicate whether or not he would consider it desirable if Dutch taxpayers were to pay for linking countries abroad to natural gas, residents abroad? The minister says he can't oversee it. But does he find it desirable or undesirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u52	I think it is desirable that, from the Dutch point of view, we should define our commitment in broad terms in Europe and not just focus on one aspect. So whether this is desirable depends for me on the wider context of where we end up. In the end, Mr Van der Linden may, holistically speaking, agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u53	Does that bring you to the end of your second term? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-7.u54	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I also propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled.
