ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Emiel van Dijk, on behalf of the PVV, for his question on the increase in crime among asylum seekers. The question is addressed to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Crime among asylum seekers is on the rise: almost 5,000 crimes in 2019. "It's waiting for it to go wrong for once," said an anonymous COA employee who, because of the COA's reign of terror, was not allowed to talk to the press about asylum crime. All this is happening under the Presidency and under the responsibility of a VVD Secretary of State, you know, that so-called party of law and order. This Secretary of State indicated, after her arrival, about a year ago, that she was going to crack down on the troublemakers. But what has the Secretary of State done for the past year? I can easily sum it up for you, Chairman: nothing at all, nothing at all, naks, nada. Unfortunately, it has not come far beyond a top 100 list of the biggest nuisances, the transformation of window officers into chain sailors and the continued provision of free reception services. In fact, under the responsibility of this Secretary of State, crime among asylum seekers has only increased. More thefts, more assaults and more life crimes. And the solution is so simple, Mr. Chairman. Obtrusive asylum seekers should not be put on a list, but back on the plane to the country of origin, so do not continue to stagger in asylum care at the expense of the Dutch taxpayer. You have to throw them on water and bread, just as long as they buy a ticket back home out of despair or that they are deported by the Return & Departure Service. The PVV has been coming up with solutions to deal with this asylum equipment for years, but the State Secretary refuses to listen. The PVV therefore has one simple question to the Secretary of State. When is she finally going to use her healthy sense of farming and close the borders for asylum seekers, secure all the scum and then actually squeeze criminals and oppressors out of the country? One question: when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. I agree with Mr Emiel van Dijk that it is extremely worrying that the figures on nuisances did not diminish in 2019. Trouble in all forms is unacceptable. Indeed, we had already received signals from mayors and Commissioners of the King that they were suffering from nuisance in the area. That is why I have taken measures from the moment I arrived, which hopefully, if we are lucky, we will reap the benefits. And I'll bet on that. Three chain sailors have been appointed to ensure that every incident and every level of nuisance is dealt with quickly. They also ensure that many reports are made by those involved in incidents, shoplifting and other unpleasant cases. The chain marines also have a Top X list. On that Top X list are the 300 most annoying wheeldrivers. They're really on the skin by the chain marines. I also opened a htl in Hoogeveen last February, an enforcement and monitoring site. There is a very strict regime in place for the biggest nuisances. In municipalities, mayors and municipal authorities have banned areas. That's where the COA licks piece. There's no living money there. Transfer takes place or a reporting obligation is imposed, outside of corona time. I'll do a little extra. There will be a fourth chain sailor, because we see that the activities of the chain sailors are extremely successful. There will be a toolbox of measures made available to municipalities and from which they can draw to ensure that the nuisance is reduced. An amount of EUR 1 million per year is also made available to the chain sailors to support municipalities if they have any questions, to take measures to reduce nuisance and incidents. Mr Emiel van Dijk's specific question is: when am I going to close the borders and when am I going to secure the troublemakers? We live in Europe and in Europe we have the free movement of people and goods, as well as capital. Border closures have recently been done by some countries, not the Netherlands, within the framework of the coronavirus, COVID-19. You yourself have seen that this is an incredibly difficult economic situation, because the open borders we have in Europe are a great asset that we all benefit from. When am I gonna lock down the people who cause this nuisance? If there are criminal incidents, then the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are at play. Then we are working hard to ensure that there is a report of nuisances, and that this is indeed in the hands of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then it may be that someone gets locked up after a conviction. That's the way for criminal acts, but just to lock up nuisances... You must be careful: in the incident report we have provided, there is also the violation of the COA's house rules. I can't put someone in jail for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	We're talking about crimes here, not breaking house rules. Over the past year, it's been 5,000 cases, crimes. It all sounds nice and nice, but once again it is clear that the Secretary of State refuses to take action and that she leaves her feet hanging again in the face of that brutalised EU regulation that always seems to be throwing soot in the food. Otherwise, the Secretary of State would do very well. It is striking that the last few weeks have spared no effort in getting Moroccans on a plane from Morocco to the Netherlands, while, if I may believe you, it is impossible for you to put troublesome Moroccans who are kicking shit here back on the plane more than 50% according to your report. How is that possible? So who still believes the VVD, Chairman? They constantly promise things they don't deliver and say things they don't mean. The Secretary of State is kidding people. I should like to ask you one thing: can you handle this responsibility? Because it doesn't look like it. You fail again and again. If it turns out you can't do it, isn't it time you handed over the stick to someone else who can?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Emiel van Dijk sketches the image of the Moroccans who cannot go to the Netherlands. These are Dutch people who also happen to have a Moroccan passport. That is a complex case, and the Foreign Minister is working hard on it. How can I not get people to Morocco is Mr Emiel van Dijk's question? I would also like to say that the relationship with Morocco is complex, as has recently been shown once again. The cabinet is working hard to ensure that we can take action. The basis of Mr Emiel van Dijk's question, which is at the end of the day, is: "You are failing. Why don't you quit? Isn't it better for someone else to do this?" I have to tell you that I have devoted a great deal of effort to this task and I have extended it, but it is difficult to say in three or six months: now I have solved it. But hopefully we will reap the benefits of the measures we are taking and the way in which we are dealing with the nuisance. I'm betting on getting those fruits. We live in a rule of law. That means that we can't just say, while there are no rules for that: oh, I'm locking Pietje down or I'm locking Klaasje up. As I said, we are working hard with the chain marines, with the Top X list, with the Htl, with the area bans, with the lick-on-piece policy, to ensure that we can contain that nuisance, which is indeed unacceptable. We're working hard to give those 300 wheeldrivers as much lick as possible. That's what I'm doing, and I'm still working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	With 'hopefully' and'maybe in the future we can reap the benefits of policy', of course, we cannot do anything at all. That policy certainly doesn't make any sense at all. I can't reach it with my head. You don't do anything and you give people free rein. They can all come here, kick shit, rob, rob, rape, and you name it. And what do you say? You say, "I'll put them on a top 300 list." Well, congratulations; that'll scare them. You're gonna have to squeeze them out of the country. That's the only thing that's gonna work. No one will benefit from "hoping for a happy ending."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. I'm going to see Mr. Bishop first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Can I give a very brief response to the last thing Mr Van Dijk said, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	Yes, of course. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr Van Dijk says they can come here, they can rob, they can do this and they can do that. That is not the case. We are very strict about not being allowed to do so. It's not like we're gonna open the door and say, "Come and rob me." That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	First, Mr Bishop will be given the floor on behalf of the SGP. Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Hiddema will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have to say that Mr Emiel van Dijk has a point in my view, although I do not make the texts he formulates mine. I suspect that, if he had the chance, he would even table a motion of censure at Question Time. Luckily, that can't be protocolary. But when I hear the answer from the Secretary of State, I get the impression that the problem is underestimated. It is proudly reported that there are three chain marines who are 300 people on the skin, and that is only the top. That's not possible. You can't have 300 crooks on the skin with three chain marines. And then they got another 1 million available to support municipalities. My question is brief and good: what else does the Secretary of State need to deal effectively with this misery and simply put these crooks in their place?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	The problem is certainly not underestimated, because every incident is too much and is really terrible. And for those who suffer those incidents, it's completely horrible. Mr Bishop talks about three chain sailors. We have now decided that there will be a fourth chain marine. I see Mr Bishop now putting his hands in the air: what does it make of the dike? I can assure you that the deployment of those chain marines, the toolbox with measures and the way it is handled put things right. It is precisely through this commitment that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, municipalities, COA and IND are working together to reduce this nuisance. We have already seen results of this collaboration in Harderwijk, in Boxmeer, in Grave. We see these results through cooperation, by tackling it together and also by ensuring that where there is nuisance and incidents occur, it is reported. That works! They're gonna make a big bet on that. We can gradually reap the benefits of this. But that is just something that takes time, and that also requires the commitment of all the parties involved. This commitment has been made partly thanks to the efforts of the chain marines, but also of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and municipalities. This has been achieved in some municipalities and it is increasingly being rolled out. That means it's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	It's really hard for the average Dutchman to understand what we're doing. I understand the dilemma the Secretary of State is in, because you can't just solve everything in one stone, even if you'd like to. Still, there may be things we can do. We've argued earlier to put them together faster. These guys don't stand a chance. They do not get asylum in the Netherlands at all. So when are we going to put them together faster, in a very sober facility? And what are we doing right now to increase the pressure on countries, to ensure that those countries have an interest in taking them back? I know that there is consultation between the various departments, but I would really like to see its impact visible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	I very much agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg. There's got to be pressure on those countries. I am working on this together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister Blok, and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. We're working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Hiddema. You must use the other microphone, because it has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	Here we are again. Same misery with the safety boys. It's not gonna stop. And the debate has a predictable cadence. Alarming numbers, it goes from bad to worse. The Secretary of State, powerless, fleeing verbal force, is working very hard. And from the chain marines, no less than four, they'll learn from that. We had one, and it's only gotten worse. That one was expected by your predecessor a great deal of salvation and blessing. Never heard from that man again. What we are now seeing are very alarming reports, so that the people in the COA are going crazy and simply looking at you with the question: what are you going to do? We haven't learned much today. They're alarming messages. You'll agree with me, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	And there's an overview now. The question's gonna be here any minute. Well, I hope...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	Well, Mr. Hiddema, the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	I hope that the distressed Secretary of State has expressed her concern to the Moroccan ambassador, for example. If it does open her mail. That is very much the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	But my question is this. No, I've expressed the hope. I have a question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	Oh, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	We have 4,224 subpoenas. So these aren't house rules violations, they're subpoenas. So these are suspects who can all be regarded as recidivists. They are safe here and for one purpose: grab what you can grab.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	Now I'd like to know, Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	No, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	How many times have they been remanded into custody in those cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	You could have asked that without a very long introduction!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	Because I enthuse the Secretary of State towards an honest answer and she understands my concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	I share Mr Hiddema's concerns, as well as I share the concerns of the other Members of Parliament. That is what I said to Mr Emiel van Dijk, Mr Bisschop and Mrs Van Toorenburg. The figures in this incident report are indeed worrying and this nuisance in all forms is unacceptable. They are indeed alarming messages. I agree with Mr Hiddema. But at the same time we need to see the following. You would like to have, and that is also what Mr Emiel van Dijk has put forward: close the borders, do not let them in here. But we have an asylum system and that means that... We are a rule of law: a person who comes here for asylum is given a procedure. In that procedure, someone is housed in an azc. Then we have to make sure that it goes well. We are doing our utmost to ensure that this goes as well as possible, that there are no shoplifting and that indeed the authorities, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, municipalities and all other organisations work together to ensure that this is contained as much as possible. They're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	Your second question must also be very brief, Mr. Hiddema. You'll have to press the pedal, otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	I can get so excited about this subject. I have asked the Secretary of State how many times I have to check it out, because it's quite a lot of "4,224" subpoena cases have been filed on behalf of the D.A.'s office. I am asking for this because a safe man in remand very quickly voluntarily chooses to leave the country. That always works! Read Van Zwol's report. Ergo, what's to be done? You have to choose them. These are all recidivists. "Get what you can grab" is a ground for remand. That is why my question, which has still not been answered, is: how many times has a request for remand been made? Because that land is there. And why doesn't your ministry give instructions to the officers to always do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	I don't have those numbers on how many times I've been remanded into custody. Mr Hiddema knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	Big piece of cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	No, Mr. Hiddema. You've already been there. The Secretary of State just answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	I was replying to Mr Hiddema on the incident report. The figures mentioned by Mr Hiddema, of how many times the Public Prosecutor's Office has requested remand, are not in the incident report. And to what extent those figures can come up... Let me say this. I could have them checked to see if they could surface. I am not giving the answer that can happen, but I am willing to ask if that could happen. With a normal effort, huh? I don't want us to be-don't-know-how long to take all those things out manually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	And if you have that information, you're going to share it with the Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	Then I share it of course; I don't keep it to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	He'll be here, because you're working very hard. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Hiddema! Well, I first saw Mr. Emiel van Dijk. No? Okay. Then I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	It is good that we get those figures, because it was indeed a motion from Mr Hiddema and I that called for us to see if we could arrive more quickly at a conditional detention for those who break the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	A remand, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	A remand, I'm sorry. So it is good that we can hopefully get those figures, so the Secretary of State is going to make a commitment to this. We know that there's a very large group among those safelanders that is causing nuisance. For that we have Hoogeveen on the one hand. On the other hand, the Secretary of State has also used the policy to separate them from the azc's as long as they do not go wrong. Can the Secretary of State also state whether that has been achieved by now? Can we put them separately in the azc's now? And can we also let go of a stricter regime or a strengthened regime so that we can keep an eye on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	What the COA would like, and I would like with the COA, is a separate department to separate the trouble-giving safety people, because that's what we're talking about. No municipality has yet been found willing to say yes to that, but the COA is still trying to find something on that, in order to achieve that. But it is not the case that municipalities are jumping out of: give me here an institution with trouble-giving safe-lords. We are working to see what solution we can find which will achieve as much as possible what we would like to achieve, namely to keep those troublesome safe people in sight and to provide sober shelter, to give them a bite if it becomes annoying and to apply strict measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you.
