ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	We have come to the answer of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Over the past year and a half I have come to know the portfolio of Asylum and Migration as a particular fascinating dossier, which first and foremost calls for practical solutions to complex problems. Therefore, my debates with your Chamber were mainly about matters in the asylum field that were not flexible and what needed to be done about them. It is right, because the importance of a well-organised and well-run asylum and migration system cannot be overestimated, and there is a great deal of work to be done every day. We will continue to discuss issues such as lead times and capacity problems in detail today. Many of these problems are so persistent that we cannot solve them today, nor will we be able to solve them tomorrow. Solutions in asylum policy are often a long-term issue. This sometimes leads to frustrations, especially among asylum seekers, who sometimes have to wait far too long for a decision or for the right reception. But it also leads to frustration in your Chamber, among many citizens, and certainly among those who work on these solutions every day. I assure you, I understand and recognize that. But what I certainly recognize from many Members of your Chamber is the even greater determination to achieve improvements together. The great involvement of your Chamber and the sometimes sharp debates that we have here have led in many cases to good results and progress. I would also like to inform you today about these positive developments. In addition to these extremely important practical issues, there is another topic on which I would like to reflect a little more broadly today in my last budget debate. That is the greater importance of what we are shaping here. You can rest assured; I will do so briefly. I shall then reply to the questions put by your Members. This response will break down into the following parts: the robust migration chain, nuisance, the international dimension and, finally, trafficking in human beings and prostitution. Madam President. Since my arrival in July 2019 as Secretary of State for Justice and Security, I have been looking for the balance every day, the right balance in the dilemmas facing a ruler on this department day in and day out. Because this department is ultimately responsible for admission but also for return. We want to be humane, but not naive. There are people who need our help and there are people who are taking advantage of our asylum system. We must be careful, but at the same time we must keep up the momentum. We must keep a close eye on the equality of law, but we must keep an eye on poignant cases. And every day, we have to make an honest balance between personal casuism and the general interest. Love is deeply rooted in our society; I am convinced of that. If someone in distress knocks on a door in the Netherlands, that door will normally open. That is what we want to be as a country, in our attitude to the world. The Netherlands wants to offer protection to those fleeing war or persecution. This has been my main objective over the last year and a half: to strengthen the asylum system to help people flee persecution or violence and to open the door to them. This also means that we need to work on the Dutch' willingness to open that door whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	I think this is a very nice sentimental talk: we are a country that welcomes people. But we have also been a country under the VVD for ten years now that has not kicked out guests who have 'overstayed' their welcome, so have stayed too long. The VVD now makes the plea that we should welcome everyone, but on the other hand no people are being sent back who have been here for too long. Isn't it a bit one-sided to tackle the problem like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is a pity that Mr Van Dijk did not wait a while, because that is what I come up with. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	I only wanted to start by saying that our institution is that we must be able to protect people fleeing war or violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	And are you going to come to that other point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	Yes, I come now to Mr Van Dijk's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	You'll have the floor in a moment, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	The willingness to open the door is not self-evident. There is scepticism, and there is every reason for that. Let me continue on the example of the knock on the door. Over the past few years, we have been dealing with people knocking on the door and then, as it were, putting their feet between that door, entering the house and then refusing to leave. Sometimes they also drape on the couch unsolicited and plant their shoes on the coffee table. With this last picture, I am referring to troublesome asylum seekers, often young people from safe countries who have no right to stay here. That feels like a mockery of notions of hospitality and fellow humanity. It's injustice, in two ways. One. Any incident involving annoying asylum seeker is a violation of the sense of justice and the sense of security. Two. Anyone who seeks asylum when he or she does not really need it will in the longer term reduce the chances for others who do flee violence and persecution, for those who are persecuted for their ethnicity, political belief, sexual identity or belief. The Netherlands has no quota for refugees. That's what the cabinet chose. But the fact is that there is indeed a limit to the absorption capacity and strength of our society. That limit may be less tangible, but it is palpable, even in the debates on asylum policy in your Chamber. From this point of view, I have worked hard over the last year and a half to combat nuisance, improve procedures, prevent abuse, reduce delays, tighten border controls and promote return. Where that has led to successes, that was first and foremost the merit of others. Our asylum and migration chain is the work of many, first of all the executive services: the IND, the COA and the Return and Departure Service. My experience is that there is careful and dedicated work there. However, our asylum and migration system also drives the work of many more people, from the AVIM and the Marechaussee to the countless volunteers throughout the country and from the many people involved in the municipalities, the administration and the population, to the authorities in the provinces. Having said all this, I now turn to answering your Chamber's questions. I shall begin with the dossier on which your Chamber has expressed the greatest concern, namely the delays in the IND. Mr. Chairman. The delays at the IND are a big concern. These delays need to be overcome, first and foremost in the interests of the asylum seekers themselves, but also to ensure that the service itself has the capacity to act and the capacity for asylum in society is maintained. That is precisely why I wanted to make an extreme effort over the past year to support the IND in order to free itself from the heavy burden of the backlogs. This has only partially been achieved. I understand the disappointment and concern in your Chamber. I share that disappointment and those concerns. May I say more prosaic? I'm so excited about it! In 2019, the Cabinet made additional structural funding available to the IND at the request of your Chamber. The Spring Paper 2020 provides for additional resources for 2020, 2021 and 2022 based on this spring's estimates. Last year, I had Significant carry out an investigation into the asylum procedures in the so-called Track 4. This showed that the management and planning in this area can be improved. Then I set up the task force to get rid of the backlogs. With the Temporary Law suspension periodic penalty payments IND I have suspended the periodic penalty payments for exceeding the applicable time limits. There is also work in parallel on the structural improvement of the organisation of the IND, but this has not yet removed the concerns that I and this debate have expressed in your Chamber regarding the organisation of the asylum chain. Research has already been carried out in recent years on various sub-areas of the chain by KPMG and Significant and there are also reports from Van Zwol and Donner. It's really time to turn those advices into action. That's why we're doing it. This is an important lesson for large implementation organisations, and so is the migration chain. At the same time, I would like to see what further profit can be made. That is why, in addition to existing analyses in 2021, I would like to have an external, independent screening of the asylum chain carried out with all interested parties. Without the heavy burden of the delays, we can continue to build a robust and future-proof asylum chain. Earlier this has been done by the Department of JenV, for example, in relation to the criminal justice chain. At the moment, priority is given to the efforts being made to eliminate the backlogs and to remove the new asylum applications within the legal deadline. I will inform your Chamber as soon as possible about the approach of this screening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	Were those the answers that relate to the second part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	On the head robust migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	Do you have all of that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	No, no, no, I have another piece on the task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u16	I would do the same, because then I have Mr Emiel van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Groothuizen and Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u17	I'll just finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yeah, that's great. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u19	Then I'll join the task force. The mandate at the start of the task force was ambitious. It had to be, given the size of the delays. Over the past few months, the task force has continued to focus on deciding on the 15,350 cases known to the mission. Despite the setbacks, which included COOVID-19, some 8,000 cases are expected to be decided at the end of the year. For thousands of people who have been waiting a long time for a decision, the uncertainty about their asylum application has now ended. By letter of 7 September, it was stated that there was a risk that some of the cases would not be concluded before the end of the year. In addition, this letter indicated that an acceleration was expected in the handling of applications from that moment on. After that, everything has always been focused on rounding off before the end of the year, as also mentioned. This commitment is also fully included in the annex to the mandate letter sent on 3 November last, which came from the national management table of 28 October 2020. In accordance with the Van Ojik motion, the second progress letter on the task force was prepared in November. It became clear that the proposed acceleration did not occur to the full extent, I say in response to questions from, among others, Mr Van Ojik. The most recent task force production data was shared with the Lower House by letter dated 18 November last. Mr. Chairman. In a way, the task force has indeed achieved an achievement. We have managed to break down the trend of slow-downs, and to counter the effects of the covid pandemic. The IND must now become an efficient and effective working organisation. Only then can we talk about the robust migration chain that we all want, which can withstand the unpredictability of migratory flows in the coming years. The past shows that full shrinkage with lower inflow can cause problems later. Financial uncertainty also increases vulnerability. This offers the IND a more stable financial playing field, especially thanks to your Room. Continuous windows and monitors of in-, through- and out-flow remain necessary in order to be able to act in a timely manner. The budgets will be adjusted in the spring note on the basis of the latest insights. The Flexibilisation Asylum Chain Programme has developed opportunities for organisations to increase flexibility in the coming years, for example with a renewed identification and registration process, a common planning and more flexible reception capacity. In 2021, we will take steps to implement this. Currently, 27,700 people are staying with the COA. That is almost the maximum responsible occupation. There is therefore an urgent task to achieve more reception places for asylum seekers in the short term. Too few people flow to the municipalities, and that is undesirable, I say to Mr Jasper van Dijk. Municipalities, provinces and the Ministry of the Interior are now doing everything in their power to accommodate status holders as quickly as possible. The cabinet has drawn up a package of measures to speed up the housing of licence holders. Finally, it identifies which elements differ from those in other EU Member States in national laws, regulations and implementation practices in order to examine the extent to which adjustments can contribute to the effectiveness of the migration chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u20	That's it about the migration chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u22	Then I'll go to Mr. Emiel van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u23	I think it is a very nice analogy: the door must be open. But then people come in and put their feet on your couch and on your table. Furthermore, in the story I actually hear a lot of civil servants' prose, a lot of bureaucratic talk, I would almost call it. Because the facts speak for themselves. For years the VVD has kept the door open without saying: that's enough; we kick those people out when they deserve it. Look at those 750,000 non-Western immigrants who have been let in during the ten years in which the VVD is in power. Look at the bed-bath-bath-bath facilities for the people who put their feet on the couch and then set your house on fire, so to speak. All of them are offered bed, bath and bread, still, by you. This will then be converted into a national immigration facility, a nice name for a facility that will still help people who have been out of work to obtain a permit. So what the Secretary of State is doing here is with a lot of words and an anthology of bureaucratic bullshit...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u24	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u25	... actually concealing that nothing happened at all and that it's a huge mess in asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u26	I cannot agree with Mr Van Dijk. Much has happened, and I have just indicated all this. There is one thing that Mr Van Dijk must not forget: that we all have an asylum policy in order to accommodate those who flee war and violence. That asylum policy is in place, and we must take that into account. That's the thing for us. All the measures we have taken in recent years have contributed greatly to ensuring that things have worked out well. Because in such a crisis as in 2015, it is quite a task to register all those people, to provide them all with shelter and the like. We have all succeeded and we have also taken a lot of measures to take care of things that are not working out as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u27	Let's clear up one thing. Those who flee war and violence do not bother to travel through eight different countries such as Greece, Austria, France, Poland, Hungary, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, and to say everywhere they pass: it is all not safe here, let me go on to the Netherlands. No, these people come through six, seven, eight, sometimes ten safe countries, with the help of human smugglers. With the help of shady NGOs, they come across the border here because of what this cabinet offers them. That is a free house, that is free care, that is free living money, daily spending and all at the expense of people who are still waiting for a rental house, because all of these people are going to go from that azc into a social rental house. That's what the VVD does. And that has nothing to do with mercy or "we have to keep the door open for people who run from war." It's been 4,000, 5,000 miles away, war in Syria, and those people are all coming here. Reception in the region? What happened to shelter in the region the VVD would be so proud of? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u28	Mr Van Dijk sketches a very gloomy picture of people coming to the Netherlands on purpose, although they are fleeing war and violence. Let me say this: I think that people who flee war and violence really do not want to walk thousands of kilometres to be safe. They walk thousands of miles to be safe because it's not safe for that. In this respect, I think we should pay close attention to the fact that we are not addressing people's motives which may not be at the time at all for those people, but that they are trying to save their lives. That's important. As regards reception in the region, I do not think Mr Van Dijk can blame the VVD, because the VVD has worked very hard on the Turkey deal to make it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u29	750,000 non-Western immigrants under ten years of VVD, so you have indeed worked very hard, but that is not to keep people out of the door. Having said that, am I a little disgusted about this, because how is it that the Secretary of State for the VVD says here: people who walk thousands of kilometres don't come here for the facilities? Does the Secretary of State really dare to say that about people arriving in Italy who say: in Italy I catch the train, then I go to Austria, and then I take a van and go to Germany? Then, in Germany, they say 'we don't buy it here anyway' and then they arrive in the Netherlands, in Ter Apel. Then there is the Secretary of State of the VVD with a huge welcome sign 'come here, sit in that shelter, here you have free health care', while Henk and Ingrid have to pay for it. Here you have free accommodation, while we have huge waiting lists of rental homes, while older people no longer have a place to live, while you house asylum seekers in wooded environments. You can't be serious, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u30	What we are doing, and what I am doing, is ensuring that we can implement a strict and fair asylum policy. That's important. We've done that in the past few years. I think it's incredibly good that we operated that way. It is important to have an asylum policy, but you have to be strict. At the same time, you have to make sure it's just. We've been working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u31	Finally. We can't have a more unjust policy than this. The Dutch are constantly being put behind by the VVD. All the time! They can lock up in the back for a rental house. They can whistle to free health care. The care premium is about to go up again. Asylum seekers get all that for free from this government, and ten years from the VVD. Please do not come forward with 'we must have a just policy'. You are doing the biggest injustice to the Dutchman who has to work hard to pay for the reception of economic refugees, to pay for the health care and to pay for the shortage on the housing market. That's a huge injustice. You should be concerned about this; not about asylum seekers who have travelled six, seven, eight, nine or ten different countries for economic reasons because it is so pleasant and warm to come home here, in the Netherlands of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u32	I talked about asylum seekers fleeing war and violence. I hear Mr Van Dijk now talking about economic refugees. I said they wouldn't take place in our country. They cannot live with us, as Mr Van Dijk says, in that free house and get everything else for free. They're not getting status either. They have to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u33	The agreement was to remove the asylum delays as of 1 January. That deal didn't work out. So a promise has been broken. 7,000 cases still have to be done. The question is whether there is financial resources for this. But the question I would like to ask now is: do you acknowledge that this is not only extremely painful, but that it has also affected your credibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u34	That it's painful: yes. I wrote that in the letter I sent to the Chamber on 18 November. It's painful. It is particularly painful for asylum seekers. They have waited a long time and had hoped that they too would know where they stand at the end of the year. That didn't work. I'm very committed to making sure we can do this. I am indeed very disappointed. I also said that I've got a lot to say about it. I'm really sorry this didn't work out. But I made a commitment to make sure we could do this. There have been many setbacks. That's what I wrote in the letter to the Chamber. That's no excuse, but it does explain the fact that it's taking longer than I planned. What I'm really working on right now is to have eliminated the backlog of 7,000 people who would like to know what they're up to by mid 2021 at the latest. That was discussed with the IND and the task force. Let me rephrase. If I hadn't set up a task force, there'd be a lot more people waiting for a rash. The task force has clearly accelerated 15,350 cases. By the end of the year, we expect 8,000 cases to be completed. They wouldn't have been taken off if there hadn't been a task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u35	The Secretary of State is handy about my question. It was: what about your credibility? If I don't keep my end of the bargain, it's gonna affect my credibility. I think the Secretary of State is the same. It would adorn her if she recognized it. The question is, what's next? Are we getting a plan from the Secretary of State to get rid of the backlogs? I hear it's due in the middle of next year. That's another date. Any reason to be sceptical about that, of course. If it didn't work now, why would it work next time? Anyway, I have to do it with this. I'm asking the Secretary of State if that's a firm commitment. Have those delays really been eliminated in the middle of next year? We'll make a motion on that. The Chamber will record you on that. Well, we're gonna have to make a big deal about that today. Otherwise, in the first instance, the asylum seekers have nothing to hold on to. We need to get rid of those delays. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u36	I heard Mr Jasper van Dijk speak about a plan of action for the remaining 7 000. The task force and the IND are now working together on a plan of action. That will be sent to you. That is what we hope to have soon, so that we know how it is done. The commitment is really, once again, to make sure that we get it done. That's my ambition. The most important thing is that asylum seekers get a result so that they know where they stand. But then it is incredibly important that the IND is done with these enormous delays and that she can do her job without the burden of those delays. Because it sticks, it keeps pushing, and we have to get rid of it. I fully agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk. We have to get rid of that. A plan of action for the rest, yes. But we've also made meters. I would have made a lot more, but we also made meters, thanks to the task force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u37	Let me start with something positive. I think it's a good thing the Secretary of State says she wants the whole asylum chain vetted. I think that's wise. We also had this done in criminal law. That gave us interesting points of view. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State in a moment when she thinks that she has carried out that screening and that she is going to come to the Chamber with it. But I think that's a sensible step. What I am not positive about, then, is that I hear the Secretary of State say here: a plan of action is now being worked on. On April 1st, we set up a task force. After that, we've seen every time there was a kink in the cable, so we weren't on schedule. But the Secretary of State said: I aim to ensure that we have eliminated these more than 15,000 cases altogether. At the end of November, we will receive a letter from the Secretary of State that we will not go beyond half, maximum, and now the answer is: the services are working with a plan of action. That's impossible, isn't it? How can it be that this plan of action has not been under way since the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u38	The plan of action since the summer, in response to Mr Groothuizen, was to finish those 15,350 cases in December. That was the plan of action. At the beginning of September we wrote that there was a risk, but it was still thought that there would be a acceleration. Unfortunately, that acceleration didn't come. I noted that in the letter we sent to your Chamber on 18 November. We immediately thought of this: because we are not gonna make it, we just need to come up with a plan to make sure that we are gonna make it to 7,000 next year. That plan is being worked on, and it will soon be ready. But we couldn't draw up that plan until we saw: oh help, we're not gonna make it. There's been stuff lately that made us think there'd be an acceleration. But there hasn't been one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u39	It's not gonna get any better. I heard Mr Van Dam say the other day in a different context: it seems like some sort of administrative inability, college, what I hear here. How can it be that you're working on such a huge mountain of business, that at some point, around the summer, you see that there's 10,000 more on the shelf, and you don't start thinking: I might not make it, so I'm gonna make a plan to fix it if I don't make it. It is almost as if one keeps staring at the IND in the headlights of a car that comes running harder and harder. And nobody who then thinks: perhaps we should get off this road for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u40	I have just said that our commitment in August and July and for the summer was that we were going to make it. At the beginning of September it was: yes, yes. And the gear didn't come. I explained that in the letter of 18 November. That has indeed led to this: how are we going to solve this right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr. Groothuizen, one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u42	Yeah, this is my last question, too. I know the Secretary of State as someone who is critical of the functioning of the government. That's also a little bit of the approach she's chosen. I like that, too. She has often said: rules are rules, people have to abide by them, but the government must also abide by them. I am simply asking her: are you now satisfied with the performance of your own services in this dossier? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u43	I think that the services work very hard, and also work very carefully, because of course we have preferred that in this whole process of resolving the delays in the IND. It's a matter of care and care. Such care shall be exercised by the services. That's very important. Because we prefer due diligence, care is at the top of the list, we have noticed that it cannot be done faster in some cases and there have been delays in the approach to the task force. But the care of the services is present and the services are working hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u44	First Mr Voordewind, then Mrs Becker and Mrs Van Toorenburg and then Mr Van Ojik and Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u45	I agree with those colleagues who have expressed their deep disappointment at the fact that this Secretary of State has not made it and that all those people, who sometimes wait two years for an answer, still have to wait six months. I note that we are not even halfway there at the moment. The Secretary of State says we may be halfway by the end of the year, but we should wait and see. I really have to deal with all those asylum seekers that day in, day out, anxious again about when they get final. My question follows on from Mr Groothuizen's question on the screening of the asylum chain. In my term, I have mentioned a number of examples: from the Bahrain case and mention them. Can the Secretary of State look at the IND's decision-making in this light? I know that the Secretary of State replied in writing that a number of investigations are under way. I see, for example, significant. But can this also be focused on decision-making? There's an investigation into credibility. I understand that, and that is good, because the Chamber has asked for this before, but I am concerned about the wider context of the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u46	I understand that Mr Voordewind refers to my remark just now that I want an external independent investigation. That external independent research will certainly look into that. It looks at how the chain works and how decisions are made, because otherwise the research does not make such a crazy sense. There's gonna be a plan of action for that investigation. We will have to get right on that and indicate what we want to investigate, how we want to investigate it and how we are going to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mrs Becker and then Mrs Van Toorenburg. No, not Mrs. Becker? Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg. And after Mrs Van Toorenburg I go to Mr Van Ojik and Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u48	I do have a little bit of a problem with what the Secretary of State sometimes says in her introduction. I understand that she can't break iron with her hands, but if we want to send people back and we can't, then we just have a challenge. I also know that we are committed to all kinds of arrangements not to put people who cause nuisances in the house right away. But we also must not create the image as if something has really been done against oppressors. If I have congregations on the line, who are completely upset and who do not want an azc to be extended, then we just didn't do it right. If I get messages that we have reserved money and that it doesn't come to the destination, then we just didn't do it right. How are we going to ensure that the nuisance is dealt with seriously in the coming period? The powerlessness is just too great. I understand that the Secretary of State cannot solve everything, but ultimately the bill is paid by the ordinary citizens in Overloon. I'm just calling it a town.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u49	I want to deal with the nuisance part; I haven't gotten to it yet. I hope to be able to answer any questions raised by Mrs Van Toorenburg after I have discussed them. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u50	Fine, yeah, that's good. Mrs Buitenweg has already made up all her interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u51	I've heard that before, but I know how generous you always are, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u52	No, it's okay. It was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u53	We start counting again at zero! I would like to say to the Secretary of State that I would like to be confident that if she now says that she is going to make a plan of action and that it will be resolved in the middle of next year, it will succeed. But there are still a few questions to be answered. There's only one person responsible for the IND, and that's the Secretary of State. So it might be interesting to ask her what she thinks of the functioning of the IND, but she is the IND for us. That is why my question is: how can the Secretary of State send a letter to the mayors on 3 November, in which she says: it is still the intention to get rid of the 8,500 of the 15,000 cases that were still on the shelf before the end of the year? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u54	I thought I'd already given a clear answer to that. We had hoped and expected, I say, because you appeal to me as the boss of the IND; that is what I am about to say that there would be an acceleration after the letter of 7 September, in October. That acceleration, which was deployed in October, did not come for all kinds of reasons. For example, hearing in writing showed that this is not possible in some cases, because we have the utmost care at number one. That turned out to be in the course of time after we sent the letter to the commissioner and the mayors. Then came the results of what had happened to hearing in writing and how it went. When it appeared that this did not bring about at all what we had hoped would speed things up. And so there have been more cases. So that turned out to be more and more manifesting in the end. It has led us to write on 18 November with a great deal of pain in the heart: this is the state of affairs later on, at the end of December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u55	Let me honestly say that I find this very difficult to understand. The Secretary of State will set up a task force in March. She has ten months to do what she calls one of her greatest priorities every time in this Chamber. Now we're at three-quarters of the route. We have another month and a half to go, six, seven weeks to go, and then the Secretary of State, to realize what is her most important priority, would suddenly hear from her own IND: sorry, it's not only not gonna work, but we're not even halfway there yet. I have no reason to say that the Secretary of State is trying to pin something on me here, but she may also understand that that is difficult to understand. If this is your top priority, I think you ask the IND every day or every two days: 'Gooh, there were reports of chaos in August. I've told the Chamber six times I'm gonna make it. Are we still on course?' And then it turns out that four days before this budget debate, or on 18 November, the letter came suddenly: we still have 8,500.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u56	And yet I must give Mr Van Ojik the same answer again. That's how things turned out. You know the letter of September 7th. Then we said, "We're going into a gear." We see risks, but we're going into a gear, so we think we're gonna make it. This acceleration has not been achieved and the result is that at the end of December we have a stock of 7 000. Unfortunately, I have to stick to the same answer, because that is the situation. I can't do anything better and nothing better and nothing worse, because that's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u57	Then I would like to ask the Secretary of State how she is now looking at the political direction she has taken in this dossier, one of her most important priorities, this issue that is so important to so many asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u58	I am so sorry that there are so many delays in the IND, that I think that we should do something about it and that we should resolve it, because the asylum seekers are waiting for far too long. It is also a very heavy burden for the organisation itself, for the service, to constantly torment that this delay is there and is not resolved. I've had the ambition: we're gonna do it. I still have it, but I'm not gonna make it by the end of December. It is precisely by having that ambition that we have put pressure on it. We have tried this with the task force, which has really made new plans and taken a different approach, which has also brought a lot of results. We must not forget that this has also borne fruit as a result of the Significant report. It said that there was a lack of control and planning. The task force has also made qualitative gains, namely that there has been a change of direction, a change of planning, etc. But you don't say: Monday we say 'the task force', and Tuesday it's settled. It's all taken longer and more difficult cases have appeared than we thought. But we did think that we would make it at the end of the year, also because the commitment was the ambition to get rid of it, to get rid of the huge burden of 15,350 overdue cases; that is a disaster, just a disaster. That has not yet been achieved, but that task force has provided a lot of things that have been done away with, so that people do know where they stand. In addition, improvements have been made on the basis of control and planning. As far as the finances are concerned, Mr President, we also have to pay less in relation to the payment of periodic penalty payments, because there have been cases where there has been a periodic penalty payment obligation. They were taken off quickly, otherwise they were still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u59	For your information, the Secretary of State still needs to talk about nuisance, about the international dimension and about trafficking in human beings and prostitution. I am also saying this in connection with the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u60	Also a compliment to the Secretary of State for putting down the perspective of the uncertainty that 15,358 people have. It's important that we know that those are people who go crazy just like us when something lasts for a long time and you don't get an answer. I'm very fascinated by the following: I'm just trying to tell you this. The Secretary of State says we have to make a final score of 15.358. We're in a little car tuffing. That's about 100. But somewhere in September, we made an assumption. On the basis of plans, we know: that car is going to drive 300 once. It's called the gear. What was that based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u61	That was based on this. One: only then, as of September 1st, was the full staffing for the task force completed. This has also been delayed, for example by people who were ill, but also by training and so on. As of September 1st, the entire occupation was only completed. And then, for the first time, there was a phone call. In October there would be a written hearing. So new methods were used to ensure that we could achieve acceleration. That's what it was based on: we're going to achieve that acceleration; we have full capacity. We're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u62	But then I come to the conclusion that the Secretary of State has simply completely failed, because then it is implementation. Then it's something you can plan. Or you realize you can't plan it. Then you look at the risks. But then you don't report to the Chamber that you're gonna make 15,358 cases by the end of the year. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that on this point she has simply failed in the operational implementation of an important dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u63	I have just explained, to Mr Azarkan's question, how the fork was in September. I told you. I also said that in September, and also in October, we thought that the acceleration would come. This acceleration was shown not to have happened in November, for all kinds of reasons. But to tell you now that I failed... The answer is no. We have done our best to ensure it, and we have also been expecting it to work. This has not happened, and that has led, indeed, to a few thousand more cases to be done by the end of the year next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u64	Your last question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u65	That acceleration is not a natural disaster. That acceleration isn't something unforeseen. You can't make a policy like that, can you? Surely you can't, in consultation with the Chamber of 15,358 people, expect you to realize something and then say: yes, we had hoped for an acceleration? That's not a serious way of dealing with a file with that much weight, is it? You can't say again at the next thing you propose, namely to finish on 1 June: 'yes, there was no acceleration' or 'we didn't find the people'? That's not how it works, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u66	There has been so much experience. But I have also said in reply to other questions that care is number one. It's a big deal for us. That meant that some new methods couldn't have the effect...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u67	You know that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u68	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u69	It is easy for Mr Azarkan to say: you know that. A very good planning was made. It wasn't hope and expectation, it was a planning. But it has turned out that this acceleration could not be achieved in the end, precisely because we are so committed to this care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u70	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the chapter of trouble. As I said in my introduction, there is support in our society for people who need our protection and for asylum in our country. However, this support is undermined by a small group of asylum seekers who cause nuisance within and outside the reception sites or who are guilty of crime. These troublemakers are a heavy burden for the neighbors of azc's, for shopkeepers, for public transport workers and for many others, including, of course, employees in the migration chain and fellow residents in the azc's. This is unacceptable and the approach taken by this group is my absolute priority. I have therefore made every effort since I joined my office as Secretary of State to deal with nuisances. Mrs Becker has already referred to many measures that have been taken. Four special chain sailors have now been appointed to strengthen cooperation in the approach. Since 1 May, these countries have introduced the so-called summit X approach to capture, monitor and address the most persistent nuisances in unacceptable behaviour. Asylum applications from people who behave misbehaviour need to be dealt with more quickly. They can be temporarily placed in a time-out spot, in separate and sober shelter. In case of nuisance with very large impact, they are transferred to the special maintenance and surveillance site in Hoogeveen. In the case of criminal conduct, the police and the prosecution are called upon to impose criminal measures. I continue to work for a hard integrated approach to nuisance in cooperation with organisations in the migration chain, the municipalities, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. All available measures have been brought together in a so-called toolbox that has recently become available. Employees in the migration chain and the criminal justice chain can make use of this, but so can municipalities, retailers, public transporters and other stakeholders. In 2020, I made EUR 1 million available to help municipalities take local measures to reduce nuisances. That money is used for camera surveillance, extra boas and coaches. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether municipalities could still claim a financial contribution for such initiatives. I can say that what remains of the amount will be used as a subsidy for additional measures in dealing with nuisance, such as a concession in the financing of the shuttle bus between station Emmen and the registration centre in Ter Apel. In the meantime, together with the chain partners, the criminal justice chain, the municipalities and other interested parties, I am constantly looking for ways to further strengthen the integrated approach and limit the nuisance caused by asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u72	Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u73	Yeah, with the cube of nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u74	Okay. Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u75	I think it's important to stick to the facts in the Chamber. I get such disturbing messages, for example from Overloon. There's a lot of people on the top X list. They ring the bell and say: it's really just symptom control that we're dealing with. Nothing's gonna happen. Those people feel like they're totally overflowing. They really feel like they're in danger. I wonder if the urgency is sufficiently clear. What are we going to do seriously to ensure, for example, that people feel safe in their neighbourhoods in Overloon? 'Cause that's just leaving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u76	I know these concerns, and I think they are horrible, because that nuisance is really unacceptable. I am in constant contact with the various mayors and I am trying to do my utmost to ensure that we can provide what will reduce this nuisance. I'm also talking to the COA and the chain marines to make sure we can take action. We are really trying to look up every hole of what is possible in laws and regulations to ensure that we can deal with the troublemakers. If it's criminal, it's criminal. This means that there must be a report again, but that is not always the case. I understand that people don't always do that, but if it's criminal, it would help to deal with it criminally. We also have the surveillance location in Hoogeveen. I'm glad we have them, because that's where the most serious wheeldrivers can be sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u77	But people just don't feel it. That is the reality that we must face together. This is what I hear all day, but I can't explain it anymore. If I go back to Brabant later, I'm gonna get that whole shit over me again. Why? Because they say there's a chain marine and we have a special location. But the next day, they're just murmuring through the villages. We know that many countries in Europe are getting really tired of this. We know how difficult it is to go forward with these people and that it really undermines the support for all those people who have rightly knocked on our door. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give it real priority, including in the European context, to come up with serious measures to really grab this troublemaker by the head and butt, to secure them and to leave them stuck for as long as possible until they can get out of the country. I'm sick of this shit! I can't explain it anymore to people who won't even let their kids go to school in Brabant!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u78	I recognize the stories Mrs Van Toorenburg tells, and I also hear it from the mayors. I'm really trying to do everything about it. But there's one thing I can't do: lock these people up like that. For that we do have the surveillance location in Hoogeveen. We also look together with the COA at how we can arrange everything as tight as possible. And I will certainly bring it up at European level, as Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked, because it is not just the Netherlands that suffers from this. It sounds really bad to say, but they're just groups traveling around from one country to another. When they notice that things are starting to get a bit annoying in one country, they travel on to another country. You don't want to mention all that too much, but I know you do. I also know that, with colleagues in the European context, we need to look at whether we can do something more about this. Because in this way, the support for those who really need our protection and fled war and violence is also gone. And when the support is gone, that party isn't gonna happen either. That's very bad. The fact that residents no longer dare to go out on the street at night and that another break-in or a store is being robbed is terrible. My commitment, the commitment of the COA and my ministry, in the short term, is to make sure that we help as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u79	Yeah, the second headache file. First the delays and now the troublemakers. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg: it cannot be explained to people who live in that area! That intimidation, that violence, that theft, and so on, it's horrible. If one thing is killing for the shelter of refugees, then this is it. So you have to find the real solution, and that is, of course, the return of troubled, oppressive asylum seekers. But it also completely fails. In fact, if the Secretary of State wants to do something, for example with Morocco, she gets the door on her face and they say: no, we don't need it, you keep them yourself, these oppressive asylum seekers. You can't do this. France and Spain manage to make agreements with Morocco, but the Netherlands do not. Now, once and for all, can you explain and resolve this? Can you come up with a plan very soon, even before the end of this year, on how you are going to realize the return of these people? Otherwise, all credibility will be lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u80	Return is an incredibly important part of the whole asylum policy we have. Without a return, the support will disappear. I fully agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk. That's right. At the last meeting of the Ministers of Asylum of the European Union on 13 November, in which we discussed the European Commission's plans for a new asylum system in Europe, I noticed that on one issue all Member States, whatever Member State, agree on return. Return is the priority in all countries. All countries have a hard time with that. It's tricky. I must say that as far as the Netherlands is concerned... we have the Service Return and Departure. It is relative and it is also true that those who mirror themselves to another mirror themselves softly. I would like to admit all this to Mr Jasper van Dijk, but it is true that the Netherlands is in the top five Member States with the best returns. Again, it should be much, much, much better, but it is, even despite covid. Everyone knows that the borders have been closed by covid over the past few months, that aircraft do not fly and that all kinds of countries make demands on people who come in. That's made it a lot harder. Nevertheless, the Return and Departure Service has managed to bring back a reasonable number of people. So the stakes are very high. The results of our Return and Departure Service are reasonable again, relatively speaking. Only, of course, they should be much better. I would like to admit that to Mr Jasper van Dijk. That is also my frustration; I am happy to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr Emiel van Dijk and then Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u82	All these solutions that we hear here today, from a toolbox to those goat woollen socks officials you dare call chain marines, are all symptom control and do not make a fuss at all. You state yourself: we don't really want to name it too much, but they're just traveling gangs of criminals. And what does the VVD do with that? Then what does the Secretary of State do with that? She's gonna keep giving them a place to stay. I really can't get to that with my head. On the one hand, it hurts me to say, but we do agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA that we should pick them up and fasten them for as long as possible, until they can be deported. On the other hand, the positive note is that Mrs Van Toorenburg did not agree with herself, because we have tabled a motion with exactly the same aim, in which the government was asked to arrest and hold criminal asylum seekers for as long as they can be deported. That motion was denied by this Secretary of State. The VVD and the CDA voted against it. So what kind of crocodile tears are these from the colleagues here and what kind of symptom control is this? The fact that the Secretary of State refuses to do anything about this shows enormous unwillingness and a little dedain for the Dutch who are dealing with nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u83	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mrs Becker would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u84	Yes. We know that Mr Emiel van Dijk is of the firm words, but I hear him now, as in previous debates, a number of times about the chain sailors saying that they are 'goat woollen socks' officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u85	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u86	These are people who are not part of this debate, who are not here and who hold a certain position for the Minister and the Secretary of State. I think that we should not turn people who cannot defend themselves in this house and do their job in the chain into 'goat woollensock officials'. That's what I wanted to say. I hope that Mr Emiel van Dijk will be able to distance himself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u87	No, I'm not gonna do that. And perhaps Mrs Becker of the VVD will be able to respond to our arguments in substance, rather than beg about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u88	'Gibe woolen socks' used to be a compliment to some parties, I remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u89	It seems as if Mrs Becker and I have had some sort of magical radiation, because the first thing I would have liked to answer to Mr Emiel van Dijk is that I do not appreciate the fact that hardworking officials are disqualified in this way. For Mr. Emiel van Dijk brings those 'goat wool socks' as a disqualification. You can also see it very positively, but that is not the way it was meant by Mr Emiel van Dijk. Those people work hard and work in very difficult conditions. And they can't defend themselves here. That's what I do for them. So Mrs Becker took the words out of my mouth. Then there is something else in the direction of Mr Emiel van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u90	Yeah, the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u91	He says we can't catch anyone. Well, we have laws and regulations. We are a rule of law and we do have laws and regulations to which we adhere. At the same time, we are ensuring that those who are asking for asylum here who are not actually entitled to it, the safe people, go through the procedure as quickly as possible. In four weeks, they'll need the results and they'll know they have to leave, and then there'll be no shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u92	The Secretary of State rightly says that return, return and return are the keys to a successful asylum policy. That's separating the sheep from the goats, so to speak. For this, it is crucial that the countries of origin have a willingness to take their own citizens back, and there is an important bottleneck. This is not adequately regulated in the EU Migration Pact. Can I ask the Secretary of State if she would be willing to make a commitment to at least settle this in a binding manner in the EU migration pact?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u93	The Secretary of State is about to come to the international dimension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u94	I am very happy that Mr Bishop is coming with this. I also said just now that all the Member States showed on 13 November that they believe that the return should be well arranged. There is only one point they all agree on, and that is this point. But I would like to take advantage of Mr Bishop's appeal to say that again very well in the discussions we have on the new European asylum proposals. And as far as it is possible for me to force it, I will, but at least I'm going to do my very best, because that's what it's all about. If we don't get that done, we're not gonna make much progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u95	Thank you for this solid line. And in order to support that, we will be tabling a motion in the near future which underlines once again that a migration pact without binding and binding return arrangements is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u96	Good. That will come in the second term. Continue, Secretary of State... I hear now that a motion supporting the policy is superfluous. That's right, but okay! The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u97	Mr. Chairman. I come to the chapter on the international dimension. This is also in line with what Mr Bishop has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u98	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u99	The European dimension is strongly involved in asylum policy. The European rules are the framework for this. A better, more efficient European system is good for the Netherlands, especially if it contributes to strengthening the capacity of countries around us to better manage asylum and irregular migration flows in the EU in particular. For this, my predecessor and I have made our efforts during this cabinet period. In the same way as the Cabinet pursues an integrated migration agenda, there is also an increasing need for an integrated, comprehensive European asylum and migration policy. Much has happened since the Dutch Presidency in 2016. On behalf of the Netherlands, a call has been made for the strengthening of the external borders. There is more monitoring and more attention to the implementation of commitments made. The fight against illegal secondary migration in the Schengen area has been explicitly on the agenda. It is also clearly recognised that the internal and external dimensions of asylum and migration policies are closely interlinked. This is much needed to achieve our ambitions, such as better reception in the region, less irregular migration to the EU and more return from the EU. Steps have already been taken under the guidance of the previous Commission. At the end of September, the current European Commission published a new series of proposals on asylum and migration. Many of the key elements in this are also in line with the commitment of the Cabinet, namely the introduction of a border procedure at EU external borders to quickly distinguish between disadvantaged and more promising asylum seekers, increased attention to improving return, with the EU as a strong factor, broad partnerships with third countries, using visas and other tools to promote migration cooperation, promoting the use of legal migration opportunities and focusing on the position and treatment of vulnerable groups. This provides a solid basis to address the shortcomings of the current asylum system and to gain more control over irregular migration. That is why we will be constructive in the discussions. However, we will remain critical, including on the clarity and practical feasibility of the rules, especially with regard to the commitment to return. In parallel with the European Commission's new proposals, the revision of the Return Directive is under way. Return, including forced return, is a crucial part of an effective migration policy. Mr Bishop rightly pointed out in his contribution in the first term that the detention of aliens is an essential part of this. In these negotiations, the Netherlands is therefore committed to enforcement and the possibility of placing people in detention, in particular in relation to nuisances and criminal illegal immigrants. My commitment is aimed at a better system in the Netherlands and in other Member States, in which all Member States assume their responsibilities and the implementation of structural European improvements makes it possible to offer structural solidarity. Although the Cabinet remains of the opinion that relocation should mainly be part of a structural mechanism, a special situation had arisen after the fires at Lesbos. This led to the exceptional approval of the relocation of 100 vulnerable persons. We are working hard on this now, together with Greece and the Commission. Mr Van Ojik asked about the timetable. Carefulness is of course paramount, but the aim is to realize the first arrivals to the Netherlands before Christmas. I have good hope that will work. Developments are fast at the moment, thanks to the commitment of the Greek services, the IND and the COA and all other employees involved. This morning, this morning! I was informed by the relocation mission that the first interviews were completed in Athens and that 50 people were selected. It concerns families with underage children. The interviews with amvs will take place at the end of this week and if necessary during the follow-up mission in the first half of December. I could not have mentioned this in the written answers last night because I did not hear it until this morning. The logistics preparations are now being made in collaboration with IOM to ensure that at least these 50 people are here within a few weeks. Their first reception in the Netherlands is also provided for. The COA is now in conversation with different municipalities about housing. In doing so, I must continue to take account of the developments concerning covid in Greece and the Netherlands. The Dutch commitment is aimed at assisting Greece in implementing structural improvements in the areas of reception, return and asylum. A concrete example is the cooperation I set up in this context with my Greek colleague earlier this year. Work is under way to set up three shelters for single minors. The first location has been put into operation. Fourteen underage girls including three babies/children have been received and supervised since the beginning of October. A girl has now moved to an EU Member State, where she is reunited with family members. The second reception site is expected to be put into operation next week. The aim is to have the third reception site ready by the end of 2020. Nidos is also working closely with Greek colleagues to improve the Greek custody system for single minors. Such initiatives fit well with the Commission's call for Member States to support each other to improve national systems. Ms Becker added value to a national migration crisis plan and further suggested the creation of a mini-Schengen. Several elements are reflected in the government's integrated migration agenda. This agenda also aims, for example, to make the Dutch migration chain crisis-proof, to organise more flexible, to reduce reception for people with low chances of asylum and to strengthen both our borders and the European external borders. On these issues, we are moving forward with like-minded Schengen States. I also see similarities in other areas. So I see this as an encouragement to hold on to this course. I would also point out that at the beginning of 2021 the European Commission will present a Schengen strategy to further strengthen the Schengen area. There are also mechanisms already in place to act nationally in the event of crises at both the external borders and the internal borders of the Netherlands. This happened during the high influx of 2015 and 2016 and during the recent corona outbreaks. I share Mrs Becker's view that we need to stay focused on these issues. That was the bit international.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u100	Good news the three houses can be filled before Christmas. I also hear from the Secretary of State that she wants the first appointments to take place before Christmas, but in that I hear the word 'first' very well. In the previous debate, I heard the Secretary of State say that these must be people with status. Why did the Secretary of State add this additional criterion to the selection processes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u101	It's nice when these people have status. They've already been selected; those 50 are coming. I just said that. They're coming for Christmas. If they have a status, they won't get into the asylum chain. And that makes it easier, because they're not an extra load. Also, you don't have to say at some point: gosh, there are 50 of them, but now some of them still don't seem to be eligible for a status. Because then they would have to go back to Greece or something. That is why we have said that we want people with a status, and that status has been granted in Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u102	Then, of course, they are people who have probably been in Greece for two years, because they have had to go through the whole asylum process. The question was: can we in the Netherlands include 100 people from Lesbos or the Greek islands that are now in crisis? Now I see that these are probably not the people who came from the Greek islands who were in trouble after the fire, but that these are people who have already gone through the whole procedure and who were probably already ready for placement in Greece. Maybe the Secretary of State can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u103	I've got a lot of strangers to work with right now. Mr Voordewind asks all kinds of questions: was it perhaps already this or that or sister or something? There is a mission of the IND and the COA; they are still in Greece. They have selected 50 vulnerable persons with the IOM and with the Greeks, bearing in mind what was agreed in the Netherlands. Those vulnerable persons must meet the criteria agreed in the agreement made on those 100 people. So I'm assuming it's exactly the way it's supposed to be. I'm not gonna speculate, like "maybe they've been there for two years" or "maybe they're coming from somewhere else." It's 50 vulnerable people, and that's what it's about. Once again, the COA and the IND have taken great account of this; they have taken account of what has been agreed on the reception of 100 vulnerable persons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr Jasper van Dijk. I'm going to see how many questions you have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u105	Yes. I ask the question, and you look at it afterwards... no. What the Secretary of State says now is quite striking. There was a fire in Moria. 13,000 people on the street. After many quilts and roads it was decided that the Netherlands, yes, would record 100 people of that 13,000. And now all of a sudden we hear that these must be 100 people with a status. I therefore agree with Mr Voordewind that this is remarkable. We were going to help the Greeks bring 100 people here, including 50 children, to relieve the burden on the Greek authorities. Then it's crazy to add this demand now, isn't it? Does that explain why it doesn't work out and why it does in Germany, but it still hasn't been done in the Netherlands? Would you like to delete that claim?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u106	And that was your last question. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr Jasper van Dijk suddenly makes it clear that 100 people must all have this status. What I was talking about was that the 50 vulnerable people who are currently selected have status. This concerns vulnerable families with underage children. They have a status and they're coming here. The other 50 are vulnerable, single minors. I didn't talk about that at all. It has been agreed that they will be 14 years or younger, but I did not say what their status is. Not at all. So we shouldn't make the confusions bigger than they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u108	Please continue. Don't look at Mr. Van Ojik, because then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u109	No, I'm not looking at Mr. Van Ojik. I'm about to start on human trafficking and prostitution, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u110	Last question, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u111	I would like to ask the Secretary of State about Libya. But she might do that in the last block. It was a little bit in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u112	In the context of human trafficking and prostitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u113	Trafficking in human beings, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u114	Yeah, but you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u115	Yeah, you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u116	In the written procedure, the Secretary of State spoke about trafficking in human beings and prostitution in Libya.... Anyway, maybe I can just ask my question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u117	Yeah, go ahead, we're done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u118	I had to think about it because the block was international about meetings, negotiations and so on in Brussels. That's important, even if it doesn't make any sense. But all kinds of things are happening on behalf of the European Union. One of them is support for the Libyan Coast Guard. That Libyan Coast Guard picks up people with our support, or intercepts people, and brings them back to Libya. There they come into one of the eleven detention centres where there is systematic torture and where sexual violence is very common. The question, which I have been asking for three years, is whether it is still justified that we should cooperate with European money. So I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if she thinks so. If she does not, will she argue in Brussels that we cannot continue to support the Libyan Coast Guard as long as those camps are not closed, because that makes us complicit in some way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr President, would it be okay if I answered this question in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u120	Yeah, I'm fine. Let's move on to the trafficking of human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u121	Now I'm going to human trafficking and prostitution. Trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious forms of organised crime. Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van der Graaf have already pointed that out and I fully agree with them. The Netherlands also has victims of trafficking in human beings. Often it is about sexual exploitation, not rarely in the form of forced prostitution by minors. On 13 July, the bill regulating sex work was referred to the Council of State for an opinion. Among other things, the bill provides for a uniform licensing requirement for the entire sex sector, an increase in the age of prostitution to 21 years and a criminalisation of profit-making assistance in illegal prostitution or, more prosaic, the ban on pimping. I expected to be able to offer you this bill shortly after the summer recess. Unfortunately, that was not possible, I say in the direction of your colleagues Van der Graaf, Kuik and Bishop. I have not yet received the opinion of the Council of State. I deeply regret this, as I know how important the bill is. As Mrs Kuik rightly said, trafficking in human beings is one of the forms of crime that does not come to light quickly. It's cases that are often hard to prove. Mrs Van der Graaf said that very clearly. Victims are usually afraid to make a statement. The key to a successful approach is therefore good signaling and intensive cooperation between many parties. Good steps have been taken to this end, including the Interdepartmental Programme Collaboration Against Trafficking in Human Beings. The basis for the approach is strengthened and widened, thanks to your Chamber. Following the Segers/Asscher motion, 10 million additional funds were transferred to the AVIM. The first FTE additions to teams will take place in the coming months. Trafficking in human beings is one of the four priorities in the Security Agenda. Mrs Van der Graaf pointed out that in recent years the number of suspects arraigned for trafficking in human beings has always been lagging behind the target. One of the first results now is that the number of OM suspects is rising gently. I'm holding on to that ambition. In order to be able to better deal with perpetrators, we are now exploring Article 273f Criminal Law. I look at the possibilities to make this complex article clearer and therefore more useful in its implementation. We are also committed to combating trafficking in human beings in an international context. That's what we do with the placement of extra police liaisons. In Europol, we also support the EMPACT THB and thus European cooperation in detection. This is how we tackle international and national trafficking in human beings. I will continue to work in the remaining months of my term of office to improve the social position of sex workers and to strengthen the approach to trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u122	Mr. Chairman. In my speech, I referred to the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings. It indicates: I do not have enough budget to carry out my duties. The written reply states that the last annual evaluation of the National Rapporteur concludes that there are no major gaps. But we have a letter from the National Rapporteur saying: 'Unfortunately, the resources made available to me by the JenV Ministry do not offer me sufficient capacity to carry out the already planned activities.' That depends on the workload and the quality they want to deliver. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? This is an important person, an important institution in making human trafficking visible. He says, "I can't do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u123	With Mrs Kuik, I fully underline the importance of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings. What the National Rapporteur does to his people is incredibly important. With a small team they do a lot of work. Soon we'll have another one of those evaluations. I'll wait for that evaluation. As a result, we will see how we proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u124	I understand that this evaluation is coming, but the message from the rapporteur on trafficking in human beings is, of course, already very clear. Let me take another point with me. It's about the chat function. We want human trafficking to become visible and the threshold for victims to report is lower. Such a chat function is already in four places. That is regional and with all different jars arranged. On this point, too, the written answer is that this offer of assistance is a task of municipalities, not of the government. That's strange, because trafficking and exploitation are a national problem, right? Does the Secretary of State, in her role as a trigger in this major programme, see it as an assignment to look with the various ministries how, and to work to ensure that this nationwide chat function can be developed in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u125	I'm committed to that: yes, I am. I have also committed myself to a trial that we are going to do with different municipalities in the field of trafficking in human beings. I've managed to get other ministries to pay for it. My own ministry pays for it, but also other ministries. So I'm committed to that. I'll work with the other ministries for the chat function, but it's not like I can put money on the table. That chat function is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u126	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u128	Then we've come to this... Mrs. Becker, I thought so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u129	I think I had a few interruptions left. The Secretary of State has dealt with a few points in the written reply, but not yet in the oral reply. I'd like to clarify a few factual questions. For example, she indicates that she wants to see how demonstrable departure can be better included in the report, and how effective the Return and Departure Service is to realise demonstrably departure. She's gonna see if the report can be adjusted accordingly. Could she please tell us when we will get a ruling as a chamber on this and when it will happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u130	I'm gonna record with the Return Service as soon as possible and get out of here about how we do that. I hope that we will be able to clarify this at the beginning of the year. I can say 'before the end of the year' for everything now, but the end of the year is so close that it would be very short. At the beginning of the year, we need to be able to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u131	Then I had another question. We have also asked questions about men who repeatedly bring a marital partner to the Netherlands, while there is oppression. The Secretary of State has indicated that, as a particular person does this over and over again, the IND can investigate whether there is a marriage of convenience. The IND can do that. Can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of the extent to which the IND makes use of that possibility? I imagine the IND is pretty busy. How often is there reason for the IND to suspect and act on this? Then, as a Chamber, we can assess whether this is an effective instrument, or whether we should use other means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u132	I can ask the IND to register in the future how many times that happens, but I don't think it's a good idea to ask them to do that afterwards. That means that all kinds of archives need to be searched. I don't think that's a good idea. But I can ask the IND to keep track of how often that happens. I think it's useful to do that. I could ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u133	Thank you for the commitment. This is going well, Mr. Chairman. Then the subsidy scheme for NGOs to encourage departure. We have asked questions about this, because the scheme does not seem to be effective. The Secretary of State says: it is useful, because this arrangement will help us to work better with NGOs and it will also lead to acceptance by NGOs to get rid of the taboo of departure. We are quite critical of that. I wonder what such support may cost if an arrangement is ultimately not efficient. When is the Secretary of State going to inform us again about the new subsidy granted to NGOs and how efficient it will be in the future, so that we as a Chamber can keep our finger on the pulse on this issue? The VVD would actually want a result obligation. We would really like to consider whether we should not let the IOM do this entirely. But in order to assess that, we need to evaluate first. When will there be a new evaluation? Is that really two years from now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u134	Is it okay if I answer this in second term? I need to see when exactly this is planned. But it is true that some NGOs have contacts that can help to promote return. Mrs Becker is talking about an obligation to produce results. There is, however, in the sense that if there really is no results, account must be taken of the reduction of the subsidy or, if necessary, of the abolition of the subsidy, in the worst case scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u135	Okay. One last one. The GDPR and the troublemakers. The cabinet will also investigate this, because the GDPR is in some situations in the way. For example, if you want to share a top X list with the mayor, or if you want to share information about a potentially dangerous status holder with the municipality where the status holder is placed. It seems very important to us that this investigation should take place. The cabinet is considering agreements on this issue, but also possible amendments to legislation. Again, the unexpected question: when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u136	Adaptation of legislation seems to me to be a long shot, so to speak. The GDPR is in itself important legislation. It is now being examined to what extent we have the opportunity to share data and what does fit within the rules we have before. But I understand Mrs. Becker wants a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u137	I don't need to know exactly when we can expect a new law. However, the Cabinet indicates that it will explore the need for new legislation. When can we expect that reconnaissance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u138	At this point, too, I will check the state of play. Then I come in second term with an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u139	Fine. Then Mrs. Van der Graaf. And also Mr Bishop. Mrs. Van der Graaf first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u140	Thanks to the Secretary of State for her conviction and perseverance to hold on to the goals of ultimately bringing the traffickers to justice. I have the impression, although it is now a matter of priorities on the security agenda, that behind the scenes there is a certain amount of stringency in order to use sufficient capacity, including with the police. So I wonder what the Secretary of State and the Cabinet need to ensure that actual capacity is allocated to the police and the public prosecutor in order to give priority to these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u141	I say to Mrs Van der Graaf that we are now working very hard on the commitment of the 10 million from the Segers/Asscher motion. The first FTEs are now recruited and trained. That is the real impulse that we can achieve. I think that we should be well behind this and ensure that these people are trained quickly and properly. That way we can make that commitment. I am pleased that we are ensuring that the target we have set has been maintained. We will put a lot of strength into it and do everything we can to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u142	I still have a question about the exit programmes for women in the sex sector. It is intended to be done in consultation with all kinds of organisations, says the Secretary of State. Okay, that makes sense, only you have different types of organizations. You also have organisations that focus more on making sex work socially acceptable. These exit programmes are precisely about support for job search, housing search and so on. Can the Secretary of State undertake that the exit programmes are aimed precisely at cooperation with such organisations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u143	The exit programmes aim to ensure that a sex worker who wants to leave that sector can have a different kind of job in social life. That is what the exit programmes are aimed at and are also being worked on. I went to one of those programs myself. The commitment is clear: to ensure that those who want out of the sex business can have a civil job in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u144	That's good to hear. But we too, of course, have our contacts. We are getting the signal that this first type of organisation is still trying to benefit from the funds under the exit programmes. That is why we called for clear frameworks at DUUP so that they could not be abused. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u145	I can tell Mr Bishop that we are and will be alert to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u148	In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. But maybe I'm too fast. Do you need a short suspension before we start the second term? I see it; otherwise it gets a bit panicky with those motions. Shall we make it five minutes? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u149	Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The budget is nothing, and the answer to my questions is nothing. I am a fucking Member of the largest opposition party, but the Minister has not answered a single question from me in the first term here in plenary. It's obviously election time. Luckily, I have a second term, because this is what I was expecting. This happened last year. Mr. Chairman. First, the capacity of the police, the usual list. That's no surprise. What continues to amaze me is that it keeps being said between the nose and the lips that 17,000 agents will be pouring out in the coming years. The main reason for this is the retirement age. But you've seen that coming years before, haven't you? Well, then you anticipate that, don't you? Rutte II did that by cutting down 3,000. Rutte III, this minister, is building up a task for too tight a police capacity for the day-to-day operation and is thus also ignoring this huge elephant in the room. Nevertheless, the Minister insists that the district agents are in the capillaries of society and that proximity is central. That's what it says on page 11 of the explanatory memorandum. That is good, but the PVV would like the citizens to experience it as well. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that proximity to a police station plays a crucial role in the sense of security of citizens and this proximity is also necessary for the provision of services by the police to citizens;]] [[considers that a police station is also necessary for police officers to be able to do their work as efficiently as possible;]] [[believes that police stations should return to the neighbourhoods in order to ensure that the police are actually in 'the capillaries of society';]] [[calls on the government to ensure that police stations return to the neighbourhoods, to stop the route of closing police stations started in 2015 and to re-manage police stations that are still in place as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the diversity pursuit of the Corps leadership. In his written replies, the Minister says the following. The code of conduct on lifestyle and neutrality is very clear: no visible expressions of beliefs or beliefs. There's no discussion about this, not even with the Chief Constable. But that discussion seems to exist with the deputy chief of police. Whether she's doing this at the police chief's request or on her own, I don't care. But she's clearly putting the minister in his shirt. Because on a public debate evening on 2 September last, this was the first statement that was presented: it must be possible to wear a headscarf as an agent in the future. I therefore recommend to the Minister that she read her quotes about this during this evening. It is clearly heading in a different direction, contrary to the code of conduct. Mr. Chairman. The PTSD issue. The Minister left open the possibility that, on the basis of the new office system, a different calculation would be made, because of the fact that, for the purposes of calculating intangible compensation, the so-called pain money, is now connected to what is common in society. As far as my group is concerned, this is wrong, because police work is a high-risk profession and it goes far beyond what is customary in society. The Minister therefore allows that for cases started under the old system, pain money will suddenly be recovered where it has already been granted and sometimes already paid. That is what my group thinks, as I said yesterday, is the ultimate example of poor employment. I had hoped that in the aftermath of his ministry the minister would help the agents with PTSD instead of leaving them in the cold. My group will do everything in its power to help them. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the light of the contours of the new system, individual interviews with (former) police officers with regard to who has been identified and recognised as being subject to PTSS (post-traumatic stress syndrome) are conducted in the context of the handling of the material and intangible damage suffered by them;]] [[noting that the Minister has promised that these matters will be dealt with generously;]] [[Notes, however, that in a number of cases the compensation for the intangible damage (smart money) already granted and paid to the (former) employee is offset with the result that the (former) employee has to partially repay this compensation;]] [[considers that this is reprehensible, undesirable and possibly legally incorrect;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that in all outstanding PTSD files initiated under the old system and in which the pain payment has already been granted, this allocated pain payment does not (in part) have to be repaid by the relevant (former) employee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u152	Following an earlier response from the Minister to a question from my group during the previous debate on the corona measures, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost 500 threats were reported to the Team of Threatened Politicians (TBP) this year, where there were only 393 in total last year;]] [[noting that the Team of Threatened Politicians, housed in the Hague Unit, consists of only nine people who do a great job but cannot handle this amount of reports with this capacity;]] [[noting that since 2018 there has also been talk of the possibility of a police-level 'team-threatened journalists' (analog to the team-threatened politicians in The Hague unit);]] [[calls on the government, in this context, to provide funds for the expansion of the Team of Threatened Politicians, so that the desired enlargement does not undermine the current police capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Helder and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mrs Yeşilgöz has a brief question on the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u154	Sure. We share this. So I do not have any substantive questions; on the contrary, I welcome the motion. Only, where do we get the resources? I told you in my input, I'm looking for money. There's a motion now, so I'd just like to know the cover so I can take a look at that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u155	Then I do what Mrs Yeşilgöz does sometimes. Let me put that question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u156	Please continue. Mrs Yeşilgöz, I hear you are calling for a point of order. I do not think this is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u157	Whatever you want to mention, Mr President, I do not think I have ever said to the cabinet: find money. I would have said it many times, that's true. But that's how we do it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u158	It's okay. Proceed, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u159	As a member of an opposition party, let me be the first. Let me break that rule. I'm trying anyway. Finally, organized crime. The minister says: the broad offensive, with the motto 'rolling up, picking up and preventing', is the basis for the coming years. About picking up, raising the odds of getting caught, but not a word. Still not or again not? I'll give you the gift. The Minister doesn't say anything about that. The Minister replied to the question about the increase in penalties. If you really don't remember the answer, you put the words in a Member's mouth that the mocromafia was caused by the judiciary. What a fool, and what a ignore of the fact that the criminals choose the Netherlands partly because of the low penalty. Within the police and the Strategic Board Undermining it is acknowledged. Unfortunately, the Minister remains blind to it. The minister keeps it to tough language and the motto 'roll up, pick up and prevent'. Hollow words. He prefers to talk about the programme 'Hapot Strong', in which young children aged 7 to 8 are taught by a police officer about organized crime. My grandfather, as a motorcycle cop, gave traffic lessons to kids that age, and two generations later, they're taught about violence and drug crime. So you see how you can slide off with soft policy. I said this minister who in his booklet called me Rafels to the rule of law 'the lawyer of discrimination'. I certainly won't miss him. I look forward to the elections in March 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u160	Thank you, Mrs Helder. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Major problems in the area of Justice and Security have not been resolved with this budget. That's why I'm trying to correct it with the next two motions. Then I've got a third. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the low penalties imposed on violent and sex offenders undermine the punitive function of punishment and do not adequately protect society;]] [[Whereas criminals convicted for the second time of a violent or sexual crime should also be punished twice as severely;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that violence and sexual crimes are automatically subject to double penalties;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u162	The second motion also ensures that there is a somewhat stricter, heavier penal climate in the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the case of rape, the directive of the sentence to be imposed by judges is only 24 months in prison;]] [[Considering that many rapists repeatedly strike again and make new victims;]] [[Whereas this should be avoided by removing them from society for as long as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that rapists are always sentenced to a minimum of 20 years in prison,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u163	And then the third motion. It actually ensures greater transparency and proper implementation of Article 68 of the Constitution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has elevated the painting, keeping away and cleaning away of information to an artwork;]] [[noting that members of parliament are entitled to all public sector information on the basis of Article 68 of the Constitution and journalists and citizens on the basis of the Public Administration Act, unless the provision is contrary to the interests of the State;]] [[calls on the Government to provide MPs, journalists and stakeholders with transparent and fair public sector information requested within the prescribed time limits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. We have heard that there is agreement from the left to the right that it is a huge mess in the area of asylum and migration. We have a fine motion to ask Morocco to finally cooperate and to help this Secretary of State to send back annoying Moroccans, safe people who cause a lot of misery here. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to impose sanctions against Morocco for refusing to take back their own nationals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Emiel van Dijk and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u165	Then there's a motion on Syrians. There are 44,000 Syrians with temporary residence permits in the Netherlands. We understand from the cabinet's letter that Syria is largely safe. IS is no longer in possession of territory, so it seems to us wise to send those Syrians back to their country so that they can help rebuild their country, so that we have empty azc's here, so that rental homes etc. et cetera et cetera et cetera. That is a win-win situation for the people who are on the waiting list here and for the people who will eventually be able to return to their own country. There's nothing more fun than that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to withdraw the temporary residence permits of the 44,000 Syrians residing in the Netherlands and to return these people to safe Syria, where they can help rebuild their country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u166	And then there is a motion which is actually only logical, but which unfortunately has so far been rejected by, among other things, the VVD. I'm gonna bring it in one more time anyway. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to criminalise illegality and to return all foreigners illegally staying in the Netherlands to their country of origin or their own region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u167	Finally, the final motion. It is also the most logical, because mopping with the tap open does not help. We have to close the borders. That's the only way you can put things in order within your own country. All you do out there is keep daddy and wet and don't fuck with me. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to close the Dutch borders to asylum seekers and regular migrants from Islamic countries in order to prevent migrants from entering our country uncontrolled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Emiel van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u168	I have a question about the sanctions against Morocco, which, as Mr Van Dijk himself said, does not take back annoying Moroccans. Are those trade sanctions? What does he mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u169	As far as I am concerned, these are all sanctions, from trade sanctions to the withdrawal of flying rights and kicking out the country of the Moroccan ambassador. How creative the Secretary of State is in that, I leave it to her, but everything is welcomed by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u170	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u171	That is, of course, very easy to say. The practice is that we export 1.1 billion euros to Morocco. Mr Van Dijk's supporters also benefit from this. We're bringing in about half a billion, so that means we have a positive balance of trade of about half a billion to 600 million on balance. So that means that we have to start explaining to our farmers: none of this is going to happen. Because we export a lot to Morocco. How are we going to explain that to our farmers, Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u172	We're going to explain that very easily. We're gonna evict all those nasty and troublesome Moroccans out of the country who are now causing nuisance and crime. That takes police commitment, because shopkeepers are robbed and women are intimidated. But they get their freedom back, they get their security back and they keep their goods that are now being stolen from their stores by troublesome Moroccans. We have had the debate on this here. That is a very good motivation to look at sanctions. I leave it to the Secretary of State to handle it creatively. That does not mean that we have to throw away 1 billion in trade surplus, which you are referring to, at once, but we certainly need to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u173	How many motions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u174	This is it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u175	Okay, thank you. Oh, Mrs. Helder has a small point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u176	Mr President, I forgot to mention that my third motion was co-signed by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u177	We're gonna change it. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD. Mrs. Helder, how can you forget Mr. Wilders!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the cabinet, and to my portfolio in particular, of course, thanks to the Secretary of State for her answers. Our free and safe society is worth defending. We must therefore work towards a stricter European asylum system, as I said in the first term. In the meantime, however, we must also be ready to keep our country free and safe. I welcome the answers from the Secretary of State. It also says that it is necessary to recognise the need to strengthen Schengen and to do so with other countries. At the beginning of 2021, a Schengen strategy will be launched by the European Commission, according to the Secretary of State. I'm very curious. I hope that the cabinet will keep the option of a mini-Schengen in mind and explore it with other Member States. Furthermore, as a country, I think it is right that we have a clear understanding of how, if necessary, we can also keep a grip on our borders. But in order to strengthen all of this, I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is primarily committed to a stronger European asylum system but, in an unexpected new migration crisis, the current European asylum system is not providing sufficient relief;]] [[calls on the government to work towards a stronger Schengen with similar neighbouring countries;]] [[calls on the government also to identify what is necessary and desirable to keep a grip on its own borders as the Netherlands in crisis time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u179	Mr Emiel van Dijk has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u180	Is this the great plan about closing our borders that yesterday was presented by the VVD with a lot of bombs in all kinds of media, from AD to Wakker Netherlands and do I know a lot of which journalist who wanted to hear it? Is this the great plan? This is nothing, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u181	This is the second term of a debate. In that we have the opportunity to make a motion in a number of sentences. I explained and presented that plan in detail yesterday, and Mr Emiel van Dijk, if he so wishes, could read the article. So the plan contains more than I'm saying right now. Yes, this is what I'm asking the Cabinet to do: investigate what would be needed et cetera. I just read it, so I won't do it again. But the plan I presented yesterday is indeed still the plan that the VVD is pursuing. We now have the opportunity to ask the cabinet for something in line with that, and so I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u182	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u183	Then it's clear. So I know that the VVD just shot an empty shell into the media and didn't come up with actual action, but with a request in the vein of 'can you take a look at this?'. The Secretary of State has already stated in her reply: we could already do that in 2017, we are actually already doing that. So it's nothing new that the VVD presents here, just a loose voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u184	Mr Emiel van Dijk has heard me read my motion and has not even heard the answer from the Secretary of State, yet he has yet to draw the conclusion that it is nothing. Anyway, he did that yesterday, at the beginning, in his own contribution, even before he heard me. Unfortunately, the PVV will always be concerned that it is not so much about the input of its own ideas, but always about the flaring of another's. It's okay, but it's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u185	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u186	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I will. A fair asylum system means that people who are not allowed to stay here actually leave. We have also discussed this extensively with the Secretary of State. She too says that this is essential. As far as the VVD is concerned, this also means that illegality should not pay. Unfortunately, this is happening in some municipalities now. We see that all too often agreements are not respected, including in the area of the national immigration provision. We are very concerned about that. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that several municipalities violate agreements at the ITV agreements by, for example, admitting excluded foreigners or receiving illegal persons for which a national provision is available;]] [[calls on the Government to fail municipalities that fail to comply with the ISV Covenant Agreements and to inform the Court in February 2021 so that, if the failure has not been remedied, the Chamber can stop financing or have the relationship with the failing municipality terminated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u187	Finally, what I also ended my contribution in the first term. A free society also requires that we do not allow for oppression. That is why we are seeing the intolerance and practices we are currently seeing in asylum seekers' centres towards the people of the Ihbti community. A lady was even overwhelmed with boiling water because she is a lesbian. That is why, with colleagues, the friends of the coalition, I shall be presenting a motion which I fully support to ensure that we tackle violence against this target group, but also those who are attacked because of their beliefs, harder and better registered. I wholeheartedly support that. Together with Mr Jasper van Dijk, we will also have a motion put to the vote in order to really investigate whether we can make marital exploitation a criminal offence better than is currently the case. Women who are in a plight at home and are used as domestic slaves; I mentioned this in my first term. This should not be possible either, but we do not yet have enough of that in the Code of Criminal Law as far as we are concerned. We'd like an investigation into that. I see that Mr Emiel van Dijk is eager to say again that it is all nonsense. So, Chairman, I'm gonna shut up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u188	Is it about a motion, Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u189	It is indeed about the final motion. We tabled a motion about a month and a half ago to withdraw the licence of people who commit violence against homosexuals or lesbians in asylum-seekers' centres or who have been fraudulent with their orientation and on the basis of which we have obtained a permit, or who have been expelled from the country. Why does the VVD vote against it if it feels so involved with the people who are the victims of this policy, precisely of this policy, of not tackling people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u190	This is what keeps happening, isn't it? Then the PVV comes forward and the PVV says: yes, the VVD actually doesn't think what the VVD says here is so important, because look, they didn't vote for my motion. But then Mr Emiel van Dijk has to say quite frankly, but I shall do so now, because he is very often not in a state of law, because he wants us to expel all these asylum seekers, which we cannot do if they come from an unsafe country. That's what I told him yesterday. That is the principle of non-refoulement. The VVD would like to comply with international conventions. The VVD wants to comply with the law. The PVV doesn't lie there that much. Indeed, I would prefer that we should be able to take away all of them from the licence, deport the country and not give them the licence, but there are also rules of law. That is why we have asked this Secretary of State: if that is not possible, go and see what sanctions are possible, for example, to make a report. The Secretary of State has made a commitment to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u191	This is the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u192	That's how you get things done instead of just shouting things that can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u193	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u194	I think that all those asylum seekers who throw boiling water on people because of their orientation are really shivering in their seats, because they can be reported. Well, pooh, pooh. What needs to be done is to throw those people out of the country with pitch and feathers. You don't have to talk like this: we're gonna keep pampering them and we're gonna give them shelter here, and what the PVV wants with that motion is unjust. That is the latest trick of the VVD. Whatever we want and what is not yet laid down in the law, we cannot ask as a Chamber, because apparently we are not co-legislators. So here's what I'm suggesting. If there are laws that hinder us from doing this kind of mutilating people, expel the country, then go and work on amending that law. You sit as a VVD in the government instead of laying down you and saying that those people can file a report. 'Cause that doesn't help those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u195	Mr Van Ojik. About the motions, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u196	Well, Mr President, more of a general question to Mrs Becker, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u197	No, this is really a second term. You really can only ask questions about the motions. I know you; you are now going to ask a general question on the basis of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u198	On the basis of the motions for resolutions, I have one more question for Mrs Becker. An important part of the debate has been on the issue of waiting times at the IND. Mrs Becker did not say so much about this in her second term, but I would like to ask her what conclusion she is making. We have now heard the Secretary of State in detail and many groups have also spoken about this. What conclusion does she draw from the fact that the Secretary of State said to the Chamber at the beginning of November 'we are doing everything we can to get the 15,000', while two weeks later we hear that the 15,000, 7,000 mandate was fulfilled. I said the Secretary of State has lost control. What conclusion does Mrs Becker draw from this course of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u199	I do not draw that conclusion from the answer given by the Secretary of State. In my view, the Secretary of State said quite quickly after she took office: I want to know how the IND is doing; I have a management investigation into that and then I set up a task force and I am going to work hard with that task force to achieve that objective. As soon as she knew she was not going to achieve that objective, she informed the Chamber. She has just told us that, and I think that is a good way of conducting political direction there. I'm disappointed that it won't work any faster, but I think we should all now strive to make it work, and not burden the IND with unnecessary or unnecessary duplications in the processes. For example, we are going to merge the hearing in the future and we are going to stop the possibility of periodic penalty payments. These are all things that I think are important and that we have managed to deal with, also thanks to this Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u200	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, also for a brief question. I feel that you are going to have the debate again, and that is not the intention. We've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u201	I'm always super short. I think the way Mrs Becker turns Emiel van Dijk away from herself is brilliant. I also agree with her 100%. But here she goes on to defend herself, because Mr Van Ojik is, of course, asking a very fair question. Why don't you reflect a little more fairly on this issue of policy? "Disappointed," that came out. But the Secretary of State has failed on this point. She made a promise, and she set up a task force, and the promise has not been kept. It's broken. On 1 January, 7,000 cases were still reported. Did the Secretary of State fail at this point? That is all I ask Mrs Becker. It would make her argument much stronger if she acknowledged this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u202	No. Look, when Mr Jasper van Dijk asks for reflection, I refer to what I said in my first term. We have made it very difficult for the IND as a political collective in recent years. For that I also put my hand in my own bosom. We didn't get the funding right. We haven't been in good shape that year. Fortunately, we were able to fix that at Spring's note, but we can't fix that overnight. This secretary of state found an IND that was still in recovery and had to hire people who had to build up expertise, which didn't work overnight either. Then she saw that it didn't always work efficiently enough at the IND in the processes. Then she set up a task force and had her research done, and now she informs the Chamber: I am very sorry, but I will not be able to do so in time for all the efforts. I think that's leadership. I think that is very good from the Secretary of State, and I am confident that the IND will succeed with the way she is now on top of it. She's saying something else here today. She says that she also thinks that we have a duty to ensure that the chain is monitored and that we do so independently, because we want to avoid problems in the future. Look, that's forward thinking! That's government! I have every confidence in that. So that's not easy to turn away from me! That is simply a sound answer from the Secretary of State on sound policies which I fully support. Well, that was an explanation of my motions, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u203	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I now give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the comprehensive answer and the many commitments that now allow us to keep it all a bit shorter and to find each other. Many thanks also to many colleagues here. We have shown together that we are prepared to stand for our freedoms and that we agree on many parts. That is also extremely important. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, we have taken significant steps to make our country safer and more free. I look forward to continuing to do so, because we are facing a lot of new challenges. We've already discussed some of them. And look at the corona challenges, too. In many areas in our society, they bring with them a lot of problems, even when it comes to security. So I am pleased that the government, this cabinet, is paying attention to organised crime, which now sees opportunities when it comes to corona, the crisis and the economic difficulties that people are experiencing and when it comes to increasing cybercrime. In relation to that, the following. I did not bring that up yesterday, because it does not have very much to do with the budget. We are receiving reports from various groups in the country today, particularly in the south. In view of the turn of the year, they are asking whether it is possible to clarify earlier on the enforcement of illegal fireworks. We said this year: we're not doing fireworks at all, especially to keep our agents and caregivers safe. Those groups find clarity in mid-December very late. So is it possible to clarify this earlier? That's the question I wanted to ask here. Thank you for that, Mr. Chairman. In concrete terms, I have four motions that all call for important matters. But they are not uncovered, as the PVV just did: these are my wishes, arrange it! I have tried to formulate the motions in such a way that we can actually take steps. I have not been able to ask all my colleagues in the brief suspension of the Minutes if they think it is a good idea and if they want to put their names under it, so I say to colleagues who would have liked to be among them: be welcome. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in recent years people have been seriously threatened and, in some cases, even murdered who have been involved in major criminal trials;]] [[noting that good security analysis and security of all stakeholders is crucial within the rule of law;]] [[Whereas an independent committee will monitor and secure the system and come forward with proposals to make it future-proof;]] [[calls on the government in its research mission also to pay explicit attention to research into the security analysis and security of recent criminal trials, including Marengo, and to the current division of tasks between different services including the NCTV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u205	Mr. Chairman. Then I have two motions on freedom of the press. The first one is about the freelance journalists. We have just seen it pass through the debate. I'm going to emphasize that with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that journalists are increasingly faced with serious, potentially restrictive threats to freedom;]] [[Whereas freelance journalists do not support a client who can support them (financially) and therefore feel that they are alone and may choose not to bring stories because of these risks;]] [[Whereas this would jeopardise the freedom of the press;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, by early February 2021, inter alia, together with PressSafe and news organisations/publishes, how freelance journalists (financial) can be supported in taking necessary precautions and/or security measures after threat, for example by establishing a facility under the management of PressSafe and making a relevant contribution to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Buitenweg and Mr Van Beuker-Huijbregts.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u206	Mr. Chairman. The second motion also deals with freedom of the press. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that journalism plays a crucial role in Dutch democracy and free society;]] [[Whereas journalists are increasingly faced with serious, freedom-limiting threats which limit them in the performance of their work and the absence of a central police hotline for the most serious cases;]] [[noting that there is a separate team of regional police investigation unit The Hague for endangered politicians;]] [[calls on the Government to establish an equivalent point of contact with the Team of Threatened Politicians for the heavier category of threatened journalists, so that there is always a point of contact with the police for these people, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Buitenweg and Mr Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u207	Mr. Chairman. You've been hearing me talk for two days about freedom of the press and journalists. In my first term I also mentioned the cartoonists, but among other columnists this includes of course. We have had several debates here in the house, for example in the case of a bill, on source protection. At that time, we were able to debate in detail and exchange views that journalists are not a protected and defined profession. This sometimes makes it difficult for us to talk about it here, but I hope that when we draw up these plans we can simply take back to the previous debates that we have had, also in connection with legislative proposals. In doing so, we have been able to find a kind of demarcation on which the profession itself claims to be able to live. I just wanted to add that as context. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another one, which is about people who, for example, register with the Chamber of Commerce and would like their home address, if they give that up, not to be visible. I also said it yesterday in the first term. However, we have received reports from people who have fallen into very serious security situations, because their data can simply be looked up. In yesterday's response from the cabinet, from the government, I see: that is difficult, but that is the case. To put it bluntly, I do not think that the Chamber of Commerce's model of earning should take precedence over the safety of the people who are registered there. So I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that threats and intimidation are increasing and that these threats are also expressed at the home address;]] [[Whereas this is very significant and has implications for the action of the threatened public space;]] [[noting that address data in public registers are easily found and can only be fully limited in the system;]] [[calls on the Government to protect public registers in which home addresses are to be provided, or to an undertaking linked to a home address, in such a way as to enable them to be identified only by the competent authority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u208	I've got a lot of motions. I'm a little overwhelmed, Mr. Chairman. Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u209	A brief question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u210	I think these are very good motions, if that's what I'm hearing. Unlike promised, there's no cover in that, but all right, that's all up to now. There were more wishes from the VVD in this debate, among other things about extra agents. Election promises are also mentioned: better tackling organised crime and so on. They're rightful wishes. Now the SP has tabled ten different amendments, for investing in the police, for investing in the Public Prosecutor's Office, investing in the Personal Data Authority, the Privacy Watchdog, you name it. We've got a lot of work to do. It's ten proposals. Now I can just imagine that the VVD is not going to support it. I like to hear it when it's different. There's all cover in there. This concerns the non-legally compulsory part of Article 36 and the same part of Article 33 on the hiring of third parties. But we are also looking outside the Ministry, for example at raising the banking tax or abolishing an ineffective subsidy for business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u211	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u212	Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius suggested in her first term that proposals were uncovered, but that is not the case. So my question to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius is: if you are not going to support all of this, do you really think that the budget of this ministry, of this minister and of this secretary of state, was perfect and that there really was no need to change a comma? Because I haven't actually seen a single proposal from the entire coalition to change a comma to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u213	Firstly, all my motions can simply be carried out as I have formulated them. We are really taking very clear steps towards better protection of journalists, for example, better protection of lawyers, better protection of judges and officers. So there's a lot of work to do. I'm glad I got them here and I'm hoping for support. I thought it was the SP, but now I can be mistaken, that amendments also passed 'let's do this' and 'it deserves itself back'. But perhaps it was a colleague of Mr Van Nispen's. I also referred yesterday to the fact that I would very much like to table such amendments, but we know that it does not work that way. Finally, I will also look closely at the SP amendments. I know we find the same thing on a number of files. I had just forgotten to say through you, Mr President, that we are even going to table a motion together. If that cover's right, we'll find each other. I said, for example, when it comes to my own anti-Semitism plan, that I do not agree with the interpretation of the cabinet, but I am curious about the impact measurement and how it will work out. So if you ask me, "the budget is perfect the way you would make it up if you could write it," I don't know. I have great faith in what is being done and I am especially proud of what we have been able to achieve with each other so far in very difficult times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u214	Thank you. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u215	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u216	Mrs Yeşilgöz is challenging me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u217	She's responding to you. A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u218	Mr. Chairman. Those amendments have been there for a week. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius could have made a long-standing assessment of this. Nine amendments are covered to the point. One of them indeed says 'that deserves to be returned'. That's not so weird. This is about taking more crime money, and it was a minister of the party of Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius who calculated that if you invest a euro in it, you will earn three euros back. Now Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius can say: what Mr Opstelten said then is not true. That was often the case with statements by Minister Opstelten at the time. But this is neatly written in a footnote. So don't come up with that you can't judge it, or that it's not covered. That's just not true. If you're going to vote against it, fine, but just say it honestly. Just say: we do not change anything at all, but we do not change anything about the budget of this ministry, because it was just perfect and we do not want extra investments in the police, extra investments to deal with organised crime and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u219	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u220	Mr. Chairman. I'll fix it, too. Over the past four years, we have invested nearly one billion more in security. That's one. That I agree on content, but can't agree on coverage is two. So that doesn't mean I'm gonna say it's all done, we don't have to do anything anymore. I have been putting forward my own proposals for two days and we can disagree about the coverage. And my final point is that it's more convenient not to spend something you don't have. I learned that as a teenager, during my vacations to Ibiza. That's not good, because eventually they'll come back for the money. So you have to have the money first so you can spend it and invest it. So you can't say, "I'm going to spend something now, and I hope it earns itself back." That's not how the world works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u221	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u222	Thank you, Madam President. On this last budget debate, I have also heard Minister Grapperhaus reflect. He also thanked his officials. I think that's good to do once in a while. Not everything is going well, but it is also good to thank the people who work hard for their commitment to bring the things we are trying to do together. He also said, "I'm not finished." I hope so too, not so much because I hope that the cabinet stays in the saddle for a long time, but because there really are a number of things up to the elections. We have, of course, also discussed stalking in other debates before, for example. I know that's what he was doing before the corona crisis started. I hope he will be able to continue to pay attention to such matters. Then the kiddie porn. We have tabled an amendment on this. The minister says he's coming with a letter. Then I hope that the letter will also clarify how the increase in the number of notifications is related to the number of people we have on it, because I see a tenfold increase in the number of notifications and a constant increase in the number of fte that this has to deal with. That is why I am keeping this amendment, which will be a small drop on the record, and I hope that colleagues will support it. We're also going to talk about security, among other things. Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius also mentioned this. I share all the concerns she had, including about the Chamber of Commerce and the like. That's what I've been talking about in my speech. I hope that when we have the technical briefing we will really see how we can help other than just journalists and columnists, for example civil society directors and so on. Then the deep nudes. Let me just read out a motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u223	Yeah, that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u224	I also have a motion on cyber security. I wanted to explain it first, but then I'm running out of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Scientific Council for Government Policy warns that our highly digitized society is vulnerable to digital disruption;]] [[Whereas vital processes in Dutch society are highly dependent on digital products and services provided by foreign private companies;]] [[Whereas it is important to know exactly which parties we depend on, both to identify risks in advance and to be able to act effectively at the time of a crisis;]] [[Whereas the responsibility for mapping these dependencies is now mainly at the level of individual organisations, but there is no overall picture of the sum total of all these individual dependencies;]] [[invites the government to gain insight, for example through a cyberdependence image or otherwise, on which parties, digital processes and services depend the functioning of vital processes in Dutch society, taking into account the confidential nature of these processes and infrastructures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u225	I'm gonna close with a quick question. We were talking about anti-Semitism. I see there is a new UN campaign against anti-Semitism. Twelve EU Member States participate, but the Netherlands has not yet applied. Maybe we can use this to get some text and explanation about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u226	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. Come on. We'll give your motion to the clerk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik, also on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, in my case, especially the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to the questions. I'm worried about the direction at and about the IND. I think that much has become clear. That is why I think it is important for the Chamber to state its position on a clear date on which the waiting lists must be resolved. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the IND continues to fail to complete the processing of asylum applications within the prescribed legal deadlines;]] [[Whereas asylum seekers have to wait an unacceptable long time for certainty about their future and the burden of COA reception is unnecessarily heavy;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the backlogs of the IND have been fully eliminated by 1 June 2021 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Ojik, Jasper van Dijk and Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u228	Mr. Chairman. I told you there's good news, too. I mentioned the letter from the mayors as an example. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the mayors of Nijmegen, Arnhem, Amsterdam, Leiden and Groningen have sent a letter to the Secretary of State calling for talks with them and making concrete agreements on the reception of more refugees from camps on the Greek islands, even before winter raids;]] [[calls on the government to enter into talks with these mayors before the end of the year, to reach concrete agreements with them, and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Moorlag, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u229	Finally, Mr President. The Secretary of State will return to Libya in second term. Then I'll listen to her with a lot of attention. In advance of that, I will file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Libyan Coast Guard is returning migrants to Libya, where they are accommodated in detention centres where there is systematic torture and sexual violence;]] [[calls on the government within the EU to press for a renewed effort to close those camps and to reconsider further cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard as long as this does not happen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u230	With your permission, I would like to ask Mr Van Ojik to put my name under the motion in part No. 40, in which the Secretary of State is asked to talk to the mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u231	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u232	Okay. Then perhaps you could add it with the pen and turn it in to the clerk. I would ask Mrs Toorenburg, who is walking on crutches today, to sort in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u233	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna talk faster than I can walk. We have expressed concerns about Internet crime. We understand that what can be made possible in the area of data exchange is being investigated, so we would like to stick to that point. We have signed a motion from the SP on the victims. We also talked about deep fakes and deep nudes. Mrs Buitenweg has tabled a joint motion on this matter. We attach great importance to this point being highlighted and looked at specifically, but we also understand that the WODC research is very important. On the subject of undermining, we have read that the Ministries of Justice and Security and BZK will play a significant role in projects aimed at strengthening resilience. I would like to draw particular attention to the study of the three Langstraat municipalities. Will the Minister take a specific look at that? We are enthusiastic about what people are trying to develop there. Then, of course, I have a shopping list from Mr Van Dam. This is first and foremost about cooperation in forensic detection. I read through the rules that the Minister acknowledges that there is a problem here. He also has a solution direction, but it doesn't seem very concrete. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that forensic detection plays an increasingly important role in solving crime;]] [[Considering that further improvements could be made to chain cooperation in the police, OM and NFI triangle in order to allow forensic detection to be more timely;]] [[calls on the Government to use part of the budget resources earmarked for 'digitalisation of work-related criminal justice chain' in order to improve chain cooperation in forensic detection, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u234	We've talked in detail about the appreciation for the police. We leave our desire to come to a defilé to rest for now. We await the development of the National Security Day. But with regard to the promise of the medal, I would very much like the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u235	Oh, Mrs. Van Toorenburg's microphone is down. Luckily, she can walk to the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u236	Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the medal. I'll file the next motion on that medal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are day in, day out of many questions from our policemen, enforcers, firefighters, ambulance staff and other aid workers;]] [[noting that, independently of financial compensation................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal for a medal for aid workers who, through their work, are physically or psychologically injured, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that police officers are at increased risk of developing PTSD or tinnitus during their police work and that the employer is responsible for doing so;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Justice and Security wishes to ensure a proper handling of this matter;]] [[Whereas the level of the pain payment cannot depend on the amount of money available to the police for the treatment of occupational diseases;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the level of pain paid to police officers who have contracted an occupational disease during their police work is not dependent on the amount of money reserved for the treatment of occupational disease in the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-43]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u237	Mr. Chairman. I've been grumbling against the Secretary of Law about the Ksa, and I'm gonna keep doing that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the draft market vision offered on 9 July, the Gaming Authority explicitly refers to the 2011 cabinet letter of the minister's predecessor, as if it set out the last cabinet vision;]] [[having noted that in 2019 the Minister for Legal Protection sent a contour letter to the Chamber on the lottery system and that this letter differs significantly from the 2011 letter on, inter alia, the extent to which the market is opened up, the conditions attached to it and the guarantee of social character;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the 2019 contour letter is central to the development of the lottery system and the supervisory policy and not to inform the 2011 letter and the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg and Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u238	Mr. Chairman. We have also had some notes on our vocals regarding asylum and migration. The handling has, of course, slowed down hopelessly, and we very much regret that. As far as the answers to the nuisance are concerned, we still have some concerns. The motion for a resolution is as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in 2020 the JenV Secretary of State made a one-off budget of EUR 1 million available for (partial) financing of local measures to address troublesome asylum seekers;]] [[whereas this scheme has now been terminated and only 11 municipalities have been entitled to it, but the budget for it is only half exhausted;]] [[Whereas it is important to be able to continue to address troublesome asylum seekers at local level;]] [[calls on the Government to re-open the scheme for (partial) funding of local measures to address harassing asylum seekers, to inform municipalities about this, and to inform the Chamber about its development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u239	Mr. Chairman. We have also expressed our concerns about the safety of certain vulnerable groups. We cosigned a motion, but it wasn't right for us yet. It is also a bit of a question of Mr Van Nispen's reasoning on how to deal with our amendments, what we all need to do with them and how to find cover for them. In one way or another, everything costs money, even though we know that it may not cost money at all in the future, but will yield something. I included that in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas preventive measures in the budgetary system cost money but in the long term lead to savings;]] [[noting that there is a feeling that the principle of 'costing for the benefit' within the security domain is being overlooked too much;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and, if so, how the financing system of Justice and Security can do more justice to the principle of prevention rather than cost money, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Van der Graaf, Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Groothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u240	Then I have another handwritten motion from the friends of the coalition I haven't read yet. That motion is about under surveillance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas problems in children are often related to parents and can cause insecurity in the child;]] [[noting that a family-oriented approach can contribute to improving the safety of the child and that there is no possibility, under civil law, of forcing adults to seek assistance;]] [[calls on the Government, in the future scenario for effective youth protection, to explicitly extend the scope for intervention within civil law child protection with enforceable supervision of educators, in order to encourage them to accept assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Van Wijngaarden, Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Ministers, the Secretary of State and their support for the reply. I've been talking about dealing with people who pay for sex with minors. This is important in order to be able to deal with human trafficking properly. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the motion for a resolution adopted unanimously by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and to the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, adopted unanimously by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, (28638, No. 166) calls on the Government to draw up a package of measures to discourage customers buying sex from minors;]] [[noting that the Chamber is still awaiting the bill regulating sex work and the sexual crimes bill;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State has announced to explore the possibilities of explicating paid sex with a minor under the age of 16 in the Criminal Code (Sr);]] [[considers that the Code of Criminal Law is now in need of revision in this respect because it is limited to 16- and 17-year-old victims, whereas many of these victims are younger, since they are the largest and most invisible group of victims of trafficking in human beings;]] [[calls on the Government to legally regulate in the bill sexual crimes that paid sex with 16-minners is punishable and to provide for the criminality of paid sex with persons aged 18 to 21 years at the time the minimum age for legal prostitution has been increased to 21 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u242	Mr. Chairman. I also talked about making those victims more visible and lowering the threshold through the chat function. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is only 2% to 3% of the underage girls in the Netherlands who are victims of exploitation;]] [[Whereas trafficking in human beings and exploitation by their very nature are crimes that you will not see until you start watching;]] [[Considering that anonymous chat functions, such as Chat with Fier, play an important role in this and contribute to increasing the visibility of trafficking in human beings and exploitation, the prevention of these crimes and the detection of the perpetrators;]] [[noting that anonymous chat functions are always active nationwide because of their operation, but funding is designed locally because of the current system;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan for the coming years to better identify the least visible group of victims of trafficking and exploitation, in particular through support for anonymous chat functions, making full use of the role of the Secretary of State in the field of trafficking in human beings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik and Mr De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u243	Finally. With a budget, you look ahead, but I also want to look back. It was the last budget of my colleague Madeleine van Toorenburg. We have just been looking at how much budget treatment this was now. I think we were about ten. I know her as persistent and involved. You can all see that. She's just standing here with a broken heel. I was gonna put "she's sitting," but she was just standing there. She's been working for victims, to improve their position, to tackle undermining and motorcycle gangs, to improve the prison system, and then I'm missing a hundred topics. I would like to thank her here, because her successors are on her shoulders. This is not the last debate, but the last budget, so thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u245	I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u246	Those last fine words I just want to join. Mr. Chairman. You may be surprised, but I was not satisfied with all the answers from the cabinet today. I have a number of motions; let me start with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government indicated that in 2024 the police would be back on full strength;]] [[noting that the intended inflow rates are not being met, including for the corona crisis;]] [[Considering that the police force will have a different composition in 2024 because there will be more aspirants and less experienced agents;]] [[Whereas there are concerns about sufficient screening for (new) agents;]] [[calls on the government to provide a realistic view on what the police will look like in 2024, including the composition of the corps, screening and capacity at the Police College,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that bank fraud such as spoofing, which exploits the trust that people have in banks, is a major social problem and that victims are financially ruined by unscrupulous criminals;]] [[noting that banks deal differently with the way victims are compensated or not, and that there are currently banks that are leaving victims completely in the cold;]] [[considers that banks cannot simply say that there is no need to compensate for their responsibilities and duty of care;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with banks as soon as possible with a view to compensating the victims and, if this fails, to inform the Court as soon as possible how compensation can still be legally enforced;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Chamber on efforts to detect criminals committing such offences and to take away the criminal money,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that claims in adoption cases are now often time-barred because the limitation period begins to run in such cases at the time of adoption and therefore the person concerned is a young child;]] [[Whereas the adopted person often finds out what happened at a later age, and the importance of the adopted person in truth finding and justice should outweigh the importance of institutions which have been guilty of culpably failing to be able to challenge this type of case years later;]] [[calls on the Government to propose that the limitation period in adoption cases be abolished or at least substantially extended, for example by allowing it to apply only when the person concerned is of age;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, following the disappearance of Sect signal, concerns have persisted regarding the treatment of sects and the assistance to victims of sects and their family members;]] [[Noting that the Court has already ruled in favour of one identifiable point where victims of sects and their family members can seek assistance and referral (31015 no. 189);]] [[calls on the Government to provide, as soon as possible, this contact point for victims of sects and their families within the existing structure so that they can be helped and, if necessary, referred, and where the signals on sects come together to improve the approach to sects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-51]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Nispen, Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Nijboer, Buitenweg, Van Toorenburg, Van Beukering-Huijbregts and Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-53]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u247	And my final motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that additional funds have been allocated to strengthen the resilience of, inter alia, toga carriers;]] [[Considering that the number of threats has increased over the past year and that their impact is long lasting and reduces sustainable employability;]] [[noting that practitioners of gay professions need a safe place where they can unwind after imminent threats and take the lead in a confidence-building environment;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the professional groups, to invest once in setting up a district for grooms, and to inform the Chamber of its progress;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and, where appropriate, facilitate the need for a neighbourhood for other persons who contribute to the rule of law and the protection of our fundamental rights (such as freedom of expression) from their work (agents, teachers, journalists),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u248	Mr. Chairman. We have tried to take stock of security and the rule of law after four years of these ministers and the Secretary of State, after ten years of Prime Minister Rutte. Our conclusion was that much more investment is needed in all kinds of areas. You can actually hear from this debate that there is a desire from all sides to invest in the police and the IND, to invest in taking more crime money to invest heavily in all kinds of areas, because it is badly needed. Perhaps that does indeed deserve to be returned; I have just said something about this. Investment in access to justice is also very much needed. I am pleased that the Minister has made a gesture by saying: if money is left this year, then it will go to the lawyers in personal and family law. But that is far from what is really necessary, and so does the Minister. To resolve all these issues, we have tabled many amendments. There's an incredible amount of work in there. They have been so far by the ministers and just by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and also by other coalition parties, I fear, skilfully out of the Chamber tennis, as if they were tennis balls. Like there's no need to invest in the police. As if it is not necessary to invest in the Personal Data Authority. As if it is not necessary to ensure that the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse stays alive, in the fight against child abuse and for tackling child pornography. The latter is a very small amount of money, dear Members of Parliament. I can't imagine that the coverage is wrong, because we've taken on all kinds of different coverages. But even if that cover doesn't work out, look at an alternative and make sure we keep it up at least. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u249	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, also on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u250	Mr President, I have six motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u251	I'd start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u252	...that I'm involved in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u253	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u254	Look, that's not so bad, is it? For example, I am involved in Mr Van Ojik's first motion. It's already filed. Make a plan of action with a deadline of 1 June next. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u255	That saves a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u256	Then Mr Voordewind will come up with a motion to make real progress on the so-called Moria deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u257	That also saves a motion. That's two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u258	Would you tick it, please? Can I turn that into interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u259	Or extra minutes! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u260	Mr. Chairman. Then there's a motion of yours on the naturalization test. I submitted it to WHO Integration, but that is what this Secretary of State is about. Maybe she can still respond to it. It's about applying customization. Then there's a motion on marital exploitation filed with Mrs. Becker. He'll be in a mood on Tuesday. Finally, Mr President, two real motions. The first is about return. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a failing return policy is detrimental to the acceptance of refugee reception;]] [[noting that countries such as Spain and France manage to agree on return with countries of origin such as Morocco, but the Netherlands do not;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a return plan by 1 January 2021 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u261	The second motion is for Minister Dekker, about the bailiffs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to increase the rates of bailiffs by 16%;]] [[believes that this is extremely undesirable in times of corona;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the tariff increase indefinitely,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u262	Mr. Chairman. I see I have one minute and 15 seconds left. I won't finish it. Of course, I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen's fine farewell statement when he says goodbye to this trio. This is the last budget in this composition, let me put it this way. We finish the ten years of Rutte nicely now. Next year, of course, it's time for a fresh, new cabinet, social-progressive. I see that the Minister of Justice, Mr Grapperhaus, is not yet going to applaud. You will. Maybe he's even in there, but he'd have to be a little excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u263	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I have four motions. I'm gonna get started on that real quick. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been political interference in the appointment of Polish judges;]] [[Considering that the disciplinary chamber of the Polish Supreme Court still has disciplinary proceedings against judges, despite the ruling of the Court of Justice of the EU that this is unlawful because these disciplinary judges are not independent;]] [[considers that this is a serious threat to the rule of law in Poland, while the rule of law is the foundation of our European Union;]] [[considers that the European Commission fails to enforce previous Court decisions and that the Article 7 procedure has not yet been successful;]] [[Whereas Article 90 of the Constitution states that the Netherlands promotes the development of the international legal order;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine and prepare, preferably in cooperation with like-minded Member States, Poland before the Court of Justice of the EU for failure to comply with an obligation in Poland under the Treaties and to inform the Court of Justice by 1 February 2021 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groothuizen, Mr Van Dam and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u265	The second reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there was under-utilisation of the legal aid budget in 2019 and is also expected in 2020;]] [[noting that it has been agreed that any money remaining in legal aid should also be spent on legal aid;]] [[Whereas the problems in the social attorneys' profession are currently the most acute in the field of personal and family law;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal on the next post or spring note to use (part of) the remaining budget to support the social lawyer working in personal and family law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that cybercrime continues to increase and that, given the further digitisation of society, no downward trend is foreseen;]] [[noting that the capacity to deal with cybercrime is lagging behind that of the police;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure simultaneous financing of its chain effects in the case of investments in capacity and/or police expertise to address cybercrime, so that the capacity of the Public Prosecutor does not lag behind that of the police, and to inform the Court in the spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many reports of incidents of intimidation and violence against asylum seekers due to their orientation, belief or religion;]] [[considers that asylum seekers should not be discriminated against, threatened or even attacked by fellow asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government, within two months, in consultation with relevant organisations, to draw up a plan of action for a safer environment for lhbti asylum seekers and converts in azc's;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a record of these incidents as part of this plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Groothuizen, Mr Van Dam, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Buitenweg and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-59]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groothuizen, Mr Becker, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet and the official support for the response we have received, both orally and in writing today. I also welcome the Minister's commitment to engage with the Security Council and the VNG to highlight the fact that women still feel too often unsafe on the streets. I would still like to hear whether the Minister can indicate when we can expect a feedback from this. Thanks also for confirming that ethnicity and nationality should not be used in risk profiles. Moreover, we do not yet have an answer to our questions about Amnesty International's report, which states that this is exactly what is being done at the Sensing project in Roermond. If this is true, I ask the Minister to ensure that the use of these profiles is stopped as soon as possible. Then the Personal Data Authority. We are pleased that this year's gap has been closed, but the answer suggests that we are now there and that the growth of the budget in the European context is impressive. The Netherlands is one of the most digitised countries in the EU and even in the world. If internal investigations were to show that the Authority needs much more money, we should see how we can work towards it. There may have been growth, but growth is already outdated and the Authority is not future-proof in our view. There is now about 1 fte for algorithms at the Authority. That's far too little when we see how much government is experimenting with algorithms. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas companies and public authorities are gathering more and more data;]] [[Whereas technologies such as algorithms and facial recognition process personal data and therefore fall within the scope of the Personal Data Authority;]] [[Whereas monitoring compliance with the GDPR is an extremely intensive task;]] [[noting that the Personal Data Authority is significantly behind in handling complaints and licensing;]] [[Calls on the Cabinet to identify how the results of the KPMG report on the Personal Data Authority can be implemented;]] [[invites the Cabinet also to examine how the capacity and resources of the Personal Data Authority can be structured at an adequate level from 2022 onwards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Beukering-Huijbregts, Verhoeven, Buitenweg, Van Nispen and Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u267	I did support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u268	Are you underneath it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u269	I'm under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u270	Then it's very strange to ask a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u271	It's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u272	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u273	Madam President, I would like to do so because it has just been suggested that this year's problem has been resolved. I think it is important, precisely because the motion states that there are serious delays, and I support that. So I cannot support saying that the problems have been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u274	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u275	I think the honourable Member also agrees, but it is important to note that the problems for now, even now, this year, have not been resolved either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u276	No, this isn't customary. Then you're gonna fight that between yourselves. Please continue, Mrs. Van Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u277	This was my first budget treatment, Justice. I thought it was special to be around. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u278	Thank you. Sometimes we forget that people go through this for the first time. Then I will go to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u279	Mr. Chairman. This is also my first discussion of the Justice budget. I thought there were always a lot of motions in the handling of LNV subjects, but this really surpasses everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u280	So you don't have any motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u281	I have one motion, Mr President, and I have signed a number of motions by colleagues. The motion that is closest to my heart is Mr Van Ojik's motion, which calls on the Secretary of State to speak with the mayors. The mayors, on behalf of their communities, I stress that: on behalf of their communities, they offer space and also have space in their heads to give priority to humanity and to take people from Moria. I know that this has been put into concrete in political relations here, but this is a very sharp stone in the shoe. So I cherish that motion and I hope that the Secretary of State will at least have the willingness to talk to the mayors. Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers. One part of the answer I found very uncomfortable, namely about the delays with the IND. I read a biography of Norbert Schmelzer once. He was raised by Carl Romme, the CVP group chairman, a long time ago. He reportedly told Norbert Schmelzer that there is a'special concept of truth' in The Hague. He characterized this as: always tell the truth, the full truth, but never the complete truth. There has been a bit of a reply on this subject according to that truth. To my liking, if the full truth had been told, the minister would have had to say: I didn't operate competently, it just wasn't in control. The Secretary of State has said that she wants to monitor more closely. I think we should do the same. The frequency of the information provision should be increased somewhat. That's what my motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Task Force has failed to fully implement the mandate to deal with 15,350 asylum applications by the end of the year;]] [[Whereas the consequences of the delay are particularly painful for some 7,000 waiting asylum seekers;]] [[considers that in future the Court should be informed in good time about the progress of handling the remaining asylum applications;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber on a monthly basis of the state of play regarding the handling of the remaining 7,000 asylum applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u282	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for Legal Protection for the warm words he has said about the settlement of disputes that are easily accessible. I hope he's really gonna work on that. Access to justice will make it much easier for many people. That's really important. I thank the Minister of Justice and Security for his commitment to send a letter about intimidating the police. I have previously called for representatives of organizations who are guilty of this to be banned from the government's consultative tables. Neither directly nor indirectly should this be the case. I would like to ask the Minister if we can receive that letter before Christmas. I'm still waiting for a letter about an earlier motion, about banning parties questioning the Holocaust. That's not up to these rulers. It's with LNV's colleague. But a letter for Christmas would be very much appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u283	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u284	Thank you, Madam President. We know how difficult it is for victims of human trafficking to speak out and in what unequal position they are in. The increase in the burden of proof now makes it easier for perpetrators to escape the dance and for victims not to get the protection they deserve. That's why I'm filing a motion, following the reconnaissance the cabinet is doing right now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is exploring whether, and if so how, an amendment to Article 273f of the Criminal Code could contribute to a more effective fight against trafficking and exploitation of people, and to their benefit;]] [[Whereas there is already sufficient reason to believe that adaptation of Article 273f of the Code of Criminal Law could contribute to this;]] [[calls on the Government to share with the Chamber the results of this review and to make substantiated proposals for the amendment of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Bolkestein, Mr Kuik, Mr Moorlag and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u285	Mr. Chairman. Then the big question is, what do drugs cost our society? There are people who say: count on half the time the police have to spend on it, count on half the justice budget. We are discussing this budget today: over 14 billion. With more than half of them, we're going to be worth about 7 billion. I would very much like to see these costs, all the social costs involved, mapped out. I think the Minister wants that, too. I ask him to say that he is going to map out all the social costs of drug trafficking, drug production, drug crime and drug use and will share that overview with the Chamber. I'm asking him if he'd like to do that in January. We are talking about all these social costs, the costs of the criminal justice chain, but also the social costs and the economic costs, all those competitive entrepreneurs with their crooked businesses. I would very much like a commitment from the Minister on this point with the question of whether he can deliver this in January. Finally, I wish these rulers a great deal of blessing and wisdom in their duties in the coming year. They've got a nice job to do. Yesterday I called for the rule of law to be there for the people, for people to be able to appeal to the rule of law. I have also indicated that there are people who need additional protection from the rule of law. I hope that they will have it in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u286	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind, also on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we never know about the rulers, but we do know about others in this Chamber that it was also the last budget. We should have given Mrs Van Toorenburg's speech to several Members, including yours truly. Anyway, we might get one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u288	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u289	My time is short. I would like to thank those Members who have supported some of my motions. I'm gonna read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch Cabinet has indicated that 50 unaccompanied minors and 50 vulnerable family members with minor children are to be taken over from Greece;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State has indicated that it is committed to achieving the agreements to the Netherlands as soon as possible and preferably before Christmas;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to achieve this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Groothuizen, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u290	The second motion concerns the State Secretary's commitment to monitoring the asylum chain. We are pleased and grateful for that. There was a subtlety from the Secretary of State that said something about my question as to whether it was also about decision-making. I'd like to mark that in a motion. I'm just waiting to see how the Secretary of State will respond to that to see if we can get through with this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State wishes to have the asylum chain monitored externally and has undertaken to involve decision-making;]] [[Whereas a proper assessment of asylum applications is at the heart of asylum policy;]] [[calls on the Government to make the assessment of asylum applications part of the announced screening exercise, involving independent experts from different disciplines who may also examine confidential asylum files,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u292	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I shall now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, but he has no more speaking time. Will his speaking time be set against that of another budget? I don't think you've finished all the speaking time. Is that right? I hear he needs two minutes. That is enough time, otherwise I will hear it from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u293	You're gonna be fine, Mr. Chairman. Those two minutes should do it. I have three motions. Before I read it, I thank the Minister and his officials for their reply. I would also like to thank him for the commitment that the bill for the restraining ban on animal executioners will be sent to the Council of State in December. I hope that we will be able to deal with it in the Chamber in January. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment to look into the instruction video in which the dog is used in a car. I'd like to take a look at the invitation to watch that instruction video together. All under corona measures, but that goes without saying. Three motions. The first motion is about the police dog. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to launch an investigation into the effectiveness and desirability of the use of police dogs as a means of violence, involving the new instruction in office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas monitoring and enforcement of the malicious trade in animals is inadequate because the NVWA cannot handle the work;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen the capacity of the animal police to tackle this form of organised crime vigorously,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-67]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u294	Then there's a brief introduction. Yesterday, Mr Graus and I tabled a motion during the second term of LNV's budgetary treatment calling on the government to investigate the possibility of a ban on the killing of pets and pets by private individuals. The Minister of LNV advised against that motion, because the killing of animals by private individuals is already prohibited. I reported to the interrupting microphone that that is not the case. Only killing dogs, cats and geese is arranged. The Minister did not go into that, but persisted in her rejection. The Minister of Agriculture does not seem to know its own law, since the killing of animals by private individuals is prohibited in Article 2.10 of the Animal Law and is elaborated in Articles 1.9 and 1.10 of the Decision, but only dogs, cats and geese are mentioned. If you breed guinea pigs and you don't like the color, you can put an end to a nest with a sidewalk. It happens. I read about this on the internet and fora: people say that it is best to inject them with aspirin, or that you can use a pavement or brick. Really, your stomach turns when you read it. So I want to put an end to that. It's an omission in the law. The police and the LED are empty-handed. They can't intervene. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of banning and penalising the killing of pets and pets by private individuals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u295	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u297	I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP. He also has two minutes. Go ahead, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u298	Mr. Chairman. I've got a short time. I'm gonna read the motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that everyone in the Netherlands deserves protection;]] [[Whereas the IHRA definition aims to protect Jews affected by anti-Semitism;]] [[whereas on 22 November 2018, the House of Representatives adopted a motion by the Member Van der Staaij on the use of the IHRA definition for anti-Semitism;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the rapid and identifiable implementation of this definition in the detection and prosecution of anti-Semitism and to report to the Court on it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u299	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas effective return policy is an essential part of a well-functioning European asylum and migration system;]] [[noting that the revision of the Return Directive is the central building block of the European Commission's plan to promote the return of rejected asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government not to support the EU Migration Pact until agreement has been reached on tightening up the Return Directive, extending, for example, the possibilities for forced return or detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that instead of the existing RUPS a new funding of exit programmes is now foreseen. This is paid to 18 designated DUUP municipalities by means of a decentralisation allowance;]] [[Whereas it is important that the money is used effectively for programmes providing guidance for finding a home, work or daily spending outside prostitution;]] [[calls on the Government to establish frameworks during the transition to ensure that the objective remains to promote genuinely sustainable departures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas district agents are too often used for emergency aid and other important police tasks, which means that they do not have sufficient information to provide problems and to intervene in a timely manner at local level;]] [[Whereas this causes repression and the police continue to pursue the facts;]] [[calls on the government to ensure a structural reduction of the shortage of FTEs in basic police care so that district agents can be allowed to carry out their regular tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-71]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-72]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u300	Mr. Chairman. The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important that children's judges have sufficient time to actively fulfil their responsibilities for careful decisions on child protection measures;]] [[noting that the exploration of parental legal protection shows that the factors of time and money put pressure on legal protection and that a more active test of care and legality is a learning point in administrative law;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultation with the Council on the case-law on how a more active scrutiny of care and legality in child protection measures can take place and to facilitate the importance of more time and money where necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u301	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions, as well as for their support through the many written work that has been submitted. That's been completely covert. The answers were not always entirely at the level we expect and wish for, but the questions have all been touched. I think that's very good. My compliments on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u302	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm rarely the last, but well, things can change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u304	A few groups are not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u305	I can tell. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate. It was mostly content. Sometimes it was a bit catty, but that's part of it. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the latest investigation carried out by Europol shows that the risk of extreme right is increasing;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its approach to the extreme right and to allocate additional resources to this and to achieve more FTEs on the approach to the extreme right,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that several whistleblowers have reported abuses within the national police, including sexual assaults, discriminatory and racist language;]] [[Whereas there is no limited view of the cross-border use of language by agents working in the national police;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent national inquiry into statements made by agents working in the national police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been an increase in domestic violence and sexual violence worldwide;]] [[calls on the Government to intensify its efforts to identify and accompany the victims of child abuse and sexual violence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that last year it was decided to equip 17,000 agents with a power surge weapon because violent crimes against them would have increased;]] [[Whereas the power surge weapon was introduced on the basis of incorrect arguments and incorrect information;]] [[calls on the government to stop equiping electric-weapons agents immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Zembla broadcast 'Bite as a reward' shows that the police dog is being used unlawfully and in a disproportionate manner and that in many cases the police dog does not listen to the dog guide's command;]] [[Whereas, under the rule of law, a serious means of violence, such as the police dog as a means of violence, should only be used by the police when the means of violence are regulated;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend/visits the use of the police dog as a means of violence by the national police as long as the new instruction has not yet entered into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-75]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-76]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-77]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-78]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u306	We're almost there, Mr. Chairman, and I've got four minutes and five seconds. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the national police will increasingly use new technologies including artificial intelligence in carrying out its tasks;]] [[noting that, according to the Council of Europe, the use of Al for predictive policing may lead to discrimination and ethnic profiling;]] [[noting that the Council of Europe concludes that the current legislation is insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a legal framework for the use of artificial intelligence and algorithms by national police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u307	Finally, the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the first stage of the complaint handling within the police organisation more than 90% is handled without the use of the complaints committee;]] [[noting that the purpose of complaint treatment is to restore public confidence in the police, to strengthen the learning capacity of the police and to improve the image of the police;]] [[Whereas many citizens have little confidence in the complaint procedure and consider that the current complaint procedure has a high 'butcher's approval level of their own meat;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the complaint procedure can be made more independent and to ensure that the statements of the independent complaints committee become binding on the national police, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-VI-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u308	Mrs. Helder has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u309	When I hear all of Mr Azarkan's motions, I wonder whether there is anything good in the national police force in his view. 'Cause I think it's really sour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u310	There's a lot of good in the national police. I'm glad there are cops out there looking after our security. I yell that a lot too. I think that almost all cops are working on that security with heart and soul. I think there are also abuses in the national police. Of course, you can't do that if you're working with 65,000 people. I think it's a good thing we mention that. I think whistleblowers who do that sometimes get demonized. We've seen that. They are working out the organization. They're being countered. I think it is also good for the credibility of the national police that we take a critical look at this. This means that we keep the quality high and that we help those who want it, who make up the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-26-tweedekamer-5.u311	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. 61 motions have been tabled. I actually want to suspend briefly now and then we're going to vote. I understand you're gonna need about 20 minutes to assess those motions.
