ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the general consultation report on working well and safely. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. We'll start with a term from the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Van Weyenberg, on behalf of Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention to two points. The first concerns the alcohol, drugs and medicines tests announced by the Secretary of State. My group said in the consultation that we still have a lot of questions and that we are critical of them. Once again, I would like to call for the social partners, in particular, to start talking to each other now to find solutions and a shared approach, as is always the case with working conditions. That would really be worth a sweet thing to me. The second is the Labour Inspectorate's advice to simply say that children under the age of 16 are not allowed to deliver meals because it is too dangerous, too many accidents happen and they find too many abuses. The Secretary of State has spoken warm words about this, but has also said that she wants to study on it. As far as my group is concerned, we can just get right to it. Besides, I'd like us to find out what's going on with the platforms. Do children under the age of 16 really not do that, for example with the device of their older brother or sister? 'Cause I'm really getting signals about that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of serious accidents have taken place in recent years with young people who were working late as a meal deliverer;]] [[Whereas more than half of the companies investigated by the SZW Inspection do not comply with the law;]] [[Whereas the SZW Inspection advises explicitly to ban meal delivery by young people under 16 years of age;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce the ban on meal delivery by young people under 16 as soon as possible and to check with the SZW Inspection whether there are any indications that young people under 16 are also being used in food delivery in non-hospital establishments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Van Kent, Mr Renkema and Mr Peters.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u3	As far as I'm concerned, we can follow the advice immediately. With regard to the second part of this request to the cabinet, I am doing the same, because the platforms say that it does not occur when in practice it does. Although they are indeed trying to prevent it. I would like to see real research on this. I really hope the inspection can help us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you for your input. Mr Van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to highlight two points from the AO. The first is about the alcohol and drug tests. I think it might be important to test whether people are under the influence. That is the case with dangerous work. This is already happening, for example with drivers. However, I have not heard any facts. I therefore believe that we should not take the view, from a political point of view, that we should make it possible at every workplace to test people for the use of alcohol and drugs. That is a violation of the labour rights we have given workers. I'd like to respect that. I hope that we will do so widely in the Chamber, and I hope that the Secretary of State will do so. So the urgency that both the VVD and the Secretary of State emphasizes is not there. There's no proper investigation. So, please, let us not translate that urgency into policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u6	I was also stunned in the AO that Mr. Gijs van Dijk denies that there are facts. That's why I did some homework. I printed out some reports. I can read them all here, but that would take a very long time. But if you want these reports, I'd like to give them to you. And then we can work together on an ADM policy that includes testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u7	Safe work is a priority for the Labour Party. So that means that it can be tested at functions where someone under influence can be a danger to themselves and others. But I have read the words of Mr Smalls in De Telegraaf. He was talking about forest rangers who would walk through a forest drunk with sawing machines. I think that is an image that does not do justice to reality. That does not do justice to many people who go to work in a fit and good way every day. So I don't want to create an image of fear. I'd like to read any research. I asked the Secretary of State in the debate what the facts were. There's one investigation, and that's from the CNV. I don't want to take any of that away. But is there not a broad investigation of the inspection, of the Ministry itself or of any renowned research agency, which shows that there is a very big problem, among a lot of people in the workplace, which is a very serious and urgent danger. Only the VVD can see that. Only this Secretary of State can see that. Stop that fear!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u8	Finalizing, Mr. Smalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u9	I've got seven tests in my hand here. I can produce many more. So one investigation! Mr. Van Dijk, no way!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u10	I said what I wanted to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u11	Then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u12	The second point is in support of Mr Van Weyenberg. The inspection has sent a strong and strong signal about meal delivery workers under 16 years of age. She says stop it right now. I support Mr Van Weyenberg's motion. My name's underneath, too. I would like to call on the Secretary of State to do so immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. I call Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr President. We've had a good discussion about working healthy and safe. GroenLinks stands for a relaxed society and I'm critical of a 24-hour economy. That's why I asked questions about night work. We are currently used to the situation in the Netherlands: ordered today, delivered tomorrow morning. I would very much like to go there, and I have also put that forward in the AO report that we are saying: ordered today, processed tomorrow. That means you have to wait a little longer for your package. As a result of the debate, the big web stores have said: we see no reason to respond to this plan by GroenLinks. I'm not gonna name any of those web stores, but I think they're very well-known web stores where everyone sometimes orders a package. But the Secretary of State was enthusiastic during the debate, and she also announced that in the media. I was happy about that. She says: I think it's kind of an interesting plan to explore further. My question to her now is: who is she going to speak to? When's she gonna do that? But above all: when will we hear about the outcome of these talks? So I would very much like her to give us a timetable for the plan that I put forward during the general discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr President.I have only one motion to try to improve the situation in the asbestos industry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is uncertainty as to the role of TNO in the assessment of innovative methods for asbestos removal and their inclusion in the SMA-rt risk classification system;]] [[calls on the government to choose a risk and data-driven approach to the SMA-rt risk classification system and to give TNO a central role in this, including the necessary resources;]] [[invites the government to give TNO a central role in the Validation and Innovation Point (VIP) in the assessment of new methods and measures, in which TNO prepares a major opinion to the State Secretary on the basis of the data and method description provided and after consultation of the pool of experts in the VIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga, von Martels and Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-377]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u17	I don't want to be procedurally complicated at all. Mr Van Haga does not have a very large group, so I know he cannot participate in many debates. He wasn't present at the AO. Now he's filing a motion here, and that's his right to do so. But let's not make a habit of it, because otherwise it's all about nothing. It wasn't extensive about asbestos. That is what I wanted to give to Mr Van Haga. But I also respect that he does not have a very large group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u18	This is a bit of a contradiction, because on the one hand Mr Van Dijk shows that he has respect for the fact that a small group cannot participate in everything. On the other hand, even though you did not participate in the AO, it is perfectly permissible to file a motion. Indeed, as you are suggesting, it is quite impossible for a small fraction to participate in all these AO's. To be quite honest, it is sometimes quite useless to sit somewhere for four hours, while you only want to make one point. Especially in view of the fact that split-ups are given half the speaking time, I think that this is exactly how I manage it very efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u19	I am not, with Mr Van Haga, a very large group in this house, with nine seats. We make it a habit not to make any motions when discussing what we do not participate in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u20	Do I have to say anything about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u21	That's entirely up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u22	We continue to disagree on this. On the contrary, I think it would be very beneficial if Mr Van Dijk did not go to an AO once, but would confine himself to a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you for your input. We have come to the end of the term of office. The Secretary of State may respond directly to the two motions tabled, so I give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to Members for their input, here and during the general discussion, in which we have indeed talked about the great importance of healthy and safe work. I have had a few more questions, including from Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Gijs van Dijk, about the alcohol and drug tests. We had a wide-ranging exchange of views on this during the general consultation. I would like to point out, even from this point on, that such a test, if you allow it, has an extremely careful procedure in the legal sense. There are strict privacy requirements. That's not for nothing, because the integrity of the human body, what happens to your body, is a fundamental right. If you are creating space for such a test, it must be done with legal justification. In the letter I sent to the Chamber earlier, I indicated that I intend to take care of that for the chemical sector. That's a very specific industry. I would also like to be kept informed of the discussions that social partners are having with each other. So the care your Chamber is asking for, I'm sure I'll take care of it. Of course, there is also a quantitative basis for legal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u25	We are absolutely not going to repeat the debate, we are going to discuss the proposal here. But in the Chamber there was a broad request to the Secretary of State to ask the social partners to come out together. I wondered whether that signal had been explicitly transmitted to the Labour Foundation by the Secretary of State by two weeks apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u26	I do not know if it has already been so explicit, but at least when I sent the letter to the Chamber I also made an invitation to the social partners to continue the conversation. I will ensure that at the next meeting we have with the social partners this issue will be actively placed on the agenda. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a question from Mr Renkema about the platform economy. That has indeed been part of the debate on night work and its consequences. I've experienced it so much that it would be very good to see if it's possible to introduce some kind of selector. I would like to discuss this with the industry. As a result of the debate, we have also received reactions from parties who would like to have a conversation themselves. Of course, we'd love to, but I'm going to go wider. As soon as I have had those conversations, I will inform the Chamber. I think that'll be before the summer. We have to think about distribution centres and platform companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u27	Just for the sake of clarity: is that conversation before the summer or do we get the first results of those conversations before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u28	As far as I'm concerned, before the summer, I'll inform the Chamber about what the conversations looked like. Mr President, two motions for resolutions. The first motion, in part No. 376, from Mr Van Weyenberg, among others, concerns the delivery of meals. Indeed, I have received a very strong signal from the inspection SZW. There is a lot wrong with the meal delivery, there are many findings from the Inspection that young people under the age of 16 are working, which is not allowed. I have indicated that I certainly do not rule out a ban. The Inspection has found a lot of things that are already banned; think of delivery after 7 p.m. At the same time, the Inspection also notes that there is some grey area, and I would also like to see whether clarification is possible. I can imagine that there are other sectors where the same type of work creates dangerous situations, for example. That is why I have indicated that I would like to inform the Chamber myself before the summer whether I am going to ban it. As far as I'm concerned, it's not a rush in the can to go to college for a very long time, but to clear it up quickly, partly because of the strong signal. I would like to ask the authors whether they wish to continue this motion. Otherwise, I would have to advise against the motion, although I say that I have indicated several times not to rule out a ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u29	The purpose of the motion is not to wait, the Secretary of State knows that. She has made her position clear, but I shall put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u30	This motion will be given the verdict "dissuade" and will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga's motion, Mr von Martels and Mr Stoffer's motion for a resolution 377, I don't recommend. It's about a central role for TNO. TNO is given a major role in the VIP, but it should also be able to be replaced if necessary. In this form, I must discourage the motion, because TNO also works for the market, and cannot therefore assess its own work. That is why there are other experts in the VIP who can replace TNO if they so wish. It is important that we see that the VIP advises and not just TNO. If that could be changed, I could give the motion judgment Chamber, otherwise I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u32	That makes the motion in part no. 377 also advised against it. Have you finished your speech? Thank you, then, we are at the end of this debate. I see a question from Mr Van Haga on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u33	Now I'm gonna miss exactly what you want changed in that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u34	In particular, it is a question of giving TNO a heavier position in the VIP. TNO is an organisation that also takes orders from third parties; that is perfectly logical and fine. TNO is therefore not in a position, as far as I am concerned, to have a sort of decisive character, and that is what the motion says. I think it is important to give a balanced opinion, a balanced opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u35	That's exactly the thrust of that motion, so I'll maintain the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u36	We have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-8.u37	Both motions will be put to the vote on Tuesday 10 March. I propose that we proceed immediately to the next subject, because that is also with the Secretary of State, and so it is already present. The same goes for the spokesmen.
