ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next VSO is following a written consultation on the evaluation of the Public Library Facilities Act, Fixed Book Prize and Royal Library. Six speakers have spoken on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr El Yassini of the VVD Group. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's get to the point right away. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that VAT on digital publications has been reduced from 21% to 9% by 1 January 2020 and promised that the price on digital publications would decrease for consumers;]] [[Whereas the evaluation shows that this has not been done;]] [[noting that the evaluation of the Public Library Facilities Act shows that the number of e-books for young people is lagging behind in the digital collection of the public library;]] [[believes that language disadvantage is an important social problem and that it is important that the public library is also easily accessible to young people when it comes to e-books;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the VAT reduction on digital publications actually leads to a reduction in the price of publications by talking to publishers, to make it clear that the VAT reduction is intended for consumers and not to shun the means of taking and shaming;]] [[calls on the government also to use the possible financial space created within libraries' budgets by the price cuts to increase the supply of youth content within e-books for the public library to 75%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr El Yassini and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33846-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. El Yassini. The next speaker to come to the cathedral after it has been cleaned is Mr Van den Berge of the GroenLinks group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. For years, especially children's book writers have been losing revenue when their books are lent out not through the library but through school. The library agreement is currently under negotiation. There is a great opportunity to find a solution to this problem. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for years there has been a lack of clarity as to who is responsible for loan rights remuneration in the reading promotion programme of the Library at school;]] [[noting that at least the lending of books from the collection of a public library placed at school is subject to reimbursement;]] [[noting that rightholders have been missing revenue for years because this is not properly regulated in practice;]] [[noting that the Minister writes that the subject is given a place in the Libraries Convention and that she tries to reach a general line with all those involved in the Library at school;]] [[Whereas the Minister himself has as his starting point that rightholders, creators and publishers are entitled to fair remuneration for the exploitation of their works;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that rightholders are involved in the discussions on the basis of the Libraries Agreement, so that concrete agreements can be made on the payment of loan rights fees in the case of loans from the Library at school, with the aim that rightholders will receive fees at least from 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge, Mr Asscher, Mr Belhaj and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33846-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u6	I would like to make two brief comments. Mr Kwint will be tabling a motion on MBO students in the near future, because practically trained people can still get less discount on teaching materials than students at the colleges and the scientific institutions. He'll tell you all about it later. Mr Van den Hul will be tabling a motion on behalf of me on libraries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. After the cathedral has been cleaned, I give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul, who has already been announced. She is a member of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my colleague, Mr Asscher, who is normally speaking in our group on this important issue. Something's going on. The Culture Council was already the emergency clock and called for at least one library per municipality to be made compulsory. They don't do that for nothing, because in recent years, the number of libraries has fallen. There are already a lot of municipalities without a full library. The average distance to a library facility is also increasing. There are also more and more libraries that cannot comply with their legal obligations because they cannot fulfil the functions they should perform. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an increasing number of municipalities do not have a full library facility and that the number of physical library sites is also decreasing, thereby increasing the distance to a library for people;]] [[Whereas the library is the place where anyone, regardless of their income and level of education, can come into contact with art and culture;]] [[Considers that an accessible library makes an important contribution to combating and preventing low literacy;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that each municipality in the Netherlands offers a full library facility that fills in the five functions as defined in the Library Act, and to ensure this in the Wsob,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van den Berge and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33846-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr President, thank you. I thank the Minister for her written reply. I think we would normally discuss this law here in the plenary. We have all done so in writing now, but I do not think that this means that anyone thinks it is important enough. That is why it is good to be able to say something about this today. Libraries encourage equality of opportunity by bringing people into contact with reading. Whether you're young or old, whoever you are, wherever you're from, everyone benefits from the library. The lack of fully-fledged libraries in certain municipalities contributes to inequality of opportunity and should therefore also be avoided. D66 is pleased that extra money is available to clean up these white spots, such as those called, and that the Minister is working to make arrangements in the library agreement on the guarantee of library provision in each municipality for the future. If anything has demonstrated the importance of the digital library, it is the corona crisis. Usage grew to over 300,000 active users in this period and around 2.2 million loans. That's fantastic. By doing so, digital lending underlines its added value. I am therefore pleased that an active effort is being made to increase user-friendliness. Mr. Chairman. In increasing equality of opportunity, the library plays a key role. I can see that the Minister is working hard to do that. I want to thank her for that. I have just tabled a motion with my colleague from GroenLinks. Another motion will shortly be tabled, and I shall look at Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet of the CDA, whom I have also co-signed. I have a technical briefing now, which means I have to leave. That is not out of disinterest, but out of sense of duty that I must be able to be in other places as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. While the cathedral is being cleaned, I ask Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet to come forward. She is a member of the CDA Group. Or wait, I'm making a mistake. Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet has already been announced by Mrs Belhaj, but Mr Kwint is on my list as the next speaker. Then comes Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. Mr Kwint speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a slight dampening of expectations. Mr Van den Berge just said that I would tell you all about the bottlenecks that MBO students encounter and the discounts they do not receive, but other students do. Unfortunately, I will not be able to do that in two minutes, as this is an almost inscrutable tangle of own appointments, the fixed book price and all kinds of other things. The fact is that there are several providers who do not give MBO students the discount on study materials that students in HBO and at university do get. We would like to see that different, bearing in mind that we are not sending the Minister out of the Chamber with an easy task. Anyway, if it were easy, we wouldn't have to. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that MBO students may not always receive the same discount on their study materials as students in higher and scientific education;]] [[whereas this is unfair;]] [[calls on the government to identify the bottlenecks that are causing this and to discuss with study material providers to improve this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33846-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. In a written consultation, the CDA group called for attention to be paid to the position of Muziekweb. Music Web has built up a unique music collection in sixty years. Many libraries use Muziekweb for the loan of CDs. The closing of libraries in March meant a noose for Muziekweb, because the lending of CDs stopped abruptly. The CDA Group would regret the fact that an accessible independent music service would cease to exist and the collection would disappear. That is why I have the next motion, signed by Mrs Belhaj of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many libraries no longer have their own audio collection because they use the services and the collection of Muziekweb;]] [[Whereas the unique music collection of Muziekweb should be preserved and the public tasks of music archive and library preserved;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine what is necessary to ensure the future of the Music Web collection and its access, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof before 1 February 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geluk-Poortvliet and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33846-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u15	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet about Muziekweb. How does this relate to Spotify, for example, where the accessibility is actually present from home, in order to be able to listen to all kinds of music and genres at home, as compared to actually going physically to the libraries? Because it seems to me that at this time we have to make choices about what we can do for libraries. They can't do everything. And just language retardation, learning skills, reading are important issues, but music can be listened to via Spotify. How does Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet see that balance between, in this case, Spotify and Muziekweb?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u16	Well, it's hard for me to weigh that balance, but I can see that the library is a public facility. There is a demand for music, they rejected it and it ended up at Muziekweb. And the libraries ask Muziekweb: do you have this or that kind of music? So it's actually a completely different move from Spotify.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u17	Then I have not quite understood what Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet means by 'a movement other than Spotify'. Because Spotify's collection, or catalog, is huge, maybe even bigger than that of Music Web. So I'm curious how she looks at that, while it's about that accessibility and the ease of people to listen to all genres and all kinds of music, which is also possible on Spotify.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u18	You can do that on Spotify. But I've been to Rotterdam, where they have a huge collection. That's where it's based. And those libraries can get it. It's just delicious; they have old records, they have all kinds of music. It's just really nice to be able to turn that off. So that way it works very differently from Spotify.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. You had come to the end of your term. I suggest that we suspend for a few minutes because the motions still have to be distributed, and then the Minister can prepare himself for that. I'll suspend for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u20	We deal with the evaluation of the Act system public library facilities, fixed book price and Royal Library. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to answer and appreciate the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u21	Yes, Mr. Chairman. A further five motions have been tabled, which I will give an appreciation. First of all, the motion in part No. 60 by Mr El Yassini on VAT and e-books. I also know the CBS study he is using, which shows that the reduction in VAT on e-books from 21% to 9% did not result in a one-on-one reduction in consumer prices. The Secretary of State for Finance, Taxation and the Tax Administration also asked the publishers for an explanation on this point. In this respect, the industry has reported that the investigation was carried out very shortly after the VAT reduction and that it is really too early to reach definitive conclusions, as there are also more factors affecting that pricing. That VAT reduction was made late in the year and the investigation was actually carried out in the six months after. I'll continue to talk to the secretary of state with the industry. By the way, the KB already benefits from the VAT reduction for digital publications in the online library, as this has an effect on their remuneration to right holders. By the way, the KB has informed me that the number of e-books for young people in the online library is increasing very rapidly. The number of 4,000 titles I mentioned in the report of the August written consultation has now risen to 7,000, i.e. almost double. And the increase in the number of titles continues steadily. Look, if you call me in the motion to enter into consultation, please. But you also say: use naming-and-shaming. Even so, it's really too early to say that the publishers didn't do it right. If you do that research in that first six months... There were also agreements that they were still bound to. If you make a VAT reduction in December, it is not immediately visible in the following months. Other factors also play a role in price formation. So it's a little more nuanced and a little more complex than Mr. El Yassini suggests. Of course we will continue to monitor this. We will also talk to the publishers and say that it is the intention that such a reduction in VAT should eventually be seen by the consumer and that they should do so as much as possible. But we also need to be real: there are other things that play a role in price formation. Of course, it would be nice if the financial space created by libraries could be used for the expansion of the collection, but that is already happening, because it is rising considerably.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u22	And your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u23	If the motion calls on me to hold that consultation, I am going to do so, but I think it is really too early for naming-and-shaming. I'm just not gonna do that part of the motion. It wouldn't be right to do that right now. So if Mr El Yassini asks me to hold the consultation, I say yes. But I really think it's too early to tell who's doing well and who's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u24	And your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u25	So with that coloring, it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u26	I think the minister and I are pretty much on the same page, so I think we'll figure it out. Returning to that taking and shaming: the motion literally states not to shun the means. Therefore, it is not called upon to use the medicine, but not to shun it. I also see it sometimes happening that the cabinet does not do so, despite the fact that a publisher can take advantage of such a situation. I welcome the fact that the Minister is talking to the publishers, but I want to make sure that the cabinet gets clear what these additional factors are. I can understand that with a VAT reduction in December, it will not be applied immediately when printing a physical book. But the beauty of e-books is that they are digital. That means you can switch much faster. I would therefore like to have a promise from the Minister that she will continue to talk, but that she will also, in the end, evaluate the reason why the price reduction has not continued and informs the Chamber. I also ask her to keep her finger on the pulse at the same time and, if things happen that cannot or cannot be tolerated, so that the drop in prices does not reach the consumer, to have the courage to deal with a number of publishers. We don't have to do that now, but we can do that in the near future, when the information is above the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u27	I think we're getting closer. Mr El Yassini knows that I never shy away from taking and shaming when that is the issue. I did it, for example, when a number of large companies were left behind in the recruitment of women. We also see that that can be quite effective. Only, you have to do it if you can rightly blame companies for leaving something that was actually meant to be. I have explained to you that it is now too early. We're gonna have that conversation, and we're definitely gonna keep our finger on the wrist. Because, you are absolutely right, that VAT reduction was of course meant to make e-books cheaper and thereby promote their use. So yes, we'll keep our finger on the pulse and we'll have a good talk with the publishers about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u28	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u29	Very briefly. I think we can agree, because taking and shaming is the only way you're gonna do it. With regard to the evaluation of why the price reduction has not been implemented, I would ask the Minister to inform the Chamber at least before 1 February. The talks are going on, so 1 February must really be a good date for the cabinet to have some more information about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u30	We will. Then there is the motion from Mr Van den Berge to item No. 61, on loan fees at the Library at school. That motion will be judged by Chamber. We are indeed committed to this in the covenant that we conclude. I therefore see this motion as a support to ensure that right holders receive their compensation. You know we have different types now, the school library and the library at school. There are different regimes for this, but the commitment, as you put it in the motion, is to make concrete agreements in the library agreement on these fees for loan rights. So this motion gets: Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u31	You have "judge chamber" eh, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u32	I'm very happy with "judge chamber," Mr. Chairman. I have only one supplementary question. I would normally do this at the votes, but I would probably not be in the Chamber because of all the corona restrictions. However, should this motion succeed, I would like to ask the Minister to report to us on progress in the legislative consultation on culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u33	Well, I guess I'll just have to see if we can get the Covenant around. But I estimate that over the next few weeks I will have some requests to inform you about something for the WHO Culture, so I imagine that we will take this into account in a collection letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 62 by Mrs Van den Hul. Of course, it sounds very sympathetic, but there is a big one, and Mrs Van den Hul knows that very well. During the previous cabinet period, my predecessor, Mrs Bussemaker, filed and defended the library law here. At that time, the Chamber voted in favour by a majority. You also know very well that, contrary to what your motion seems to suggest, the Empire has no supervisory role in how libraries carry out their legal tasks. All parties, i.e. Rijk, municipalities, provinces, libraries and the RB, are jointly responsible for an adequate system. All parties also support the principle that every resident in the Netherlands must have access to a public library within a reasonable distance. It doesn't say "in its own church" in the law. "Within a reasonable distance" can also be in another municipality. Municipalities can also agree on this. You are asking me to amend the law on this point. You are also well aware that, in the case of a legislative amendment leading to additional obligations for municipalities, this is true in this case, because it obliges a municipality to have its own library than in the law on financial relations that municipalities are compensated for. In this case, these costs are 80 million structural. Your motion, however sympathetic it may be, is therefore undecided. This amendment of the law leads to structural cost increases and I must therefore be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u36	The Minister is, of course, quite right: this costs a lot of money. But it is also a great success, because, as we have also exchanged in the previous debate, the library is so very important to tackle low literacy. So, yeah, it's a story that costs something and that's a lot of money. I know the Minister's party agrees with us. That is also in the new election programme, but the Minister is right to say that it costs money. So we shall certainly come back to that in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u37	I hope you'll provide me with cover. Maybe I could give you a heads-up. If you do that in the culture budget, I hope you will not take it elsewhere from the culture budget or, for example, from the lump sum of education. You will not find 80 million structurally in the budget of OCW, so I will give you a warning on that point. I do not think that you will find a great deal of support here in order to change things incredibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u38	Colleagues, we are already running from time to time. I actually think it is appropriate to give the first author the opportunity to ask a question. We did. Now, I think the co-subsidiaries want to ask a question, but I honestly think we should not do that. 'Cause we're really running out of time. There's just a difference of opinion between the Minister and the Chamber. The motion is just going to be put to the vote. I suggest that we continue the debate on this at a later date, with your permission, Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u39	I'll accept that, Mr. Chairman. I actually wanted to answer the Minister's question about cover. Then let me be very brief. As PvdA, SP and GroenLinks, we have tabled a counter-budget. The Minister will find cover in that. That is what we are going through with the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u40	Let's do that. Then I would ask the Minister to move on to the appreciation of the next motion. It belongs to Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u41	I could now take a full look at this counter-budget, because the money has to come from somewhere and that must at least be settled for the budget treatment of OCW. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 63 of Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Berge on the study materials for MBOs. At the time, the initiators of the bill for a fixed book prize, which were your party's and my party's, deliberately chose not to include school books in it, because research showed: it is not effective, it does not contribute and we should not do so. What you're referring to right now, if I see it correctly, is the student discount. We see that students in higher education often receive a discount on their study books with their student card; this is done to a much lesser extent by MBO students. You are asking me to enter into consultations with a view to resolving this problem. I share with you the commitment to give MBO students the same position in society as students in higher education as much as possible. So, yeah, I'm gonna bet they can get that discount with an MBO card. So this motion gets judgment, Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the motion in part No. Sixty-four from Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. She is absolutely right that the position of CDR and Muziekweb is shaky. Together with the KB and the Netherlands Institute for Sound and Vision, they are now investigating whether there are possibilities for a viable plan for the future. This concerns both the physical collection and the digital services. We have agreed that until we have a good plan for this, the KB will continue funding. As soon as we have the plan, I'll inform the Chamber. Following Mr El Yassini's interruption, you mentioned Spotify. But Spotify is a market party. For example, there are very special music collections. I really think that we have a public responsibility for securing these kinds of collections towards the future. For a lot of people, for example for people who do research on different performances of a piece or Dutch composers, it is very important that we guarantee our very special collection of audiences. I really see that as a public task. So this motion gets judgment, Chamber. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thank you. Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet, your motion has been given a verdict Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u43	I thank the Minister, because it is very important that the musical heritage is preserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u44	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the VSO Evaluation Act system public library facilities, fixed book prize and Koninklijke Bibliotheek.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-5.u45	Voting on the motions submitted to this VSO will take place next Tuesday. We'll go straight to the next VSO.
