ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. I would again like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration to the Upper House. The Secretary of State will address back complaints sitting down. I understand that Mr Van Rooijen wishes to amend his motion, which he tabled when examining the Tax Plan 2020 Bill on 10 December 2019, on a State Tax Review Committee (35302, letter K). He asked for a short third deadline for this. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case. Following this third deadline, the vote on the amended motion will take place. I would like to inform Mr Van Rooijen that he himself should read the text of his amended motion and can then put it on the table on the left of the saliva. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased to be able to debate for the first time with one of the two new Secretary of State for Finance, with Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Service. As a former colleague, I wish him every success in this heavy task. On 18 May, this Secretary of State presented the Buildstones for a better tax system to the House of Representatives. This is to implement the commitment made by the former State Secretary in 2019. At the beginning of 2020, building blocks and proposals for improvements and simplification of the tax system would be delivered, identifying bottlenecks and providing a perspective for solutions. In his letter of 15 April 2019, the previous State Secretary had subsequently explained the process of achieving these building blocks. In the letter of 18 May, this Secretary of State says: the crisis caused by the outbreak of the coronavirus has not played a role in drawing up the policy options. According to the State Secretary, the building block report is an administrative route without political direction, with the aim of providing the detailed policy options for the next cabinet. Scientists, opinion makers and civil society organisations have been involved in seminars and stakeholder meetings. On 15 April 2020, the State Secretary presented the report to the House of Representatives, prepared by the independent advisory committee that specifically advised on the taxation of multinationals. The committee was led by Ter Haar. The foregoing gives me an introduction to amend Van Rooijen's motion, tabled on 10 December, under 38502 (K). In the motion to be amended, I would like to see a set-up that is in line with the Advisory Committee on the Taxation of Multinationals. I do not want to set up a state committee, at least under that name, as is stated in the present motion. I have the impression that a state committee could be a little too far away from what the Ministry would consider desirable. I ask the Secretary of State whether that impression is correct and whether the replacement of a state committee by an advisory committee, as is the case with the multinational committee, would be a step in his direction. My second question is whether he agrees with me that, as a result of the reports on building blocks for a better tax system of 18 May, an independent advisory committee is now urgently needed. After all, it is not an official report, but an independent, authoritative report by tax experts. The aim for my group would be to achieve a coherent, consistent, overall blueprint for a new and simplified system that is also feasible, with a great deal of emphasis, for the Tax Administration. We must not lose sight of that. The official report consists of no less than 10 different surveys on the full breadth of the tax system and is accompanied by building blocks for a better tax system. Hundreds of pages. A maze. The latest report on reform is the report of the Van Dijkhuizen Commission, from 2012/2013. There is an image that there will be a report on the reform of the tax system roughly every 10 years and a reform of the system itself roughly every 10 years. In the letter of 18 May, the Secretary of State mentions the urgency of the bottlenecks in the system and the contribution that the building blocks can make to a solution to this problem. According to the 50PLUS Group, it is therefore high time for a new opinion, especially since such an opinion can serve the next cabinet and the previous cabinet formation. One more reason is that the Tax Administration "is in charge of a simple design of the policy proposals," said this Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I have changed the motion more than I originally intended, particularly following the letter of 18 May with the official report on the building blocks. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Secretary of State for Finance Filipino issued reports on 18 May 2020 on building blocks for a better tax system;]] [[Whereas this is a technical and administrative process which has identified policy options and reforms;]] [[Whereas independent external research has added value and is therefore desirable;]] [[having regard to the report of an independent advisory committee on the taxation of multinationals presented to the House of Representatives by the Secretary of State for Finance on 15 April 2020;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to set up an independent advisory committee to propose the revision and simplification of the tax system;]] [[invites the Cabinet to forward the proposals of the Consultative Commission to both Chambers by the end of 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35202-R]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Would you put the motion on the table, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr President, I have one final sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u6	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u7	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that groups need to make a good judgement on the substantially amended motion. That is why we would like to consider holding the motion for a resolution for one or more weeks. That will also give the Secretary of State time for more reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Van Rooijen proposes to put the motion to the vote next week? Is that your request?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u9	Or something to hold on to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u10	Or to hold on to it. For an unlimited period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u12	So you'll make that request immediately when you file the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u13	Secretary of State, will you be able to answer directly? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks for letting me be here. It's a beautiful room. There's a shitty library of reports on the tax system. In that sense, this Secretary of State is a blessed man. We have not just published the building blocks, which may be a design for a better tax system. There is also a bundle of professors Cnossen and Jacobs, there is a CPB study Kansrijk tax policy and there is an Advisory Committee on Taxing Multinationals. Mr Van Rooijen already referred to the latter. In short, it's a crappy library, as they would say. Then the question is: is it wise to appoint a consultative committee again? You can already hear from my voice that I am not very enthusiastic about that. I actually have two reasons for that. The first reason is related to the second. My impression is that in order to come up with a coherent package of proposals now, we need, above all, a political weighting. It is not the case that the proposals contained in the reports are unclear. I admit there are a lot of them, but they're not unclear. Now, above all, political weighting is needed in order to come up with a proposal for simplification, which Mr Van Rooijen, through his committee, is also asking for. My second argument is that Mr Van Rooijen referred to the Van Dijkhuizen Committee. There have been a number of other committees before that. Experience with administrative advisory committees on the design of a new tax system has not been very positive in recent years. There's a reason for that. It's connected to the first one. There are a lot of choices that are quite politically motivated. I would therefore advise against Mr Van Rooijen's proposal to set up an administrative advisory committee. With that, I would like to discourage the motion. I can imagine that Mr Van Rooijen may be holding the motion because I would like to see if I can help with the request for information, so I understand Mr Van Rooijen and perhaps wider in this Chamber. This could be done through oral hearings in which the members of committees answer questions here. It can also be done by means of a written consultation, and there are perhaps other forms that can be envisaged. I would like to think about this for a moment, but the idea of an independent committee taking six months is less appealing to me in that sense. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-8.u16	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments pending the return of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
