ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Passport Act relating to the introduction of electronic identification with a public means of identification and the extension of the basic register of travel documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u2	We have four speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mr Middendorp of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. He's gonna talk to us for 15 minutes. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. The proposed amendments to the Passport Act ensure that we improve the registration of travel documents, improve the system and improve its reliability and build in electronic facilities. That's important for our safety. Combating identity fraud is important for all kinds of subjects, from home fraud to protecting our borders. Mr. Chairman. In 2017, we adopted laws to withdraw the Dutch identity of terrorists and prevent them from returning to the Netherlands. The VVD wants to do everything possible to prevent the return of terrorists, and now we have the chance to make the Netherlands a bit safer. We can do that by adding a ground for refusal to this Passport Act, by saying "if you have joined a terrorist organization, you will not get a passport and then we have the right to refuse you a passport." This not only brings this Passport Act to the fore, but we are also taking a step towards making our country safer. This can now be settled and that is why I tabled an amendment together with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u4	That is the amendment to item No. 15, I say. A question from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u5	Good evening, Mr. Chairman. I wonder a little what Mr Middendorp is up to now. Anyone who studies this proposal for more than two minutes knows that it is contrary to several international conventions, first of all the International Civil Rights Convention, Article 12 (4). It clearly states that you cannot randomly deprive anyone of the right to return to their own territory. For example, the ECHR also speaks in a similar way about not being able to deprive people of this right. The VVD now proposes this in a law on the granting of passports, but it should of course have done so when dealing with legislation on Dutch citizenship. I read it early this morning on RTL News. The CDA is not present at all, nor is the VVD colleague who brought this out. Does Mr. Middendorp have any Corvee? At least I hope he will be able to give good answers to these questions, because this really doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u6	I note that Mr Verhoeven has looked at the amendment for more than two minutes. That's good news. Do I have a corvee? I'm the spokesman on the Passport Act, and he's gonna have to do it with me tonight. The question was whether we would stop people from returning to our territory. For terrorists, that's for sure. Mr Verhoeven said that you cannot refuse them to return. It is true that we want to refuse a passport in this amendment. According to international treaties, this means that they are still receiving an emergency document, Mr Verhoeven is right. But that is not what this amendment is about either. It's about us refusing them a passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr Middendorp simply admits that it is symbolic, because, indeed, an emergency document will be strengthened on the basis of international treaties. This allows people to enter the Netherlands. So what the VVD wants to avoid is not happening with this proposal. Why is the VVD making this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u8	That's not symbolic at all, because it doesn't matter if you get a passport or an emergency document. We don't want them to get a passport. In addition, there are a number of other things that are covered in this amendment. Not only if you suspect that people are going to travel and commit terrorist crimes, but also if you have found that they have committed terrorist crimes, we want them to be denied a passport. We do not think that we should give these people a Dutch passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u9	Finally. Let's talk about the international treaties. You can find politics from the question of how to deal with people who return as a former jihad warrior or with people who return from terrorist territory. We often have discussions about that. But what the VVD is proposing is contrary to international treaties. Does the VVD know that? Doesn't the VVD care that there are international treaties that say you can't randomly refuse anyone access to their territory? Or does the VVD say: we know that, but we do know that this is not going to make it in the end; we know that this is not going to lead to a majority after all, so it is actually for the stage? Or does the VVD say that we are breaking international treaties that protect all citizens from this kind of proposal, to our boots? If the VVD says that, then I really want to hear it from Mr Middendorp. Then I'd just like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr Verhoeven said that you can differ on whether or not you should stop those people from coming here. We disagree on that. Well, I think he's pretty familiar with that. That is exactly what we are trying to do here. We want to do everything we can to stop these people, and this raises an additional threshold. Mr Verhoeven referred to the international treaties. We think we can do this. We are convinced that this will make our country safer. So, yes, this is what we want. I have already explained to Mr Verhoeven that we also included those international conventions in the issue of that emergency document.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u11	Very soon, possibly next week, we will be dealing here with the Digital Government Act. That is a comprehensive, quite technical and fairly tough law. As a very small part of that, we are dealing here tonight with an amendment to the Passport Act. That has a very technical reason. It has to be a national law. And now the VVD and the CDA, which isn't even represented, are now suddenly taking on a very politically controversial subject. They do so by means of an amendment, by means of a law dealing with a derived law of another law. I think we should take ourselves seriously as a parliament. If there is a serious proposal that requires a serious change of law, then a law must simply be tabled by the VVD. That's a serious game, at least that's what I've always understood. If this is a serious political proposal, then we simply need a law. That law should simply go to the Council of State so that we can prepare ourselves for it in writing as we do in any legal process. That way, I think you should deal with such a subject. This is a very political quickie for the media by MPs who are not here and let Mr. Middendorp here do some homework by a completely different law, which again has to do with a completely different law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u12	Nor is it entirely clear to me whether Mr Van Raak is happy that I am standing here, but I repeat that I am the spokesman on this law. So I'll give him an answer. He almost seduces me to talk about the Digital Government Act. I like that, but I think it's too soon. To get back to his trial description: I am standing here because we want to do everything we can to stop terrorists who want to travel back. I am standing here trying to raise an additional threshold, as we have included in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u13	We are here for serious legislation. What the VVD is doing here, regardless of its content, is not serious legislation. In doing so, the CDA, which is not present, and the VVD simply do not take the process of legislation seriously, and therefore this Chamber does not take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u14	I wonder whether Mr Van Raak is taking the amendment of VVD and CDA seriously. I think this is a very serious amendment. I think that this addition to Article 23 is a very good addition to the law that is now in force. I would remind Mr Van Raak that now is the time to amend the Passport Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u15	Mr President, very briefly, because we are not going to get out of this. This is the wrong window. He must be at the Rijkswet which deals with Dutch citizenship. However, Mr Middendorp wishes to table this amendment. I think he can do that, but then I'd like to ask him the following. Is Mr Middendorp prepared to ask the Council of State for an opinion on this amendment before we vote on it? If Mr Middendorp says that this is a serious proposal, when it is actually being biked through a law that is not at all about it, then I think that we, as a Chamber, should also be given the opportunity to get a serious opinion from the Council of State on this amendment. So that's what I'd like to ask him. Is he willing to make that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u16	Mr Verhoeven said that the amendment should be tabled elsewhere. I don't share that opinion. On his question, I say that the amendment has already been tabled and we think that we should put it to the vote. That's why we filed it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u17	Yes, because it has already been submitted, that may be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u18	The Chamber itself can judge when we vote on this. My proposal is to seek advice from the Council of State, which can do so fairly quickly. There are always possibilities for this, especially in such a limited part of the law. They may need two weeks for that. I would say: ask the Council of State for advice before the House votes on this amendment. That is the request I make on behalf of my party to Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u19	On behalf of my party, I can answer Mr Verhoeven that if there is no majority in favour of the amendment, we will lose valuable time in itself. Then we know that we must first go to the Council of State, as proposed by Mr Verhoeven. In any case, we will continue to work to make a new attempt to ensure that we can create a threshold for those terrorists who want to travel back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u20	Mrs Özütok still, or wasn't she supposed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u21	I would like to continue with that advice from the Council of State. You're hoping you'll get a majority here. When it comes to the proper handling of legislation, to which other colleagues have also referred, we must also be given careful advice. We appreciate that, too. On that basis, we shall consider the matter. What is wrong with not choosing that route in your amendment, which has a lot of doubts about how it works, but also in relation to international treaties, to submit it to the Council of State for its opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u22	I will not repeat myself, but I can add that, in the context of proper treatment, I will wait for what the cabinet has to say about this. And then about the voting. If the Chamber thinks that we should first go to the Council of State, then the amendment probably does not make it, then there does not seem to be a majority for it. Then we will lose valuable time, but we will continue to work on another attempt. First of all, I'm curious to hear what the cabinet thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u23	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr. Chairman. Technological developments go fast and legislation is sometimes more than half a century old. For passport registration, different systems and decentralised registers are used. The fact that we are now working with a central register for people's request data is a good step. This amendment also regulates the placing of an electronic means of identification on travel documents. These are good steps, because that makes the register better and easier to consult. And that is very important for our security, as we have seen in the interruptions, and for a lot of other things. The extension of the existing basic register of travel documents to include new data and functionalities makes it easier to prevent fraud and abuse. We have just seen that this fits in with the VVD in order to use new technology and tackle things differently to make our country safer, in this case by improving the travel document system. What is the flexibility of this system? That is an important question I am asking the Minister. It'll be a complex project. I want to make sure that the implementation of the project is in order. Then I would like to ask two more questions: about the finances and the timetable. Ending the decentralised tracking of travel document data means that data must be deleted and that systems will exist alongside each other for some time. This is complicated. How is this dealt with and how do we keep a grip on costs and on the project? Secondly, the plan was to make this central register operational in autumn 2020. It's now the end of January. Is that ambition still there? If not, what will be the next ambition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u25	That was a little faster than the fifteen minutes you gave up...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u26	I know your preference for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u27	...but you don't hear me protesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u29	Mrs Özütok of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a state law that will create a legal basis for adding an electronic identifier to an identity document and for extending the basic register travel documents. It is a rather technical proposal, but it is a good thing that we are discussing it here today and with the Minister. GroenLinks understands the importance of organising electronic identification as safely as possible. It's a good thing we're dealing with this in a state law. However, my group still has a number of questions. We would like to have the Minister's answer to that before we make a proper assessment of the present legislative proposal. It is good that, with future developments in perspective, we are also modernising the provision of services to citizens by public authorities and semi-public institutions and making them future-proof and thus working to ensure a better digital service. Perhaps also because this bill is not primarily about this, I would like to say once again that GroenLinks believes that digital services are very good, but should not be at the expense of services to people who are not digitally skilled. I know that this Minister shares this view, but I would like to hear the Minister confirm that once again. Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum, we read that the legal possibilities created by this bill will initially only apply to identity documents. Later on, the passport and, for example, the driving licence can also be equipped with this technology. I would like to receive a further explanation from the Minister of this phase and of the choices that are now to be made. Can he indicate on the basis of which criteria will it be decided whether or not to provide the passport with this technology? Mr. Chairman. Then it's about security. We can see that there is a lot to be done about the security of digital work environments, for example that of supplier Citrix. I do not want to make a substantive comparison with this bill, but we are also creating a possibility in which the protection of personal and fraud sensitive information is crucial. How is the cabinet going to make sure that this chip and the software that is going to be used are really safe? How do we ensure that the government does not become entirely dependent on one supplier and one product? What is the Minister's view of the possibility of organising and directing these processes more directly? Mr. Chairman. Another important point for GroenLinks is the careful handling of personal data. Personal data should only be shared if there is a need for it. As far as possible, data leaks should be avoided when sharing this data. In response to this bill, the Dutch Data Protection Authority made quite a number of comments. For example, the Authority made very critical comments on the following points: the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity, the data protection impact assessment, the joint processing responsibilities, the public interest, the legitimate interest, data minimisation, the central basic register travel documents, pseudonymisation, the login process and the delegation to lower regulation. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot going on. On most of these points, the Minister gave a clarification or amended the legal text or the explanatory memorandum. In some cases, it is difficult for the Court to assess whether these responses have been adequately processed in all cases, also because the technical implementation of the legal possibilities created by this proposal still has to take place and the practice will have to learn whether all privacy guarantees have been adequately processed. I would like to ask the Minister to involve the Personal Data Authority closely in the next steps and, for example, to use ethical hackers, also to ensure that possible vulnerabilities are identified and clarified before the personal data are actually used through this new route. If you adopt this bill, we have created a legal basis, but it has yet to be implemented technically. In recent years, we have often seen that ICT projects in the government unfortunately fail. Can the Minister take us into account, just in anticipation of the entry into force of this law, how the implementation of the legal possibility goes? In other words, how do we get from a legislative proposal to a watertight technological application of the legal option? That's my question. It would be good for both us and the Chamber as well as for the people who are following the debate to have the Minister explain to us again in his distinctively clear explanation exactly what this is about. Mr. Chairman. One more question about cooperation with other countries in the Kingdom. The legal basis for electronic identity is regulated by state law, because the Passport Act is a Kingdom matter. If I understand correctly, the national laws in the other countries are not yet ready to use an electronic identity in those countries as well. How is there cooperation with other countries in this area? Can the Netherlands, for example, support the other countries in setting up safe systems? Finally, a question about the basic register of travel documents. In response to the input of the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, the cabinet writes that it is the desire to move away from the decentralised travel document application and archive stations, the so-called RAAS-en. Is this included in the ongoing renewal of the travel document system? Can the Minister give an up-to-date state of play on this renewal? Can he indicate when the wishes of the municipalities will be specifically addressed in this process of renewal? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u31	Thank you. Then Mr Van Raak of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Next week, or at least soon, we'll be discussing the Digital Government Act. It's about the Netherlands. We are discussing a small part of this today: the amendment of the Passport Act. Because we share the passport with the inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. The Secretary of State knows that like no other. But if you look closely, this law isn't about the passport at all. What are we going to do? We're gonna make a new electronic identification possible as a replacement for DigiD. That's what we do for the driver's license and for the ID card, the identification card, and not for the passport. What about people like me? I do have a passport, but I don't have a driver's license. You want me to buy one of those cards later? Do all people have to go and buy a card like that? Why isn't it just done with the passport? Why does it have to be double? I also see that we are discussing this law here because we are dealing with a passport that we share with residents of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, but I do not yet see how this law has any influence on those inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. What I do see is that it is going to be more expensive, because the cost of this new means of identification will be taken into account, calculated, into that map. That is remarkable for a number of reasons. For example, if citizens do not want to use electronic identification, they have to pay for it. I was wondering if that's true, because if you pay for something like that to the city, you're paying for a service. So now you have to pay for something you don't use, so for a service that isn't delivered. Can the Minister explain how that works? Can you just ask people to pay for something they don't get? I also wondered what it would be like if they had just purchased a card, for example a year ago. Then that card is still valid for nine years, but then you can't identify yourself for nine years, so you have to request another card. And people who don't have the right phone will soon have to buy some kind of reader, a card reader. The Minister says that it's going to cost a few tens, but we don't know how much and we don't know what kind of card reader it's going to be. So I ask the Minister: what is all this going to cost? I also see that others, third parties, such as banks and financial institutions, will soon be able to use this means of verification. They must have a legitimate interest in this. I ask the Minister what is a legitimate interest. It can be arranged through a general measure of governance; then we don't see any of it as a Chamber anymore. I have to say honestly: I do not have the most confidence in banks and financial institutions for something sensitive like online identification; quite the contrary. That confidence does not grow, for example, when I read that banks are increasingly using payment data to make money. In addition, we will soon be able to use private means of logging in. I think that's totally dangerous. I think identification is a public matter, a public task. Why does the Minister want to leave that to private companies? To banks, financial institutions, Microsoft or perhaps Google? Who else? Citrix maybe? All companies we have such good experiences with. So I wonder how that can be reconciled, because these companies, like payment data, will soon be using this kind of data to make money. They're gonna sell that data. The commercial pressure will be enormous. They're commercial companies; it's their earning model to start making money with that data. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u33	There is a question from Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u34	I think that the identification of citizens in the Netherlands is indeed a task of the State, but with the description just given by Mr Van Raak, I wonder if he thinks that all the logging services, all the identification services that are now available, should be provided by the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u35	I find it very dangerous if it is commercial, if there are commercial interests. This has to do with security, this has to do with trust. This must be a public service. I hope the VVD gets a little less hard learner. These kinds of companies have commercial interests. To the depths of their fibers, to paraphrase the Prime Minister once again, they will be inclined to exploit this commercially. So I don't have much faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u36	I am a little more optimistic about that, if I may quote the Prime Minister. I think Mr Van Raak is confusing two things. For some login systems, the government does not have the knowledge to make them at all. That's one. DigiD is its own government login system. I have no objection to that. It's a good system. That's what we all agreed on. I wonder whether Mr Van Raak will not underestimate the extent to which innovation is possible if we are also able to develop means of logging into the private market. I agree with Mr Van Raak that, for example, a passport must be issued by the State. That's a state task. But getting all the logging in, like logging in to a commercial web store, by the State, seems a little far-reaching. That also destroys the innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u37	Well, I guess a lot of viewers, when they watch, have a little less faith. Mr Middendorp is right that at the moment the government may not have the knowledge and skills to develop it itself. But you have to solve the right problem: you have to make sure that the government does have that knowledge and skills. You don't have to outsource everything, like the VVD wants, because then we'll never get that knowledge and skill in the house. Public tasks, public money, public execution. That's how simple life is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u38	I think we're gonna have a lot more on that last one next week. And all those Dutch people watching, they just log in to those commercial web stores. But that doesn't mean that the government doesn't propose any other way than Mr Van Raak can arrange for that to be done safely, that we can control it as far as we want it as a government and that it doesn't destroy the innovation. But I'm sure Mr Van Raak agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u39	I would, of course, like to answer Mr Middendorp, but he is a bit finished tonight. By tabling an amendment which should have been tabled by a completely different law, namely the National Citizenship Act, it is a bit finished. So yes, I am also very curious to see what the Minister thinks about the amendment tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Van Toorenburg. I wonder if the minister was as surprised as we were. Does the Minister agree that if you make such a proposal, if you need proper parliamentary treatment, with an opinion from the Council of State, a good written examination in the House of Representatives and a proper treatment of the law here in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u40	Now we are going back to an earlier interrupting debate, while Mr Middendorp simply asked you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u41	Yeah, we don't agree. But this question was for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u42	That's right. Mr Van Raak says I'm finished. I just note that Mr Van Raak is actually talking here about the Digital Government Act as far as identification and the question of whether it should be private or public. So I find that Mr Van Raak clearly agrees with me that he is also a bit finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u43	Mr. Middendorp is a bit finished. Mrs Van Toorenburg is very much finished, because she didn't even show up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u44	Well, then the founding closure, a piece of connection, must come from Mr Verhoeven again. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u45	Well, who knows later in the evening. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I will also have a few comments on the substance of this law in a moment, but I find it a mockery. I find it a mockery that the VVD comes up with a proposal that is linked to a law that is indeed being dealt with here for the very reason that Mr Van Raak has indicated, while the proposal is actually part of the Digital Government Act that we are discussing next week. It is a false amendment, it is contrary to international treaties, and then it comes here to submit! Everyone's surprised. And then I say, well, at least do it on the route of the Council of State, then you show some respect for Parliament. And we won't get an answer to that. I shall perhaps make a proposal on this in the second term. We have a habit of not speaking here about parties that are not present. But it is, of course, really embarrassing, and I seriously believe that the CDA has the guts to launch such a far-reaching proposal on the news in the morning and then is not present at the debate. At least Mr Middendorp is still here, but I think that the CDA is not here is quite a mockery. I know the Minister agrees with me. I know the minister happens to be from the CDA, too, and there's nothing he can do about it. I am very interested in his opinion on the substance of the matter. But that the CDA is not here when it is simply presenting a proposal that should normally have been defended in Parliament, as Mr Middendorp tried to do, I find a mockery. And then there's one more thing I want to say. If this amendment were to reach a majority, it would, in my political opinion, have to be achieved with the PVV, Forum for Democracy, Christian Union, SGP, CDA and 50PLUS, together with the VVD. Of those parties, those six parties that should help this amendment to a majority, none are present here. So there is a danger that something will happen now, that a proposal will be tabled, that a party or six or seven will be able to help a majority without six of the seven parties who are going to vote for it being present to debate that proposal. I think that's a really wrong development. That is my point about the political process, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u46	That is what my comments and questions are about. Mr Verhoeven talks about the political process which is exciting in itself, but should he not speak a little more about the law that we are amending and perhaps the ways not to allow terrorists to travel back to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u47	But that's what he's gonna do now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u48	I hope so. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u49	This law is not about whether or not terrorists return. We have had a lot of debates on this and D66 has always been clear about it; we have never hid from it. This law isn't about that. You're riding it improperly. If you have any guts, make sure that your coalition friend from the CDA with whom you do this is present here, that you go to the Council of State for an opinion and that the Chamber can get that advice. After we get that advice, we can vote on it. I would also like to say a number of substantive things about this law, Mr President, but they are absolutely not about the point that Mr Middendorp has tried to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u50	Let me conclude briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u51	I'm not worried, so to speak. I wouldn't do that either if I were Mr Verhoeven. I would look at Article 23 of this law, which lays down a ground for refusal of a passport. I would look for more than two minutes at the amendment of the VVD and the CDA, which adds a new ground for refusal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u52	Absolutely, Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the amendment, following on from Mr Middendorp's question. I've been watching that. What the VVD proposes is contrary to several international conventions. The VVD didn't want to answer that. They just say, "Yes, we just want this." I would then ask the Council of State for advice in order to be able to make this assessment. I am very curious to see whether Mr Middendorp agrees. Then about this law, because that's what we're here for. The Netherlands is under digital attack. We've been able to see it for the past few weeks. This is not about that either, but in a way it has become clear that we are all vulnerable when we introduce large digital systems into our society. It is therefore also necessary to think about this constantly as a Chamber. The law we deal with today regulates that we have a higher level of reliability with the government when logging in via DigiD. By reading the chip on your ID card with your mobile phone, we can log in more securely. That's good. Only a username and password is not enough; you must now also show via SMS authentication that it is you. I still have a number of questions, on three points. The first is safety. Our digital infrastructure must be safe and reliable; we have often talked about this. It's a public identification device on the ID card. If that's what comes out of this law, you need to know 24/7, if someone's using the ID card, that that ID card is in use and that it's still valid. So you need to be able to check it all the time. You will therefore need to be able to check continuously whether the ID card in question is valid and whether the chip has been activated. That's going to happen in a central file. I understand that thought, but I have a few questions about it. Has there been any thought about alternatives to central storage? Why didn't these do? With central storage there is of course always a big risk, namely that you only have to break into one place to have everything. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. How does he take away the risks of this central storage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u53	You mean "the minister," of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u54	Excuse me. What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u55	You said the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u56	Oh, excuse me. That is the power of habit, but indeed: the minister. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to hear from the Minister: who will have access to the central register? Is there an exhaustive list of them? How has it been attempted to minimise the amount of data entered in this register? For example, are there personal data in the file in addition to the request data? In addition to the central system with the general data on travel documents, there will be a storage of biometric data. It does not contain the fingerprint, but it does store a photo in a separate government data centre, according to the Minister. But these data would also remain under decentralised responsibility. How about this? Is it centralized or not? Who has access to this? How is this database protected and how do we prevent identity fraud? My second point concerns the point made by Mrs Özütok: user-friendliness. Mr. Van Raak has also made comments about it. Of course, as many people as possible should be able to log in safely. Can the government force us to do it this way? There are about 8 million people with only a passport and no ID card. How many of these people have a driver's license, for example? Do these people, if they don't have a driver's license, have to purchase an ID card? Should people without a smartphone buy one from the government? Do they have to buy a card reader? Is logging in with ID card or driving licence with chip required by some governments? In a letter the Minister writes that DigiD's theoretical coverage has substantially increased to 65%. 65% is two thirds. So two out of three people are covered in this way, but one out of three people are not. Will the Minister try to raise this percentage and, if so, how will he do that? And what percentage is the goal he wants to achieve? Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that it is quite complicated for the elderly and others who are not used to a smartphone. What is the Minister doing to ensure that they too can come? What are the alternatives? I also have a question about the dependence of smartphones. This is an NFC chip. It needs to be read out and that can only be done when the smartphone software makes that possible. With Samsung it may be possible and with Apple it will be possible soon, but it may also be possible for American companies that don't have a lot of messages about this at all, to make a different decision about whether or not to use certain software on their phones. So to what extent do we depend on the producers of smartphones outside the Netherlands and Europe? People are going to pay partly for this system themselves. The cost of an ID card, the fee, will go up. How much does that fee go up? Does the Minister think it is fair that people who do not want to use the chip should pay for it? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the Dutch abroad, also a large group. For them it is already very complicated to log in with DigiD. Without bsn, without a civil service number, Dutch people cannot use this new system anyway. How's that going? I ask, because Dutch people abroad with a social security number do not always have an ID card or driver's license. If they do, can they receive the activation code by post, for example? How does this system work outside the Netherlands? Does the Minister have a special plan of action to assist Dutch people abroad? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns ICT projects. Years ago, this Chamber carried out an investigation into this subject under the direction of Mr Elias. He's brought out some insights based on his research. False ICT projects often have a number of causes: insufficient knowledge, not knowing what to buy, too high expectations at the beginning, wanting to roll everything out at once, not working step by step. It is things that are constantly coming back to all ICT projects that fail. We also held a hearing on this last year, and we have often discussed it with the Minister. The failing ICT projects are, of course, still the order of the day. Several ministries are also involved at the moment. The Elias Committee said that these projects should be better organised. What lessons has the Minister, in particular, taken on board in this rather extensive and potentially very vulnerable project? Is it going to happen in small steps, for example? How's he gonna organize it? Do we make intermediate steps and intermediate reports, so you can turn halfway instead of wandering? Is external hire used and to what extent does it take place? What are the estimated costs and is it true that they are already higher than have been communicated to the Chamber? If the Minister is honest, does he see any risks to this project? What risks does he see in this project at the moment? Finally, Mr President. The BIT advised on the eID programme in 2016. How did the Minister handle the BIT recommendations? I would also like to hear an answer to this last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u57	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend until 8:20, and then we're gonna listen to the minister. I find that Citrix is doing it again with us as chambermates. So we can e-mail cell phones again. Our calendars are also being synchronized. So we're all up and running again as House of Representatives. Yeah, a small step for man, one giant leap for mankind. Twenty past twenty we're gonna listen to the minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u58	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. As far as I am concerned, the Passport Act, which we are discussing tonight, has two important objectives. Firstly, the creation of a central travel document administration and, secondly, the introduction of an electronic identity card. This will allow, after the adoption and entry into force of the Digital Government Act, which hopefully will soon be dealt with in the Chamber, to do business with the government on the digital road at a high level of reliability. First of all, I would like to say something about the central register of travel documents. Currently, the data of issued travel documents are stored in travel documents administrations with all issuing authorities. So that is a very large number of administrations. This legislative proposal seeks and aims to reduce the fragmentation of these registrations, thereby reducing the risk of fraud or abuse of travel documents even more. In addition, data from citizens who are required for different legal purposes can now be recorded in one place, so that citizens do not have to give them to the public authorities several times and this data is stored in as few places as possible. The extension of the current basic register from a negative register to a positive register means that it will no longer contain only the travel documents which may not be in circulation, but will contain the data of all documents and the applications for all documents. With the extension of the register, there will be more opportunities to combat fraud and abuse of travel documents, as more data will be stored on more travel documents. This register better protects citizens against fraud and abuse of a document, for example if they have reported this document missing. This can be registered more quickly and authorities can learn more quickly about this registration. This bill also protects citizens' privacy more effectively, by taking technical and organisational measures and by regulating data processing strictly and of course GDPR proof. Finally, this central register can also directly detect duplicate applications for travel documents and shopping from different issuing bodies. This is not only in the interests of citizens, but also of all the public authorities responsible for issuing travel documents: all the Dutch municipalities, the public bodies, the Governor's Office and the Civil Affairs Department in the Caribbean countries, and of course our posts abroad. This will ultimately lead to a more efficient and reliable application and issuance process for them. Processes can be digitised, the issuing authorities use central facilities and management costs are reduced. In the long term, it will largely replace the current obsolete and costly decentralised travel document systems. This replacement is expected to be completed in two years' time. As far as planning is concerned, the full turn from negative to positive register with all functionalities is expected to be in effect at the end of 2024, early 2025. Mr. Chairman. I have a few points to make and then I come to the questions raised by Members. Then I would like to say something about the introduction of the electronic identity card, DigiD High Login, which is important in order to be able to communicate with the government in the context of that Do Act. In order to achieve a higher reach of DigiD, in addition to the driving licence, which has been equipped with it since 2018, the Dutch identity card is now also a carrier of the electronic identifier. It therefore receives an additional chip, so that the identity card services can also be taken electronically, for which the highest level of reliability is necessary, for example in the care, for the transmission of patient data. DigiD high should also be available to all Dutch people abroad. The eNIK, as we call the electronic Dutch identity card, will therefore be provided at the Dutch posts abroad to all Dutch people abroad, who have a bsn number. This change of law is linked to the legislative proposal of the Digital Government Act, which allows safer access to electronic services by the government. The linking of physical ID documents to digital identification and authentication is necessary for the reliability and security of our services. It is a state law, as has already been said by a number of Members. This means that this law applies both in the Caribbean countries and in the Caribbean Netherlands. The Caribbean countries of the Kingdom are closely involved in this bill of state law, and I welcome the intensive and constructive cooperation we have had with them in the run-up to this. Especially for Dutch residents living in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, and there are quite a few, it is important that they can use DigiD-high, and that they can also apply for it on the spot. Therefore, it is also provided that the Dutch who live in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom may apply for the electronic identity card, provided that they have a bsn and are registered in the Registration Non-residents of the BRP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u60	Mr Van Raak on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u61	We're talking about the Passport Act. Why isn't this happening on the passport? That's much more convenient, isn't it? Because there are more people who have passports than people with cards like that. People who don't have a passport have to go back to buying one of those cards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u62	Yeah, that's true, but most people have a driver's license or an I.D. There are currently 11.7 million people who have a driver's license. That's a lot of them. Six million people have IDs. There are, of course, a number of doubles in that. 2.2 million people only have passports. If you look at the level of coverage, it is therefore much wiser to use driver's license and identity card. This means that people who have to log in digitally at a high level and who do have a passport but do not have a driver's license will have to purchase an identity card. For the people who want it, that is indeed a problem. But the coverage rate is highest when we do this this way. The moment we say that we should do this also for the passport, it will lead to more costs. The question is whether the coverage rate will increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u63	That's a bit of a weird argument. You have to make sure that every Dutchman can make use of this. I do not quite understand why it is done on the driving licence and why it is done on the identity card, and why not on the passport. The minister will then calculate with all sorts of groups that would overlap, and this and that and sister and so on. But I think it's just a public service that should be offered to every citizen. Why would it be so much more expensive if all this is already being developed for the driving licence and if all this is already being developed for the identity card? Then why would it be so ridiculously much more expensive for the passport?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u64	I understand the question and I don't. I don't understand him because we're all trying to keep the costs as low as possible. By the way, citizens are free to communicate with the government in a normal way, or let me just say, because these are also normal ways of communicating with the government in an analogous way, so you don't need to. But if you want to communicate digitally with the government, you'll need one of both systems, the identity card or the driver's license, which it's already on but can't be used yet. If you add that up, you'll have 17 million people. There's doubles in there, but then you've got a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u65	Finally. This development is reflected in the identity card. If people decide not to use it, they have to pay for it anyway. The Minister may say that it is not a very high amount, but for some people it is. But also more fundamentally: the system of fees is set so that you pay for a service. So what's the deal? Can we ask people for money for a service that is not being provided, that they don't need or that they don't want to use?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u66	Yes, now that Mr Van Raak is asking this question, I am getting a little bit right after all. First, Mr Van Raak asks me why passports are not equipped either. Then I say: that leads to more costs. Mr Van Raak does not understand that. Next, he asks me why people who do not use these funds should also pay for them. That is because we want to make these maps in a clear way. We're not gonna make cards with chip and cards without a chip. And yes, someone who doesn't use it in the context of communication with the government pays for a chip that he doesn't use. Yes, that's true, but diversification in it doesn't contribute to further digitisation. If, for example, someone who bought such a cheap card without a chip, if we were to issue it, would later discover that he still wants to communicate digitally, he would have to buy a whole new card, because you can't put that chip on it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u67	I meant the question quite differently, namely whether you can ask for an allowance for something you don't deliver. First, it was about the cost. There were all kinds of questions about that. Now there is the fundamental question about the system of fees. You're allowed to charge fees for a service you didn't provide?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u68	The fact that that service was not provided is not the responsibility of the person providing the service. That's up to whoever's using it. If you buy a passport and you do not travel abroad, the passport is of no use in itself. Then you could have purchased an identity card. So that's what's in it and there's a price tag on it. There are also people who travel very often with a passport, so you could say that this reduces the cost at a time when you calculate it back. It's services, products that you need to identify. Part of it, i.e. identity cards and driving licences, can also be used immediately under the Digital Government Act to log in at higher levels. The person who bought that product for which fees are payable is free of course how he or she deals with it and to make use of the options and possibilities offered by those documents. I can't change that from this place. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, and I would like to refer to a number of themes. Questions have been asked about the Caribbean, about the registers, about security and privacy and about the consequences for citizens, Mr Van Raak's question just now. A number of questions have also been asked, a bit in line with the discussion that just arose about whether the amendment fits within the scope of this legal treatment, and I think that they really affect the Digital Government Act, which hopefully will be dealt with next week or the week after that. So I would actually like to propose that the questions relating to this should be included in the debate next week or next week. There is, of course, a relationship, but where it really is about logging in, identity and whether or not to allow private parties, that is the debate between Mr Middendorp and the Verhoeven I thought, whether Mr Van Raak really is dealing with the legal treatment of the next week. I would therefore like to propose that it be limited to the debate that is now before us, although I am on the brink of it, and I would like to welcome the amendment because a number of times it has been explicitly asked to do so. Moreover, I agree with Mr Verhoeven that this is somewhat artificial in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u69	It's on the agenda for Thursday morning, the Digital Government Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u70	Yes. Then we also do the Members of Parliament who are not here today and who would undoubtedly like to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u71	Then Mr Verhoeven can simply recycle his text from tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u72	It was not all Mr Verhoeven's questions, I can tell you. Mrs Özütok asked a question about the passports that Mr Van Raak also asked about. It asked for a more detailed explanation of the phase-out and the criteria for providing passports with this technology. I have indicated that I do not intend to place that e-functionality on passports at the moment. I have just indicated that there is a wide range by placing it on the identity card and the driving licence. One of the reasons why this e-functionality does not appear on the passport is that we are otherwise in line with what I have just said to Mr Van Raak, which also obliges people in the Caribbean countries to contribute to a system that is only used by the Dutch government and not in those countries. I'd like to avoid that. I do not rule out that this will ever happen again or that other systems will replace it, but this is an important argument. Mr Van Raak asked himself about the log-in, which is on the verge of the Digital Government Act, but let me answer the questions if I have any doubts about how things are going with people who don't have the right phone to log-in, how we deal with this group. We are also a bit of an answer to Mrs Özütok's question about inclusiveness, which is always in the process of helping as many people as possible digitally and at the same time giving those who cannot or do not want to do so the opportunity to use other methods and to go on roads. For those who can't go, the paperwork stays open. I said that once and again. At the moment, the NFC chip, which is very important, has been opened by Android and offers the possibility to log in. With Apple, an agreement has also been reached at the moment or at least an agreement has been made that they will do the same. Of course, this increases the range considerably, because most people have a mobile phone with either system. You can see that it removes the threshold, at least for those who want it. Mr Verhoeven wondered how much the fee of the ID card will rise by placing this chip. Costs will increase by a few euros. The exact amounts are not yet known. However, this will be similar to the increase in the e-driving licence, which has been issued since the summer of 2018, but cannot yet be used as such. Ms Özütok asked if the Dutch Data Protection Authority was involved and became involved in the privacy aspects, for example through the use of ethical hackers. This would guarantee the security and thus the privacy of the citizen. The answer is yes. The Personal Data Authority is involved and has indeed responded to the draft legislative proposal. We are also taking comprehensive security measures. So they also check whether what you make is sufficient. That's a little analogous to the discussion we've had recently about Citrix. So there are penetration tests on it, to see how you can get in. Actually, you could say that's what happens to hackers. And if a weak spot is discovered, it will be repaired. That's not something you do once; you have to do it permanently to keep systems safe. As a result, Mrs Özütok asked how we are going to ensure that the use of that chip is safe. That is a very fair question, because the core of the system is, of course, that the data stored on that chip is also well protected. We do that according to international standards. That chip is certified according to the most current standards and criteria. The different components are also certified. If necessary, this will happen again, especially because the state of the art is changing. So this is a point of permanent attention. If it turns out that weaknesses are being exposed somewhere, then of course they are being acted on. Mrs Özütok wondered how we would work with other countries to use an e-identification tool. The Digital Government Act, to which this applies, applies only in the European Netherlands. The Caribbean countries therefore do not need to amend their legislation. This NIK is used in the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom and abroad. This can also be requested by Dutch people who have a bsn and want to use the services of the Dutch government via the digital highway. There is also a question from Mr Van Raak in this area. He wondered what the influence was on the inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. If they have a bsn, they can apply for the eNIK. With regard to the basic register, the issuing authorities in those countries will also make use of the new basic register. The effects will therefore have an effect on the citizens of the whole Kingdom, but its application in the context of that Wdo, which is purely Dutch, will be more limited for one part of the Kingdom than for the other part. Questions have been asked by Mr Verhoeven about the basic register of travel documents. He wondered what would happen if, for whatever reason, the central storage was from the air. Are there backup systems? Yeah, the decor takes into account backups with redundancy. Of course, you don't want the whole system to shut down in one place, if one place fails or whatever. So that's what's provided for. Then you automatically switch to backup features. I can tell you more about it, but then it gets very detailed. Looking at Mr Verhoeven, I cannot imagine that he is interested in that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u73	That's almost entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u74	Mr Verhoeven was woken up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u75	I'm always happy listening to the Minister. Yeah, so there's a backup. I don't care about the technical details, unless there seems to be some kind of doubt in the Minister about how to explain this. I assume that is not the case. If there's just a good backup, I'll settle for that basically, because that's the level we can check on. If the Minister says "we're still thinking about the exact way it's done," I'd prefer him to say that. Then we can wait for, for example, a general measure of governance to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u76	No, the doubt was not in the answer to the question. I doubted whether I would pronounce what was in my text and whether that would contribute to understanding in the Chamber. Mr Middendorp wondered how flexible the basic register was. It is designed so that future developments and changes can be properly added, step by step. That is actually the way we work on the basis of the Elias Committee. It's quite an art to make systems so that you can grow them organically over time. That is the intention, because you do not want to end up in "vendor lock-in" situations where innovation is hampered, safety is reduced and so on. This means that, based on the principles we discussed earlier, you will continue to develop. In this sense we are really looking at the lessons learned from all the projects, but also the lessons from the Elias Committee. As a result, Mr Verhoeven asked which lessons of the Elias Committee I take to heart in the project. Well, actually, all of them. I have said it before, it was a good committee, which has written down many good elements that seem to be timeless to date. For example, the ten lessons formulated by the Elias Commission have been taken into account in this project, for example in terms of added value for the end user and society. It is very clear and clearly defined in the design. Elias goes on to say, and I very much agree with that, that you need to build in useful and measurable intermediate steps in development and that you should be able to say, as Mr Verhoeven said, that this is not going well, we are stopping; we are going back or we are going to start again. This means that I will, of course, keep the Chamber informed about the progress of this process. At his question whether external hire is also being used, I can say: yes, this is something you can do, of course under the direction of the government. We have a lot of specialists, but in certain areas you will also have to use external hire. Mr Verhoeven further wondered who would have access to the Central Register and whether there would be an exhaustive list of persons or bodies who would have access to it. Yes, that's the case. There's an almost exhaustive list. It's included in Article 4e of Passport Act. That is special, because this list is therefore laid down in the law itself, because it must be transparent who has access to the data of Dutch citizens. This legislative proposal does not include any new bodies in relation to the current situation. Only the benefits in kind for the ENIK, the electronic identity card, are new. If Mr Verhoeven needs me to recite Article 4e, he can do so. He doesn't need it. Mr Middendorp wondered what the status of the project is basic register and realization ENIK and what the planning is. The planning is aimed at 1 July 2020. We're on schedule. I must say, however, that the chain partners need at least four months of preparation from the moment the law is passed. You can feel the tension. Mr Middendorp and Mrs Özütok wondered whether two systems would immediately run side by side with the basic register. An important starting point for the new register is data minimising. That is to say, save data as much as possible once and then use it for the various legally established purposes. During the transitional period there will be a temporary double storage of data. Information will be stored in the new basic register. This will also be done in the Travel Documents Request and Archive Stations, the RAAS'. There is a risk that data in different systems may not be the same. But, yes, there is that risk also in the current situation where all kinds of different systems work. A gradual transition has therefore been chosen to avoid the large risks of large migration of all data in a kind of "everything on and off" scenario or bigbang scenario. That is also something Elias advises. That is also technically less significant. It's more secure. Of course, we are trying to keep the period of that double storage as short as possible. But safety first here, I'd say. Mr Verhoeven's question on biometrics. Are biometric data stored in a central database or not? And if so, who has access to the database? And how is that database secured? The bill we are now discussing does not regulate the central storage of biometrics. Similarly, the comprehensive basic register of travel documents provided for in this legislative proposal does not store this data. This is dealt with in a separate legislative proposal, which will reach the Chamber later. We can then discuss this in detail. Then I come to the amendment tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mrs Van Toorenburg. That is the amendment to item No. 15. Of course, I was surprised, too. However, that is not in itself a measure of the quality of an amendment. It was announced in the media this morning. The amendment is there. I also wondered at first whether this amendment was tabled in the right place at the right time. I must also point out that a ban on entry for Dutch extra-terrorist nationals, or a ban on return, is not possible because this is contrary to international law. Indeed, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights provide for the right to return home. This means that the government must always give its nationals access to the territory by means of an emergency travel document, a laissez pass. This is also included in the Passport Act, in Article 46 (2). Apart from the fact that there is a conflict with international law, an amendment aimed at banning the entry of terrorists should not be included in the Passport Act. The Passport Act regulates the issue and refusal of travel documents and does not deal with the taking of nationality, actual entry and exit and consular matters. Legislation in these areas is therefore the responsibility of my counterparts in the fields of justice and security and foreign affairs. So it's not something that falls under my responsibility either. Furthermore, the applicants want a ban on entry, but the amendment has been formulated as an additional ground for refusal to issue a travel document. However, national security and suspected terrorism are already included in the Passport Act as grounds for refusal to issue a travel document. That is contained in Article 23 and beyond. So, frankly, I do not understand what the aim of this amendment is on top of that. Even if a terrorist is taken or refused the passport, there is no ground to make entry impossible. As I have just said, international law must not deprive anyone of the right to enter the territory of which he or she is a national. In short, I think that the amendment is at least out of order in this debate. Next Wednesday is the general consultation on the fight against terrorism. Perhaps it is good to make this political point there. I must therefore also reject this amendment on behalf of my colleagues in the Foreign Affairs and Justice and Security Committee. Mr President, with the aforementioned disclaimer or comment on all the questions relating to the Digital Government Act, I hope that I have answered all the questions of the Members. If that is not the case, then I am happy to hear it and I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u77	It doesn't belong here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u78	You're misunderstood. You need to talk in the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u79	It does not belong here, I heard the Minister say, but Article 23, which the Minister himself mentioned, regulates that people do not get a passport when there is a suspicion that a terrorist act will be committed. This amendment is in line with Article 23 and regulates, among other things, what happens if there is a suspicion that a terrorist act has already been committed. So we have written something in Article 23 preventively and this amendment actually does so in the event that there is a suspicion that it has already been done. Then why shouldn't that belong here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u80	This law refers to the issue of passports, for which there are indeed grounds for refusal. The amendment aims to take away people who return their passports and that is another purpose. That goes beyond Article 23. That is why I am saying that this law is not the appropriate place to address it, apart from the fact, as a number of Members have said, that in preparing this debate and in the context of this amendment, which I myself submitted to the Chamber, the word 'terrorism' does not occur and that this is a completely different method of clicking on it. I believe that Mr Verhoeven has made a number of comments on procedural reasons. They are also of a legal nature on the side of the Chamber, I would say, so it does not suit me to have a judgment on this place. On the grounds I have just mentioned, I must advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u81	I do not share the interpretation of that entry, because this amendment adds an additional ground for refusal. It is therefore a ground for refusal. That is basically what Article 23 says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u82	That is too short, because, as I argued, this amendment is contrary to international law and I cannot say that of the current Passport Act. The question is how Mr Middendorp assesses and weighs that. I consider it rather important that a country which has a high regard for the international legal order should actually try to amend that law tonight with a quick one, if I may put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u83	It's not about not returning. The interpretation is that there is a violation of international law, but that is just the question. It is a question of making the same refusal possible when issuing a travel document. That does not mean anything about all the other issues that have just been raised, about the re-entry. The point is that it is in line with Article 23 and creates a ground for refusal for people who have committed a terrorist attack. The question then is whether the Minister shares the goal in itself. That is an important question. We are doing this to raise an additional threshold, to ensure that those people who have committed terrorist attacks do not return to the Netherlands and thus to make the Netherlands safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u84	Either the amendment is more of the same as Article 23, and then it is a superfluous amendment, or it aims to do something else, and then it is in breach of international law. So one of the two. I am not going to answer Mr Middendorp's last question. Then you really should be at another counter. That is not my responsibility, because it is the Minister of Justice and Security who is dealing with this, so I must remain guilty of this on state-law grounds. With regard to the first point, it is up to Mr Middendorp to clarify the purpose of the legislative amendment or amendment. Is it a more robust text in the explanatory statement which has hardly any effect on the law or is it actually a legislative amendment? Then it is also contrary to international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u85	So I don't agree with that last one. I have already summarised a number of times the difference between Article 23 and what we add. Above all, I do not agree with the interpretation that we are trying to achieve something which is contrary to international law. That is just the question, because what we are aiming for is quite different from what the Minister keeps saying in his summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u86	Then we disagree. Then I wish the Chamber much wisdom in assessing this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u87	That is always appreciated, but we already have the wisdom, so I do not know if we really need it anymore. I note that this is the end of the first term. Is there a need for a second term? No, no, no, no. I would like to give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, who is immediately the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u88	That can be very short. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I had said that I was considering tabling a motion to propose to the Chamber not to vote on this amendment from the VVD and the CDA before there is an opinion from the Council of State. But now that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is also from the CDA house, has clearly discouraged this amendment and put forward a number of substantive arguments in that regard, I shall refrain from asking for an opinion from the Council of State, because I think the Minister's opinion is so clear. I agree with his argument that not travelling out is something quite different than not being able to return. If you don't want someone to return, you're acting in violation of international treaties. If Mr Middendorp says that this is not about not returning, it is symbolic or, as the Minister says, unnecessary. In both cases, therefore, this amendment actually has a problem, to the left or to the right. I therefore wish the CDA from this place on Tuesday very much success in considering whether it is going to vote in favour of this amendment. They weren't there themselves and their own minister didn't advise it. In any case, I wish the CDA every success from this place. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u89	I did not just repeat it, but Mr Verhoeven simply repeated the interpretation about not returning and so on, which he gave to it in the first term. The amendment contains exactly what we want, which is to add an additional ground for refusal for people suspected of a terrorist act. Article 23, now part of the Passport Act, states that the passport is taken from people who are expected to commit such acts. I believe that Mr Verhoeven's interpretation of this is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u90	I've heard this argument four or five times. I can tell you what Mr Verhoeven is going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u91	No, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u92	Then he's gonna wish me luck, Mr. Chairman. He just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u93	I'll just be brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u94	That's what I predict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u95	Extremely short. That's the prophecy I can make. Mr Middendorp pretends to add an extra ground to Rule 23. It's a fundamental difference if you don't let someone leave or if you don't let someone return. Returning is clearly expressed in international treaties. This is what Mr Middendorp is saying all the time with his tough language, which is contrary to an international treaty. You cannot just refuse someone to return to their own land, to the land where their nationality belongs. The fact that you don't want to do that anymore is contrary to international treaties. The Passport Act has a number of grounds that are not contrary to international conventions. That's the difference. When you say "yes, but there's going to be an emergency document, so it's all okay," you actually say "it's a symbolic trick to score in the media," by emptying what we did this morning with some kind of siser, as happens with Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u96	So far. Thank you. Mr. Middendorp still? Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u97	Yes, of course. I assume that Mr Verhoeven agrees with me that we do want to prevent them from returning. What this amendment is about is that they don't get a passport, and that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u99	They return with an emergency document or they do not return in violation of international conventions. That's the choice you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u100	Thank you. So far. In principle, we will vote on the law on Tuesday, but we could all decide to postpone it for a week. Then we will vote on this together with the Digital Government Act. Is there any enthusiasm for that? Shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u101	Then the CDA also has a little extra thought-out time to make that difficult assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u102	Of course, I did it to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u103	They have to resist their own CDA minister in the group, who has rejected the amendment tabled by Mrs Van Toorenburg, who is not present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u104	Do you always want the last word? Do I understand now? So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-12.u105	Then we will vote not next Tuesday but next week, along with the bill on the digital government. I thank the Minister for his presence and wish him a safe journey back. I'm closing today's meeting.
