ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mrs I.Y. Tan. I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Ing Yoe Tan, who died on April 10th, a week before her 72nd birthday. She was a member of the First Chamber of the PvdA from 8 June 1999 to 7 June 2011. Ing Yoe Tan was born on 18 April 1948 in The Hague. The Tan family soon moved to Indonesia, where her parents were born. In Surabaya she attended primary and secondary education until her return to the Netherlands when she was 14. She graduated in 1967 from the Praedinius Gymnasium in Groningen. Ing Yoe Tan graduated from the University of Amsterdam in 1975. After graduating, she was a stand-by stewardess at the KLM. In 1978, she joined the municipality of Amsterdam as assistant to Alderman Irene Vorrink. When Vorrink resigned in 1979, Ing Yoe Tan became Deputy Head and later Head of Management and Policy Research of the Municipality of Amsterdam. After four years she went to work as Deputy Head of Public Personnel and Second Secretary of the Labour Affairs College of the Association of Dutch Municipalities. In 1986, Ing Yoe Tan moved to Berenschot, where she worked as a senior advisor non-profit. She would continue to work at Berenschot for 18 years. In 1978, she became a member of the Labour Party. In the party she was, among other things, secretary of the Amsterdam-Buitenveldert department, board member of the training institute, chairman of the multi-ethnic women's network and member of the Advisory Group on Women in the PvdA. Shortly after her swearing in as a senator in 1999, she called herself "Alice in Wonderland" in a column on the website of the Upper House. She wrote: "Here is a stately, venerable atmosphere in a setting of museum beauty with amiable, traditional manners." Soon Ing Yoe Tan acquired the Chamberwork, especially in the fields of domestic administration, privacy, culture and Antillean affairs. The most striking thing was her performance in the last few years of her First Parliamentary Membership, when she was spokesperson on behalf of her group on the electronic patient file. Together with the unlikely partners VVD and SP, Tan led the resistance against the proposal of Minister Schippers. She explained the PvdA's opposition as follows: "The salvation of the electronic patient file and the risks to privacy and security problems do not outweigh each other." The bill was rejected unanimously on 5 April 2011. In addition to her social and political career, Ing Yoe Tan was particularly active in many administrative positions, particularly in the fields of education, culture and care. For example, she was a board member of the Dutch National Opera & Ballet Fund and chairman of multicultural theatre Cosmic. She was also a member of the Supervisory Boards of Alkmaar Medical Center and ROC Leiden, and chairman of the Supervisory Board of Sophia Rehabilitation in The Hague. Ing Yoe Tan was known as an involved, positively critical, modest woman with an analytical glance, balanced judgment and acting with the conviction that everyone matters and belongs to it. May our respect for her person and her merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-4.u2	Thank you.
