ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u1	Then I give the floor to Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I tabled the motion on the basis of written questions, the debate and the Minister's reply. Considering the reaction of the VNG, the IPO and spokesmen of a number of other groups, I have modified and modified the motion, which brings the amended motion into line with the system of the Environment Act. The term "industrial sites of regional importance" has been replaced by "industrial sites of provincial importance." In addition, the operative part of the Supplementary Noise Act was replaced by the operative part of "IenW Collecting Act'. That's better under state law and better under law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u3	The motion-Rietkerk c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, under current law, provinces are competent, under the Noise Act, to designate industrial sites of regional importance in the provincial regulation;]] [[Whereas this competence of Provincial States does not return under the Environmental Law;]] [[Whereas under the Environmental Act (Article 2.11a), although it is possible for the Provincial Council to request that noise production ceilings be set around industrial sites, this is not the same and is not in line with the starting point for joining the existing administrative division of labour;]] [[Whereas existing practice has shown that it is efficient and effective for the provinces to have independent competence because of the importance of the municipality;]] [[Whereas the Environment Act does not allow the local authorities to take more effective and effective action in the decision-making of industrial sites of provincial interest (as designated in the environmental regulation);]] [[Whereas the scheme increases the burden on the municipalities;]] [[Whereas in the future it will continue to be more efficient and effective to establish and manage noise production ceilings for industrial sites of provincial importance, especially those areas where the municipal boundaries are exceeded;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the IenW 2019 Collecting Act that provinces remain competent to designate industrial sites of provincial importance in their environmental regulation, including the power to amend and set and comply with noise production ceilings for those areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Rietkerk, Mr Essers, Mr Dessing, Mr Kluit, Mr Van Gurp, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Verkerk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35054-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Last week, of course, we debated this issue extensively. For the VVD Group, the Minister's opinion is particularly important. It indicated that the VNG and the IPO, the two umbrella organisations, are still in discussion on this issue. We ourselves have also received information from the domes. They expect to come to a conclusion within two to three weeks. If the domes are still in conversation, the VVD-group thinks it is very important to leave it to the fellow governments for a while. I don't think it's up to the First Chamber to force a verdict there right now. Hence an order proposal on the part of the VVD Group, president. We propose that this motion be postponed for another month. We will then keep it limited, because it is said that in two to three weeks we will be able to come to an conclusion. In a month's time, we can see whether that has been achieved and then, if necessary, put the proposal to the vote. I therefore urge the CDA Group, Mr Rietkerk, to hold the motion for a resolution for another month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. Mr Arbouw therefore proposes that the vote on the motion be postponed by one month, unless the CDA Group holds the motion for a month. I propose that we finish the third term with any other speakers and then deal with the order of business on the votes. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the third term? That's the case. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for a regulation seems to me to be a sensible one, but there are also substantive considerations for it, because we have not discussed it in detail. We did mention this last week. I have also pointed out that there can be a super-municipal interest. So you're gonna have to decide who's gonna make the decision. I have said: you can also agree procedures in which, for example, a majority of municipalities are controlled if one municipality is obstructed. But now the Environment Act is being turned upside down, because the Environment Act was just meant to decentralize. This is getting a little back to square one. So I acknowledge that there may be a problem, but not in this way. In the motion, that only becomes more unclear. It does not make it clear whether the province is going to mediate, so it comes out, or whether the province has a separate power to set all the noise production ceilings itself. In the latter case, it is not a question of overruling municipalities, but of filling in themselves. Then it is also the question: is that only for sound, or is that instantly going to happen for nature, smell and what not? We'll get a piece of the law. I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that this is consistent with the line of the law itself. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask Mr Rietkerk what area we are talking about. The motion states that these are areas with a provincial interest, 'especially those in which municipal boundaries are exceeded'. It is therefore clear that these areas are also areas of provincial importance in which the municipal boundaries are not exceeded. In any area only in Leeuwarden, or only in Amsterdam, or only in Rotterdam, the province can say "it is within that municipality, but I overrule it," or even "I am competent." In the latter case, you don't overrule, but you're ahead of time. It seems to me that we need to be more legally precise about what we mean by this. The key question is, of course, whether the province can say: we set that noise ceiling higher, because we consider that to be a provincial economic interest? As a result, the municipality will be burdened with noise and may have problems with its overall environmental plan with the neighbours of that industrial area, the residential areas next to it. It is precisely because of these considerations that we have said: let the municipalities do it. Solutions must be found if there are differences between municipalities and there must be remedies, but we believe that this is a step too early at the moment. In addition, the argument is that the provinces and the municipalities themselves say they will be out within four weeks. But even then, I would advise you to come up with a somewhat unambiguous explanationable motion. That might help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr Crone. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the third term? Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think the motion is entirely clear and I also wonder whether it is necessary. If I understand correctly, there are two aspects. Mr Crone was just talking about it. It may be that an industrial site is situated at the borders of different municipalities and that these municipalities have different views. Is the purpose of this motion, then, that the province should be given more control in that situation? If that is the purpose, is my question to the author of the motion, but also to the Minister: is it not provided for in the Environment Act? That's one. Secondly, if the aim is to intervene in situations in which the municipality is compatible with its standards, then I can imagine something. That is not the case, but if that is the case, then one could say that a super-municipal interest, a provincial interest, an overriding interest, can therefore be a reason for the province to intervene. But then again my question is: do we need that motion, or is the Environment Act already sufficiently regulated that, in such an overriding interest, the province has its own power to intervene? Those were my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. Then I would like to give Mr Rietkerk the opportunity to react from behind the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. I have three questions: first, those of Mr Nicolaï. The starting point of the Environment Act and the Introduction Act is a policy-neutral translation. In our view, this is not the issue here, because it is currently a provincial competence and it is changing. Perhaps the Minister will be able to explain that. Then there is Mr Crone's question as to which areas we are talking about. I'm not going to repeat last week's debate. In any case, as far as cross-border areas are concerned, noise can also have cross-border effects. People live there, too. For those residents, in the current situation, the province has that competence. The question of how this is worked out: it is a motion. At the request of a number of fellow spokesmen in the operative part, I also replaced the term 'Applying Act Sound' with 'IenW Collecting Act'. I ask the Minister how it works when the IenW Collecting Act comes here over a certain period of time. Then we can also see if the motion has been interpreted correctly. Then again it is about the quality of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. The Minister is going to answer later, but I would like to begin by raising Mr Arbouw's procedural proposal to postpone the vote on this motion by one month, four weeks. Let me see if there is broad support for this order proposal. Mrs. Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. I can also imagine hearing the minister first. Then we'll have the content and we'll know how to weigh the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u13	That's excellent. That in itself is also an order proposal. If there is sufficient support for that, then let us prevail. I see that everyone supports that proposal. I shall now give the floor to the Minister in the third term. Mr Arbouw's point of order will then be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. A number of technical questions have been asked and clarification has been requested, but actually one of the key questions is: does this fit or not within the system of the Environment Act? In many places, the Environment Act is based on: decentralised, unless. There may be reasons to deviate from that principle and that is also part of the Environment Act. We also discussed this last week, even in relation to a number of other points in the legislative proposal. There was also an exchange in the debate last week that IPO and VNG are still talking to each other at the moment. I think that both the motion and the questions that are asked about it highlight exactly both sides of the puzzle that needs to be laid. That is precisely why IPO and VNG have jointly indicated that they would like to come to that definition. That is why my request was last week to hold the motion, so that both domes have the time to reach a verdict. That would still be my preference. Another question is whether or not there are instruments. Mr Nicolaï asked whether a cross-border situation had not already been foreseen. Under the Environmental Law, the province may intervene by means of instructions or instructions in the situation that municipalities together do not come to an effective or effective choice. I've already talked about consistency. Mr Crone asked whether a provincial interest is not always a cross-border interest. No, it's not. There are now many areas of regional importance within one municipality. It is a matter of interest and not of location. An important site can be located in one municipality. There may be a provincial interest, even if a site is located within one municipality. That's to make it legal. For the sake of clarity, also in view of the feelings in the Chamber. There is now a motion which has been largely signed. The domes are also working at the same time. In terms of technology, I am actually asked, also in the motion, in the Collecting Act IenW, the Collecting Act 2020, not the Act that the Chamber already has, but the Collecting Act 2020, to come up with a further elaboration. A motion that has been signed so widely is in any case a reason for me to take that into account in the way in which we are going to get back to that in the collectible law. However, that will take a few weeks. In the meantime, I will certainly have the opportunity to take note of the views of the domes. So my suggestion remains to hold the motion, but I am sure that the motion is well signed when preparing the IenW Collecting Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u15	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in response to the Government's reaction? Mr. Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. About the conversation the domes have been having for months. That is what the written questions from at least the CDA Group and other political groups are aiming at. I have another supplementary question because it is said that both domes would agree with the postponement of the vote now. At least my information is that it isn't. It seems to me appropriate to share that, because that means that we will propose that the motion be put to the vote. It is also an answer to the question from the VVD group to the CDA group, irrespective of the procedural proposal, because that is what the President is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u17	Anyone else want to speak? Mr Nicolaï and Mr Crone in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u18	I thank the Minister for the answer, but I had asked two questions while one was answered. The other question is in line with the Minister's remark that it may also be an area within one municipality. If I understand correctly, there could be intervention because one, which transcends one municipality, might be provincial interest. But isn't that already provided for in the Environment Act? Do we need this motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u19	Mr Crone then wishes to interrupt the government in the third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask Mr Rietkerk, through you, whether his voting behaviour is determined by the IPO or the VNG. We must take a stand-alone decision here on what we think is desirable. It is clear that they, also hearing the Minister, think they need another four weeks. After that, we can always use hard and soft means to determine our own position. That is an additional argument for the postponement. On the substance, I would like to ask the Minister, in addition to Mr Nicolaï's question: can a province in the new system be overruled, as Mr Nicolaï says? But how does that work in the system of the new Environment Act? Self-contained, unless, means that you do not have to keep the municipalities constantly tied in to all kinds of unopportunities or new wishes, because then the gate of the dam is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u21	I ask the Minister to prosecute her third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u22	Mr. Chairman. First, the answer to Mr Nicolai's question as to whether it is necessarily necessary. As I have already indicated, it can be done with instructional rules or instructional customization. Customisation is possible in any case, also on the basis of the instruments available. I believe that the motion expresses the wish to strike a balance between the provincial and municipal interests. By the way, my information is not that the domes would disagree about using space, but you never know who has the latest information. That is also the answer to Mr Crone's question as to whether there are any instruments that would allow a province to overrule a municipality. Yes, there are, but they are limited and they also need to be very well substantiated. In normal inter-administrative supervision, there is precisely that ladder to be able to do so, if really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Minister. I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. I see that Mr Crone has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. But it is not just a matter of disagreement between municipalities, it is a question of the province becoming the competent authority. So they decide what happens. Of course, they will consult with the municipalities in advance, but there is a crucial difference as to whether the competent authority lies with municipalities, whether there is a professional possibility or an option in the event of an argument, or whether the competent authority lies where it was, as Mr Rietkerk rightly says, with the provinces. And that still runs counter to the Environment Act. Because then it can happen for nature and everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u25	No, it's not at odds with the Environment Act, because the Environment Act says "decentral," unless. There may be reasons to deviate from that. But it is indeed a change that Mr Rietkerk asks about how things are now arranged. You're right about that. You say how it is now regulated in the Environment Act, and Mr Rietkerk refers to the situation before the Environment Act, for all precision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u26	I see Mr Rietkerk nodding. I would like to look around to see if one of the Members wishes to speak in the third term. If not, I will close the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u27	I come to Mr Arbouw's proposal, in which I say, for the record, that the motion under H is no longer part of the debate, and we are now discussing the motion with letter I. I will look around to see if there is sufficient support in the Chamber for Mr Arbouw's order proposal to postpone the vote on this motion by one month, four weeks. I see a number of Members nodding no. We shall then vote on this order of business proposed by Mr Arbouw. Will Members who are in favour of Mr Arbouw's procedural proposal stand up? I note that the members of the groups of D66, the PvdD, the PvdA and the VVD voted in favour of this order proposal and the members of the groups of the PVV, the CDA, GroenLinks, the SP, the Christian Union, the SGP, FvD, 50PLUS and the Otten Group voted against it, so that it was rejected. For the record, the OSF Group is absent. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u28	Mr. Chairman. Then may I ask you to hold the votes in two weeks' time? After all, it is clear that there is a great deal of legal uncertainty in the proposal. It hasn't been discussed. Then we can weigh that in the group. I think it's customary here that we should be able to do that. We did not get the motion until late last night and we would like to come back to that. If people don't understand this, we'd rather not repeat last week's moves. There's nothing on fire if we do this in two weeks. Of course, the bill can now be voted on, the motion can be voted on in two weeks' time. I think it is customary to give political groups the opportunity for further consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-eerstekamer-5.u29	Mr Crone proposed that the vote on this motion be postponed by two weeks. I propose that we vote on this order proposal. Would Members who are in favour of this order of business wish to stand up? I note that the members of the groups of D66, the PvdD, the PvdA and the VVD voted in favour of this order proposal and the members of the groups of the PVV, the CDA, GroenLinks, the SP, the Christian Union, the SGP, FvD, 50PLUS and the Otten Group voted against it, so that it was rejected. The fraction of OSF is not present.
