ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue the debate on the proposed relocation of the Marine Station in Doorn. We have arrived at the answers of the Secretary of State. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Before I start the debate with the Chamber, I would like to address all the Zeeuws who are present in the Chamber but also in another place here. You have come with a number of buses. Early this morning, I saw all the messages coming by. I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to address you as well. I can imagine, after the coverage and also your expectation that the marine barracks in Vlissingen would come to Zeeland, that you are disappointed, angry, I can come up with all sorts of classifications that have occurred in your head and that you are also angry with me. I take that very much to heart. I would also like to apologize to the drivers. That was never my intention. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to address myself to the Chamber. I'd like to state that I've wrestled with this file. After I arrived, a little later the discussions, the signals from the Marine Corps began to reach me about the outflow. About the concerns they had about moving to Vlissingen, about what it would mean to them for the balance between work and private. That's why I had doubts. Looking back on that now, I should have taken Zeeland and your Chamber into those doubts. Because it was such a big decision from 2012 and I realized very well that this was a very big decision, I thought: I can't just do that. I cannot cast my doubts lightly without having thought carefully about what it means. Whether Vlissingen was a right decision. Whether there were alternatives. I kept that to myself, and that's my fault. I should have shared that doubt with Zeeland and your room. But I wanted to focus on a careful decision in terms of content, because I thought it was so important. If you want to reconsider a 2012 decision that has been taken in a majority in this Chamber, then you have to do your homework properly. I did that homework. Except I didn't involve Zeeland and I didn't involve your Chamber. I should have. I sincerely apologize again for that. That was my fault. I have focused too much on the content to see what the 2012 decision would mean now, in the current situation with a changing labour market, with concerns about the outflow of the Marine Corps and thus also about the future resilience of the Corps. The security situation had also changed, and the requirements for the barracks also changed. I focused on that content and looked at it: what does that mean? When I look at the situation in Vlissingen, do these demands still apply, as is so beautifully called with the Dutch term fit for purpose, to the barracks themselves but also to the human aspect? I kept that with me because I was thinking: I can't just go out with my doubts. Because if I go out with my doubt without doing my homework, then I also evoke emotion, doubt and unrest. I realize now that by the process as I chose it I have actually achieved the opposite. So that wasn't my intention. My intention was just to do the homework in a good way. Just to tell you if it was a good decision. To back that up, because I got those questions from the corps: why are we going to Vlissingen, what does that mean, wasn't that the way they looked at it? I realize that. I have to learn from that and learn from it, also for the future, that it has to be done in a different way. I should have given that openness and transparency in the process at the first moment of doubt I had. That moment of doubt came in the spring of 2018 when the signals about the Marine Corps were shared with your Chamber. But then you're not just gonna think, "I'm gonna make another decision now." I did think: can we stay in Doorn at all, is that still an option at all? I also talked about this with the Utrecht Hillback to see if that was an option. We were also talking to Rotterdam about the establishment of the special units. Then Rotterdam also came up with the request if I didn't want to look a bit wider with Rotterdam when it came to the establishment of the Marine Corps. Such conversations have taken place. But at some point I thought, "This is not the way to do this." If I want a review and if I want to come to another decision, then I have to look carefully at it. At that time, in May 2019, I commissioned an alternative study. Looking back on this process there have actually been several moments when I could have expressed my doubts, and on the assignment in May I should have at least participated Zeeland in the fact that an order had been given for an alternative investigation. This has been a growing process in which I initially had doubts. I checked whether or not we could stay in Doorn. Then there was also talk of signals coming from Rotterdam: is that an option at all? If you get these signals, and you're going to explore them, then at some point you come to the point where you think: now I have to do it in a good way and put it in order. That's what finally happened with the alternative investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u3	I see that you will stop your speech, Secretary of State, but before we proceed to any interruptions, I would like to give you the opportunity to explain how you came to this decision. That's a question that bothers everyone. The people in the public gallery want to know that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yeah, I'll go through with the chairman. At that time I looked at the trade-off that took place in 2012. Mr Van Helvert said that the 2012 decision was based on two things: the fact that Defence was not represented in Zeeland, and its location by the sea. I said the following, on the basis of my responsibility for the staff, and also for the future resilience and employability of the Marine Corps. The labour market has changed, and the security situation has also changed fundamentally since 2012. Other things are asked of the Defense Department. This also affects practice locations and the way they are trained. On that basis, I said that we need to come up with a clear framework for consideration. We need to go see if Vlissingen is still up to it. I wanted to see if Vlissingen meets the considerations I wanted to make at the time. On that basis, I wanted to see if Vlissingen is a good location. And that's how we peeled it off. I have not yet made the decision not to choose Vlissingen. That decision for Vlissingen from 2012 was just a fact for me that stood still. It was not until the end of last year, at the beginning of this year, that the final decision was taken, as you have seen in the documents. For me, and until then, the decision to go to Vlissingen still stood, because I do not think you can simply withdraw a decision. You're gonna have to make another decision about that. That didn't happen until later. But I told you, I should have arranged this process differently, to Zeeland and to your Chamber. So I should have shared that doubt with your room and Zeeland. And I should have arranged that process differently in the investigation of any other locations. I should have done that before. Questions have been asked about the further process, and what that means to myself. The Chamber has asked: how do you see that? I realize very well that the Zeeuws have no confidence in the cabinet, and in me. I am very concerned about that, because I do not think that I have handled this very well either. That's what I just said. I am well aware that I have to invest in that trust and in restoring that trust, precisely because Defence has a lot of administrative relationships and because Defence is working with directors in many places in the Netherlands. We will see with them in which way Defense can carry out its activities there in a good way. So I also realize I have something to fix. You do that not only with words, but of course also by simply showing it with your actions. I'm going to work for that, I want to work for that, and I'm going to continue to work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u5	I'm looking at the MPs. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u6	It grabs me that someone says so honestly that she is sorry, but on the other hand I think: the Secretary of State now tells me that she understands that the Zeeuws no longer have faith in her. What does it think it can rely on that as a Chamber, which has not been properly informed, we can still have that confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u7	I have given you my thoughts. My thoughts were on my struggle and my doubts about whether the move to Vlissingen was a good choice. I didn't figure that out myself. I had doubts about that. I've explored things in several ways, but at some point I've gotten to the point. If you are seriously considering this, you should also be very clear as to why you want to return to a decision taken here by a majority in 2012. I did, but I kept it too much to myself. That's what I reported. It is ultimately up to you as a Chamber to judge this, even when it comes to trusting me in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u8	But even in the last letter we got, that uncertainty was still there. That wasn't necessary, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u9	The cabinet has taken two decisions, two planned decisions, and they are also linked. As the Deputy Prime Minister Hugo de Jonge pointed out: the moment you decide not to go to Vlissingen, a decision should also be made on compensation for Zeeland. That's why it's also mentioned in the letter. These are now planned decisions, but these two things will be final decisions on the same day, by the Cabinet. That connection, that it at the same time in one day... Mr Van der Staaij also mentioned this: if you do this, then it is important that compensation should also be paid. That is why these two proposed decisions have been chosen, because we see that they are consistent. If you decide to build a marine barracks in Vlissingen, you make all kinds of agreements about it, but then you say "I don't," then you also have the responsibility to compensate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u10	I agree with the Secretary of State that she admits so cavalierly that she has dealt with this administratively unhelpful, even so unhelpful that there are now four buses with Zeeuwen in the public gallery. And that is right, because I understand their frustration and anger very well. So again, I think it is good that the Secretary of State is so cavalier about this, but I would still like you to explain it a little more. You keep telling me I've kept it to myself. That's obvious. You even kept it to yourself that maybe no one knew about it. That wasn't good. That's what you're saying. My question to you is as follows. In the first term, I asked whether you did not trust the Zeeland leaders sufficiently. Because I just can't imagine that if you're dealing with such a dilemma and you want to reconsider such a big decision, for which contracts have been signed and so on, you don't consider that you should of course talk to the drivers involved. I just can't imagine how that went. I'd appreciate it if you could point that out again for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u11	Let me make this very clear immediately: that had nothing to do with the confidence in the Zeeland drivers. This had to do with my assumption and with my process when it comes to this review, and with my doubts. Before I started this conversation with Zeeland, I wanted to have fully examined whether the decision taken in 2012 was the right decision. That was the reason for me to do it this way. Looking back on it now, I should have done it differently. I should have put that doubt on the table sooner. If you look back, you could have done it at different times. But that has nothing to do with the Zeeland drivers, with Zeeland or anyone else. I've chosen to do an investigation first and to look at all the elements. I wanted to prevent me from coming out with a decision or doubt towards Zeeland and that Zeeland would say: "But how so? What elements did you consider?" For me, that was an important consideration. Looking back on it now, I shouldn't have done it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u12	It is, of course, normal that if you have a administrative dilemma, if you want to reconsider something or if you want to question anything at all, you will then have a conversation with involved directors and parties. You say you trusted the Zeeland drivers, but you didn't talk to them. I find that quite unimaginable, I must say. I understand you have a dilemma inside your own head and think about it, but you do share that, don't you? Moreover, that doubt was expressed time and again in the Chamber. So even if you found it complicated, you could have just continued towards the Zeeland drivers on the grounds that there was already some doubt in the Chamber about this decision. So it is not quite clear to me exactly how this went internally with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u13	Because I felt bound by the decision of 2012. I also felt responsible for the implementation of that decision. So for me, that decision was just standing. I didn't want to deviate from that until I came to another decision. That's why I chose it that way. Looking back on that now, I should have done it differently. But I put it for myself as follows: before I cast my doubts out and thereby cause unrest, both in Zeeland and in the Marine Corps, I first want clarity about my assumptions, also as to whether it is the right choice to go to Vlissingen and what this means for the corps and operational. So I wanted to be certain about that decision first. That is why I did it in this way: to avoid that uncertainty and unrest. My observation now is that I have achieved a completely different effect, namely anger, disappointment, in short: all the qualifications that you yourself have given them. That was never my intention. My intention was to justify this doubt with facts before I came out with it. Actually, that was my trial. I wanted to underpin my doubt with facts to see if Vlissingen was still the right decision. That didn't work out. I can only conclude that it has turned out differently. So I understand your surprise, but this is how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u14	Finally, Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u15	Whatever's hard for me... You have now stated again and again, and I appreciate that you think that you should have taken a different approach. Let's put it bluntly. That's how we learn from everything. That's important, too. But my point is now mostly in learning. Of course, we all assume that cabinet members and decentralised directors are job-grown. So at the moment when you sense doubt if you are wondering if you are on the right track as a driver, you should of course be able to talk to each other about that. Zeeland probably hadn't even immediately deduced that it would never go through or that there would be no compensation or anything. Of course you can just have the conversation with each other. It is particularly regrettable and regrettable that this has not happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u16	Yes, you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u17	Are you on other routes and in other discussions that are complicated? Indeed, there are a number of issues at issue at the moment in the Defense Department, which are clearly discussed with parties, directors and others? For you have now noticed that keeping things too close to yourself does not necessarily have the desired effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u18	Absolutely. I also just gave the lessons I'm taking out for myself for other files. I indicated to you: we have a lot of files running all over the Netherlands, not just within the Defense Department where I sit at the table with drivers in many ways. I am trying, and will continue to do so, to be in there in an open and transparent way. That didn't happen on this file. I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u19	It's a good thing the Secretary of State looks back on what went wrong fairly. At the same time, I do wonder how this could be done. Why aren't the doubts just shared with Zeeland? My question is also what consequences this has had for the outcome. Does this also mean that there has in fact been no normal administrative consultation with Zeeland to see if there was any possibility of making that barracks suitable in any other way, and whether there is anything financial left to do? Maybe Zeeland had also looked at the same report about the marines and said: oh, but wait a minute, I see that it is not just about Vlissingen but also about the dissatisfaction with the work and the way they are seen and heard. Then you'll have a whole different conversation. Isn't the decision that the Secretary of State finally submitted a decision that wasn't immature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u20	No. But I understand Mr Van der Staaij's question. I indicated to you that my assessment was: before I put the doubt on the table and thereby cause unrest in the corps, but also in the direction of Zeeland, I would first like to make it clear whether the considerations I would make at the moment stand. That was the doubt. The doubt arose about the outflow of the Marine Corps. You're absolutely right that that's not necessarily just Vlissingen. That is also why I did not put that doubt on the table earlier. Because we've just had research done into what it's all about. I've looked at what's behind it, apart from the work satisfaction and that kind of thing, which you're absolutely right about. We saw it was in the work-private balance. It had to do with the fact that the Marines of the Marine Corps are away a lot throughout the year and do not want to be indoors in the Netherlands, as it is called, so they don't want to be away from home, but want to be with the family during the week. That was the reason for me to say: if I were now in front of the decision to move, I was in favour of that too, I felt, from my responsibility for the future stability of the corps, I could not influence many things, but I could influence whether or not we should go through with this decision and in what way. I have drawn up that balancing framework. In doing so, I have also looked at the current situation, the wishes and, in fact, the demands. Think of the training locations and the training facilities. Then what are the demands I make? I've always set it off towards Vlissingen. With that decision I wanted to go to Zeeland to say: Zeeland can... If you look at this balancing framework, you will also see what finally came out at the end of the process. It was not one element that played a role in the balancing. It was the total of a fit for purpose barracks, the future resilience and employability of the corps and the financial consequences associated with it. Yes, I can very well imagine Mr Van der Staaij's question. I should have put it on the table earlier, so that Zeeland could at least have said something about it, asked questions about it and could have talked to me about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u21	I note, indeed, that at least the argument given by the Secretary of State has not been an in-depth discussion with Zeeland and the Secretary of State now says that this is her consideration, and that the normal administrative process has not been followed. That has had serious consequences. I have a supplementary question to ask. It is precisely because it was also about the region, employment in the region, that I wonder whether the Secretary of State held it for himself in the cabinet. Isn't this a broader cabinet matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u22	That's it. That is why there are two proposed decisions. On the one hand, there is the planned decision not to go to Vlissingen. On the other hand, there is the planned decision to make compensation. It is not only from the Defence Department, it can, of course, make a contribution to this and will always look at it, precisely because we see that this is not just from the Defence Department. It's exactly like you said: if you don't do this, it has consequences. It is then both direct damage and what governance agreement is there, what does that mean and what are the fees? As well as for indirect damage: what would you have expected if the barracks had arrived and what impact would that have had? If it doesn't go through, how can you ensure that you can make a contribution to this in terms of economic structural strengthening? That can be done in a broad sense. Several questions have been asked by your Chamber. That can be done in a very broad sense and is not just a matter of the Defense Department. That is also a cabinet responsibility. That is why we have written down that this is the cabinet's and that it needs to be looked at widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u23	But it's only now, apparently. I understand that alternative locations have already been considered at an earlier stage, but that alternatives to Zeeland have not also been considered or worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u24	In any case, alternatives have been looked at from the Defence Department when it comes to not going to Zeeland. But if you want to do this in a good way and shape the economic strengthening, you need to look at it more broadly. Then it will also become a cabinet responsibility and it will be discussed wider in the cabinet. Precisely because this is such a decision that I realise its impact, this has also become a cabinet decision. So we could see: if you make one decision, what consequences does that have? That's what you asked for. These are things that are incredibly connected. Mr Van der Staaij asked: shouldn't you have finished this already? I'd rather you didn't. But also here it must take place in conversation with Zeeland, to see what it means both for the cabinet and for Zeeland if you look at direct and indirect damage associated with not moving the marines. What does that mean and what does it mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u26	Really to finish, at least at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yeah, to finish at this point. In this part of the argument, the Secretary of State makes the terms "final decision" and "preliminary decision" a bit of a mess. What's the matter for now, and what's the big deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u28	The cabinet has said, precisely for the reason that Mr Van der Staaij said: if you take such a decision, you must not only say that one decision is being taken, namely not going to Vlissingen, but that you must also be able to clarify the compensation. And you have to make that decision on the same day. That is why a proposed decision has been chosen, because we had not yet completed the section on compensation. You can't make both decisions until you make them to Vlissingen and the compensation if you take them on the same day, even in the Council of Ministers. That's what the Cabinet thinks is important. That is why a planned decision has been taken. That was because the second aspect, the compensation part, had not yet been addressed in the talks with Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u29	The Secretary of State acknowledges that she made a big mistake and that the cabinet made a big mistake. The Secretary of State also expresses the hope, and actually makes the promise, that things will be better, that things will be different. But I have great doubts about that and I would like to put to the Secretary of State why. The Secretary of State says that she didn't want this, and that she was so busy with the content that she actually passed on to the rest of the world, the province and the region. But isn't that the basis for that content, the administrative contract with Zeeland? That's the other side of the picture, isn't it? This is reduced to "yes, it has gone wrong; I did not want this image and this effect." But the Secretary of State must acknowledge that this has not only been an improper but also an incomplete process, which should never have been presented in this way in the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u30	I've told you how I look back at the trial. I didn't want to take that off in a way like there was nothing going on. In my opinion, I have admitted that this should have been different. But as Secretary of Defense, I also have a responsibility for the future of my Marines. I have a responsibility to ensure that we can rely not only on it now, but also on you in the future, because it is ultimately about our safety that there are enough marines. If I have doubts about this in relation to the move, it is also my responsibility to think about what that means and whether there are alternatives. I indicated to you that I should have put that on the table much earlier, to Zeeland and to you. I didn't. That's what I learn. It should have been different. But I think that from my responsibility as Secretary of Defense, I should ensure that I look at the permanence and continuity of the Corps. When I see that there is an outflow, especially with the experienced Petty Officers, those are the men who ensure that young people are well trained and well deployed in the fight............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Then I can't close my eyes to that. Then I need to see what else I can do about it. Of course, other parts of the Defense Department are also discharged, but this is not the case with the link with a proposed relocation. That's all right here. That is one aspect that I can influence, along with all kinds of other aspects. That is the balance that I have made and which I have placed on the Council of Ministers. If that concern of mine wasn't so fundamental, I wouldn't have brought it in. This means that there are concerns. There are also those concerns from the staff. Those concerns are also from an operational point of view. If we want to ensure that the corps can be properly deployed, then we need a good practice location and good training facilities. So I looked at that again. These results have led to this balance. So I put that consideration into the cabinet, not because I thought "I'll bring it in for a moment," but because this is genuinely the concern of my responsibility as Secretary of State for Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u31	No one denies that concern, no one in this whole room. No one denies the responsibility that the Secretary of State does indeed have for her staff. However, the Secretary of State does not deny that the factor-Flossingen is merely a determining factor in whether or not to stay on and fill the corps. Nor does the Secretary of State deny it. What I do hear the Secretary of State running away from is for another responsibility. In this whole process, you heard and heard that, before making a total weighing-down, you look at the consequences and that you understand what the compensation for Flushing is. Then you would have had an overall picture and you could have presented a number of scenarios. To be honest, that was also my picture in the debate we had with the Secretary of State in 2018. That has actually been a bit the assumption of a lot of Members of Parliament. Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u32	I think I have recognised more than equestrianly that this should have been done better. On your question whether this should have been otherwise, I have deliberately indicated to you that this should have been different. I chose this. I indicated that was a mistake on my part. But it wasn't just about my worries about the outflow. A number of elements came together. As a result, I said: if I look again at the move now, what balancing framework do I use? Then it's about the work-private balance. Then it's about how you make sure people don't have to sleep inside. I have looked at all the elements you have been able to see in the overview. A second aspect that comes with it is the changing labour market. We see that at least the number of young people will not increase, and that is really what the Marine Corps depends on. You can see that the pressure on the labour market will only increase. Then there is the combination with the changing security situation. The Marine Corps is more dedicated to the first main task: the defense of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the NATO alliance. This means that there is another way of practicing and that other locations are needed. There were no such circumstances in 2012. Then there was another situation and there was another question. These two aspects together mean that I have come to another consideration. I have already referred to you, and I shall do so again to Mrs Karabulut, who should have done otherwise, to Zeeland and also to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u33	It wasn't just supposed to be different. Zeeland should have been involved from the outset and should have been part of it. We know all the investigations and all the facts the Secretary of State mentions. No one denies its importance. Only, the Secretary of State also has a greater administrative responsibility. That's what I'm trying to figure out, because the Secretary of State promises to make us feel better, but I still doubt it. Finally, one final question. When did the Secretary of State decide to investigate alternative locations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u34	The formal alternative research started in May 2019. That's when the order was given. I indicated to you that, when doubts arose in mid-2018, I discussed with the municipality of Utrechtse Heuvelrug whether it was an alternative at all to stay in Doorn. In the autumn of 2019, because we were talking to the municipality of Rotterdam about the special units, the discussion started from Rotterdam about whether Rotterdam would be a suitable location. Are there any suitable locations to find? Exploratory discussions have taken place about this, to see if that was possible and whether there were locations available. But precisely because I wanted to do this in a good way, I said that we are going to do this differently. We are going to do this in a way where I draw up a clear balancing framework at the front and order a broad look in the Netherlands. That's the formal research on alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u35	But this suggests that an informal decision has already been taken. Is that right? When was that? I have a commitment in front of me in a letter dated 5 October 2018, which states that no irreversible steps are being taken with regard to Vlissingen location. Does this not mean that the Secretary of State was already investigating alternatives earlier than in May 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u36	I have indicated to you that I would not take irreversible steps. I indicated to you that my decision did not fall until the end of last year, beginning of this year. I hadn't made another decision. I was having second thoughts. That doubt initially, quite logically, led to the thought: can we not stay at the Doorn location? I also had those conversations with Utrechtse Heuvelrug, because it also had other plans for the whole area. Rotterdam also came on the table, because Rotterdam said: we are talking to you about the special units. Then we talked to Rotterdam about whether you can look at the Marine Corps more broadly. At some point in May 2019 I said that we should not do this. If I am considering not going to Vlissingen, I would first of all like to have a clear overview of what is going on in the balancing framework for myself. So what are the considerations for me now? You have been able to read that back in the balancing framework. At that time, the formal mandate was given to the study of alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u37	The Secretary of State has now apologized a number of times and indicated that I should have done it differently and that Zeeland and the Chamber should have been involved in the process earlier. My question is about the process she's gone through. Actually, in my words, it exploded in her face in the run-up to the relevant ministerial council. Zeeland was getting wind that something would be on the agenda there. How and when was the Secretary of State intending to inform Zeeland in her mind? I have the feeling that this happened with an accomplished fact, after the Council of Ministers had given it its full support. Is that correct, or did the Secretary of State have another timetable in mind when she was going to inform Zeeland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u38	In the process I chose, I wanted to make the decision before I caused any unrest. That is why I decided that the Council of Ministers should take a decision and I would then inform Zeeland. As you said, that has had a counterproductive effect. It's accomplished exactly what I didn't want to achieve. But that's the choice I made. I indicated that I now look back on that differently, that I should have done it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u39	I understand that, but is my conclusion correct that the outcome of the course of action, the path that the Secretary of State followed, was that Zeeland was faced with an accomplished fact, because the Secretary of State already had the entire Council of Ministers, including the Prime Minister, behind him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u40	Given that this is an important decision, this has also been dealt with in the Council of Ministers. That indicates it's wider than me. It's really something from the Council of Ministers. After a decision by the Council of Ministers, you'll inform the decision-makers. Looking back on it now, I'm really pulling myself on. I should have done it differently. You can say: you might have done that already in May 2018, when I got the first signals, or when there were discussions with Rotterdam or the Utrecht Hillback, or later, when it came to the actual formal alternative research. That's all been moments. I didn't choose to do that, because my intention was to make a decision only when it was all worked out and I had done my homework to see if Vlissingen is a suitable location. Only then did I want to make the decision and say: maybe or maybe not. That's what I chose, but that wasn't right. So I should have done that differently. I chose to introduce it first into the Council of Ministers, given the impact of the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u41	That's clear. Rounding up. The moment when you take Zeeland into this whole decision-making process is one thing. The role you then give your contract partner is something else. There's a difference. You can tell your contract partner: I have a problem, with a dilemma, and I want to see how we can deal with it and come to a solution. You can also say: boys, we made this decision, please, good luck with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u42	Yes. But I think I have already responded several times to Mr Kerstens, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u43	Yes. Mr. Krol, you've just been here. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes, but I would like to touch on another point, Madam President, if you will excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u45	Another point, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u46	You know I don't interrupt so much, but now I really need it. We live in 2020. In the past, drivers from behind their desks could make decisions, think about it, doubt about it and then come out with a decision. Now, in 2020, aren't we used to being a driver when there are doubts, you discuss them with your partners? I want to look to the future. Can I have confidence in this Secretary of State in the future that she will never again make such a regentesque decision? 'Cause that's how it looks to me. She wanted to know for herself first and then come out. Why not just share your doubts and allow the other to think with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u47	Yes. Mr Krol is quite right about that. I should have. I told you not to do that. In the end, it's up to you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yeah, that question's been asked before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u49	... because that's how we do it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u50	I've never seen a Mr. Krol so angry. Mr Krol is always quiet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u51	He'll smile now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u52	I've never seen that in his contributions. If this Secretary of State even gets Mr Krol so angry, then a lot has happened. My question is this. The Secretary of State was once an official at the Ministry of Finance. She was a councilman in Zaandam. She has been an alderman and she has been a Member of Parliament and now she is Secretary of State. Someone experienced. She did this knowingly and knowingly. She's more or less gambled and lost. If you are willing to do so knowingly and you know what the consequences are for such a province with all those directors, how do you expect to restore that confidence? Will you be able to do that? We've got another year to go. You'll be Secretary of State for another year, at most, if it doesn't end today. But what kind of plan do you have? How are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u53	I have already pointed out to Mr Öztürk that I thought this was such a big decision that if I came to another decision, I would have to do it carefully and get my homework in order. So I've focused on the content. With that, I have not sufficiently kept the administrative process under review. I realize that this has consequences when it comes to trusting me, including from Zeeland. That's what I indicated, including towards the people in the public gallery, and you can't just fix it. This has to do with you having to start talking about that. I will, and I will continue to do so. Ultimately, this is also something that will have to grow slowly, which has not been restored immediately with what I am saying, so this also has to do with getting back to the conversation, which I also did, with the Commissioner sitting around the table again. It's gonna have to grow slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u54	The Secretary of State will take her service car to another province tomorrow and there she will talk to drivers. What do you think these drivers are thinking? What do you think all those people you're gonna meet are gonna think about what you're gonna do again? In the coming period, therefore, you will have to suffer that pain every day in order to perform your duties. Are you not afraid that this will not enable you to perform your duties properly, that you will not be able to carry out the duties of the Chamber, that you, as Secretary of State, are more or less prevented from being able to function fully?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u55	No, because otherwise I wouldn't be standing here and I would have drawn my consequences. I made a mistake and I admitted it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u56	But you have done this a number of times now and I feel very uncomfortable when it is repeated every time. That's clear. So try to keep it a little businesslike, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u57	I will, Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of files, and I do my best every day, both within the Defense Department, towards my staff, to make sure that things get in order, as well as out there. And I'm gonna keep doing that. I have every confidence that I can do that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u58	The same applies to the Chamber. At some point you will also make appointments with the Chamber or make commitments. How can I feel like: isn't there another military coup or a military plan or a plan 2 of hers? How can I get the confidence that you're not doing anything else and you're telling the Chamber something else? Let us be honest, it is difficult for us to make agreements with you and to be able to function.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u59	I think you've known me for a while in this room, and you've seen me operate, too. I'm gonna open it up and I'm gonna be transparent. I have indicated something in this dossier and I have also said that I am drawing my lessons from it. In the end, it's up to you to make the decision when it comes to the trust you have in me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u60	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u61	I think I have also answered a lot of questions that see in the process. For example, Mr Van Helvert asked why Vlissingen was not chosen. I have indicated to you: on the one hand, the concern surrounding the staff when it comes to the work-private balance and what that means, and on the other hand, a barracks that meets the requirements we set. In that balance, we finally said that New Milligen would be the best location. Then there are questions about compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u62	Although the President finds it uncomfortable, I think it is a good thing that the Secretary of State has clearly apologized.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u63	Yeah, it's just that it's been repeated a couple of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u64	I wanted to ask you about the reasons why the Secretary of State finally came to the intended decision. One of the reasons is the financial balance. To what extent is there a risk that, if we are going to compensate, the financial situation for a barracks in, for example, New Milligen will prove more expensive than in Vlissingen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u65	That's two separate routes. What I sent you is the comparison between New Milligen and Vlissingen sec. I would not want to mix that with a discussion on how that relates to possible compensation. You have been able to see that the fee is stated around the direct costs. That's in the financial records I sent you. They're commercially confidential, so I can't say anything about it. I'd really like to separate those two files. It concerns the assessment of the barracks in Vlissingen versus the possible barracks in Nieuw-Miligen. Those two were compared, also in terms of cost. You have seen the difference in this. Compensation is a broader responsibility. Of course, it is not just money that I have actually heard you say that, but also the question of how to do this economic strengthening in a good way. Of course, that's wider than just the DOD. Defence is of a lot of things, but not of economic structural strengthening. That is why we have said: it is cabinet responsibility to see how this can be done. It's also being picked up under the direction of the Home Secretary. Mrs Diks mentioned a number of options. I've heard them from Zeeland in various ways. It just needs to be looked at in a good way. What is it and what is a justified package from the cabinet side and from the Zeeland side?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u66	That's quite right. It's an important task for the consultant. The Secretary of State says we need to see it separately. I understand that, but it could be that the costs for New Milligen and the compensation, which we can't add up, are higher than what the barracks in Vlissingen would cost. So basically that could be done, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u67	This is a then, where I should also mention a number of other things when it comes to confidential data. You can see in the letter that additional costs are involved if we also have to implement participation. In any case, additional costs would be charged in Vlissingen. They're not embedded in the finances I sent you because they're not in the barracks in New Milligen either. I've tried to put both barracks and their finances side by side in what's needed and what's not needed. So I cannot give that answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u68	To Mr Van Helvert, that uncomfortable feeling has nothing to do with apologizing, but with repeating, repeating, repeating. That's what I meant. Other than that, I'm not in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u69	The Secretary of State wanted to move on to the compensation questions, but I still have a question about the trial. We discussed that Zeeland should have been approached earlier, that the hesitations should have been discussed, including as an administrative partner, but there is something else that I have not heard from the Secretary of State. What's bothering the people in Zeeland is that they feel like they're just being fooled. They were asked about the rumors, but they wouldn't be right, and the people of the Defense Department would just be cooperating with them, even though they already knew that wasn't the case. Does the Secretary of State still want to respond to that aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u70	Because the decision of 2012 was still in place. No new decision had been made. That's why they've been working on it. There was no new decision not to go to Vlissingen. I said what I said. I'm not going to repeat myself. I've indicated that I should have done it differently. Work has been continued because we had not yet taken a new decision. It's crazy to quit because we had that deal with each other. I have already said that it should have been on the table earlier, so that we could have talked about it. Mr Van der Staaij is right to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u71	But it is not just about things that have been kept secret, but also things that have been denied if there were any questions or if new steps had to be taken. At least that's what we hear again. That's how the experience was. Afterwards, people wonder: what kind of play were we in? That's what people feel. I think that is an independent element in the review.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u72	Yes. I've given an evasive answer and put the Zeeuws on the wrong foot. That's right. On this point, I said that, for me, the balance was that I didn't want to cause any unrest. I hadn't made the decision yet. I just wanted to make sure this was a good decision first. I said that was a mistake on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u73	Is the image that the Zeeland have and have declared that the Secretary of State has lied to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u74	I don't know what's been said by the Zeeuws. I've indicated what my image is. I also indicated how I should have done it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u75	I think that conclusion is clear. My question is about costs. The Secretary of State had the idea of getting the decision through politically smoothly. This has been the cause of unrest in the cabinet because of Deputy Prime Minister De Jonge. It was then decided to leave the compensation and handling with Zeeland to the Home Office. Can the Secretary of State tell us exactly why that choice was made in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u76	I think I just answered that. I have indicated that this is not just a responsibility of the Defense Department. You have to look at the strengthening of the economic structure. DOD knows a lot of things, but they don't. You want to do that in a good way with the parties that work with it every day. For example, within the Home Office, the region is looked at together with the Minister of LNV. There is talk daily about what can and what is going on in the region. There is knowledge and know-how in this area. That is why it was chosen to do this under the direction of the Home Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u78	It is argued from Zeeland that these costs for compensation, but also indeed for the development and strengthening of the economic structure, are higher than those assumed by the Secretary of State. Suppose that would involve very high costs and would make the Marine Firehouse in Vlissingen cheaper, will the Secretary of State remain in this decision? Who's gonna pay for the extra cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u79	This has become a cabinet responsibility. That is quite clear with this decision. We see that, also in the context of restoring trust, you need to take a broader approach to this. You can't solve this from the DOD alone. The Decision consists of two separate acts. The decision not to move the marine barracks to Vlissingen has really to do with our concerns, my concerns, with regard to the future stability and continuity of the corps. In any case, that will always be a matter of weighing up the cabinet. That is why the cabinet has taken this decision. That's a separate decision. This is linked to another decision, which we have said should be taken on the same day. If you decide one way, you have to look at the other. Expectations have been raised with the arrival of a Marine barracks. There's direct damage. What impact does that have? And how are you going to implement the compensation package with measures? Let's not write that down on our own right now. Let us do this together with Zeeland and let us not direct it directly from the Minister or the Secretary of State, but let us do it with a special advisor appointed and supported by both Zeeland and the cabinet. Let us see how he or she is able to implement this in the short term because he or she has not yet been appointed. My colleague, Mr Knops, has already spoken with Zeeland about this this week to see how this can be looked at. After the summer recess, a letter will be sent to the Chamber in which we will discuss how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u81	Does the Secretary of State rule out that the Marine Station will still be in Vlissingen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u82	I didn't bring this care into the cabinet for nothing. I don't do that if I don't honestly think this is not going well. So that's what I did. That is why this proposed decision is there. If you make this decision, it is important, precisely because of the expectations, that you link the compensation package to it, because those two things are connected. You have to make that decision at the same time. In the end, it is a matter for the cabinet to consider these two separate decisions, but of course they are linked and must be taken on the same day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u83	That's exactly what I wanted to go on about. I have said that it is impossible for the Labour Party to reach an agreement with Zeeland on that compensation and yet decides that the barracks will not be there. The Secretary of State has indicated that these decisions are taken on the same day. They have a lot of relationship with each other, she acknowledges that and sees them, of course. But could it be that on one and the same day the decision is taken that there is no agreement on that compensation and that the decision is then taken not to go to Zeeland with that barracks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u84	That will ultimately be a trade-off within the cabinet. I can't anticipate what that balance will be like. Everything is aimed at looking together with Zeeland, by the Special Advisor under the direction of the Interior, at what could be a fair compensation package. In the end, it is up to the cabinet to take these two decisions together. The question has been asked what the compensation package looks like and what it means. But the fact that the cabinet says "we only make that decision on the same day" indicates that these two things are connected. That is also why we want to take them on the same day, because you have to weigh those two things together, also as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u85	I'll give you the floor in a moment, Mr. Kerstens, but I'm curious to see what the sequel to the Secretary of State's speech is. Maybe that'll help if you have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u86	I was going to go to the compensation, Mr President, because the questions were mainly about the process and compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u87	Then I'll ask my question and the Secretary of State can take it right away. Things that seem self-evident no longer reassure me in this process. If I do test the space in the answers of the Secretary of State, we can hardly imagine that it could be that 'we decide almost simultaneously: no agreement on compensation and yet not to Vlissingen', that does not reassure me. The letter sent by the Secretary of State on Friday contained a number of paragraphs on that compensation. There is talk of a careful process with an advisor present and in involvement with Zeeland. Does that mean that it is ultimately up to Zeeland to determine whether the compensation package is sufficient, yes or no? Can Zeeland say no? Can Zeeland say: this is not enough? And does that mean there's no compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u88	You've made that clear. This question is included in your answer? You may also answer him now, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u89	You have read in the letter of the Chamber that it must be an acceptable package both for the cabinet and for Zeeland. That goes on both sides. That is why I also said that this weighting will eventually take place in the cabinet. Of course, it is not for nothing that there is a special advisor and that it goes in consultation with Zeeland. In the end, it must be an acceptable package for both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u90	It is good that the Secretary of State once again stresses that it must be a good package for both parties. We'll wait and see. I am also left with the text of Friday's letter, in which the Secretary of State has already released a number of elements of that compensation package. We have of course also heard the sounds of Zeeland. They are talking about compensation for direct damage, but also about compensation for indirect damage, the income they will no longer receive. The Secretary of State did not explicitly say anything about this in her letter of Friday. Can she comment on this and on the point that Zeeland wants compensation for the image damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u91	The letter mentions it as one of the elements that needs to be further worked out. It is also part of the task of the Special Adviser to work out what the indirect damage would be. It is quite clear in the letter that there is no discussion about direct damage. The second aspect is indirect damage. That needs to be looked at: what do we mean by it? What does that mean? The third element is linked to the strengthening and image of the locational environment. How can you involve that? Then you have the combination with that economic structural strengthening, which you could read in the cabinet letter. We have been asked what this package of concrete measures looks like. This can be partly financial, but also political. There are all kinds of possible ways to look at this, but it must be linked to that economic strengthening and thus to improving the locational climate in Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u92	That answer is clear. I had also asked a question about the image damage suffered. Can the Secretary of State promise that the consultant will take this point from Zeeland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u93	Yeah, that's part of the image of the locational climate. It says explicitly in the order to take this with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u94	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u95	I was at the block compensation packages. I think I have already answered a lot of questions because of the interruptions. Mr Van Helvert also asked about the special advisor. I think I've gone into that. A number of MPs indicated to look at the word "ruthful." I believe that I indicated in my reply that we are aware of the need to look at compensation on a number of fronts and, consequently, at the strengthening of economic structures. We will also take the appeal of the Chamber into account. Mr Voordewind asked to arrange the special advisor for the summer. I have just indicated that Mr Knops has spoken with the King's Commissioner. It has been agreed that, after the recess, which will be for this region next week, a letter will be sent to the States of Zeeland and the House of Representatives, to indicate what the assignment is, who will carry out the assignment and what the timetable is. I think it is important for all the parties concerned to be clear about the way and the way in which it is done. Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look at the questions. I think that I have answered all the questions about compensation, unless I have forgotten something very specific. I see Mrs Karabulut wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u96	I do have a question for the Secretary of State. It's like this. We have talked about lying to the Zeeuws, but we as the Lower House have not been informed by the Secretary of State, although it has been mentioned in several ways. Can the Secretary of State still reflect on that? Is my impression that the spokesmen of the coalition have been informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u97	In my reply, I took that into account by saying that I should have included Zeeland, and with that your Chamber, in the doubts I had. So I have just answered your question about what is being discussed with or not with the coalition. The same applies outside the coalition. I have regular conversations. There's a lot of talk going on there. I do not think it is appropriate to discuss all kinds of issues here. When making major decisions, however, the coalition will be briefly informed about them. That is what has happened in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u98	I am very sorry, but I find this far too easy. I think it's really too easy. You say that you formally said that this informally happened a long time ago, and that it was already last year working on alternatives. That was almost a year ago, if it's no longer. There were all kinds of calculations and pieces of officials and you haven't informed us all this time. My question is, do you think that's normal? How should we be able to rely on you in the future, given the other issues that remain ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u99	I've already gone into that. I've indicated that I've made a trade-off. I didn't want to go back to a decision until I made a completely different decision. I have taken a number of steps to this end. I have faced Zeeland with this, but also the Chamber. I should have brought you in together. That wasn't good of me. I repeat what I said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u100	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u101	Finally. Last Friday we received the pieces, which showed that the alternatives were in sight at least from the summer onwards. Have the members of the coalition parties also received these documents last Friday, or have they been able to get to know any evidence regarding alternative locations before?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u102	The coalition parties didn't get any documents. As I have just indicated, in the case of large decisions by the cabinet, you inform the coalition in advance. That doesn't make any sense either. That's what happened here. The coalition has been informed, but has not received any documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u103	On the question of compensation, I had the question of whether the Secretary of State could confirm that, of course, these are not matters which have already been promised to Zeeland or which have already been discussed, but that they can really only be new elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u104	If your question is whether, for example, the regional deal counts last Friday... No, she's not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u105	Okay, clear. The Secretary of State has already said something in the letter and in the explanatory statement on speed, that it is desirable to be able to take steps before the summer. Does this also mean that funding must be guaranteed quickly and that it must be possible, for example, to reach the end of the Spring paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u106	I don't want to anticipate that. As I have just said, I can imagine that there can be a package in part financial but also in a number of other ways. I think the special advisor should look into this with Zeeland. Everything I say about this is ahead of time. I think, and Mr Bosman also indicated, that this process should be discussed with Zeeland to see what it means. I think it is important to be able to clarify this as soon as possible, including to your Chamber, to make sure that what is now the perspective is clear. I think that's a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u107	Finally. I also say it because everyone is now outraged and says: we really need to offer ample compensation. But practice also learns that that easily runs away over time, if you continue to steal for a while. What kind of pressure is there for business to be done in good time and quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u108	I believe that Mr Bosman has expressly stated that this cannot wait. I have heard Mr Van Helvert ask this very strongly. So the two decisions are in this sense also linked. There's definitely a link there. If you make one decision, it is also linked to the compensation package. There is no need to postpone this, because from the role of Defense you want clarity quickly, but also to Zeeland itself you want clarity quickly. I have not experienced that the Chamber has just said to me: take it easy. I have also heard Mr Van Helvert and Mr Bosman say: speed up and make sure that you look as quickly as possible at how this special advisor is working. Make sure it is generous and see how direct damage and indirect damage can be compensated, and get back to the Chamber as soon as possible. This is quite apart from considerations in the cabinet. I have heard Members say: take part in the Chamber too. I think I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u109	Thank you. With this we have arrived at the second term of office. Mr. Van der Staaij has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u110	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I would like, in preparation for the second term, to have another fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u111	Is everyone okay with that? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u112	Let's move on to the debate. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate on this incorruptible matter. I think it is a good thing that the Secretary of State has already made an apology and that she has repeated it in this Chamber this afternoon. The Zeeuwen are shabby, they feel humiliated and of course they are extremely angry at The Hague. That is quite understandable, because how it happened: the dogs do not yet like a piece of bread. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State must now work together with the Zeeuws to restore confidence and a good compensation package. Of course the Zeeuws have to decide how and what to do, but for GroenLinks it is very important to strengthen Zeeland's appeal to young people. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Zeeland should be generously compensated for failing to continue the planned decision to move the Marine Firehouse to Vlissingen;]] [[Whereas it is particularly important for Zeeland to strengthen the binding power of the province for young people in order to sustainably strengthen the economic development of the province;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Zeeland authorities, to develop the compensation package for Zeeland explicitly and nationally to consider options to sustainably strengthen the binding power of the province of Zeeland for young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Diks, Mr Kerstens, Mr Krol and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33358-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u114	Thank you, Mr President. It was necessary for the Secretary of State to look the people of Zeeland in the eye today and apologize for the late moment when Zeeland was included in her dilemma, as she herself called it, and for the way it was done. It doesn't matter to confront a co-government, a contract partner, with a fulfilled fact. The Secretary of State also realises that this is not the end of the bargain and that confidence is far from being restored. The question is whether that will come back to Zeeland. What I think can play a role in this is the compensation that is being discussed. What does not reassure me is that the possibility is left open that Zeeland will have no barracks and no decent compensation. That cannot be true as far as the Labour Party is concerned, and that is why I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has taken two planned decisions: not to move the Marine Station to Vlissingen and to compensate Zeeland for this;]] [[Whereas it is impossible for such removal to continue without agreement on compensation;]] [[calls on the Government not to take the final decision on the non-movement of the Marine Station until after agreement has been reached on compensation for Zeeland,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Krol, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Karabulut.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33358-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u115	Thank you, Mr President. What should have been smoothly politically tapped in the coalition, namely pushing through the decision not to build the marine barracks in Vlissingen, was different, which made it clear that the Secretary of State knew all along, for at least a year, that alternatives were being sought. That is unacceptable. That's inappropriate governance. That is inappropriate for the Zeeuwen, for the province, for the municipality and for the House of Representatives, and that is ultimately also very damaging for the Defence Department. That is why my group has signed the motion of censure which Mr van der Staaij will be tabling shortly. Mr. Chairman. Much remains to be done about the compensation and the follow-up. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 2012 it was decided that the Marine Firehouse in Doorn would be closed and replaced by a barracks in the municipality of Vlissingen;]] [[noting that the municipality of Vlissingen and province of Zeeland have already implemented several preparatory measures in order to implement the 2012 decision;]] [[Notes that in January 2020 the Municipality of Vlissingen and the Province of Zeeland were informed of "a dilemma' by the leadership of the Ministry of Defence and that it would consider the 2012 decision "possible';]] [[Considers that the way in which the decision to prepare and establish a barracks in New Mills and at the same time by working with the authorities in Zeeland is a form of inappropriate governance that has caused a shock of mistrust;]] [[calls on the Government to reimburse the municipality of Vlissingen and the province of Zeeland for all costs incurred;]] [[calls on the Government to grant very generous compensation to the province of Zeeland with a view to achieving a structural, sustainable and generous improvement in the regional economy;]] [[calls on the Government to provide compensation for damage to the image and for the duration of the conflict;]] [[invites the Government not to convert the proposed decision into a final decision until the compensation has been adequately settled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Kerstens, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Bertema and Mr Diks.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33358-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you, Madam President. The apologies made by the Secretary of State are justified. Because the inhabitants of Zeeland but also the Zeeland drivers are hurt. It is not a bad thing that a few weeks ago we, as directors, sat together with the King's Commissioner and could not talk about it, and suddenly it turns out to be so different a few weeks later. There is still a great deal of work to be done. Everything must be aimed at ensuring that my group will do the same, and that is why we immediately asked for clarity and openness about pieces as soon as we knew what was going on in order to ensure that Zeeland on the one hand came out as strong as possible. We must therefore ensure that the cabinet and the consultant are in a position to do so. On the other hand, we need a good barracks for Marines. Those two sides are important. I have the next motion to ensure that the two proposed decisions will not be taken separately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has taken two planned decisions on the Marine Firehouse; on the one hand, it has decided not to move the Firehouse to Vlissingen; on the other hand, it has decided to cooperate with Zeeland on an acceptable compensation package;]] [[whereas the confidence of the Zeeuws has been violated by failing to comply with the 2012 agreement and that the Chamber has broadly stated that compensation must be generous;]] [[states that the two proposed acts referred to above cannot be taken on a final basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Bosman, Mr Belhaj, Mr Voordewind, Mr Kerstens, Mr Krol and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33358-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u118	I now give the floor to Mr Van der... I see Mr Voordewind walking forward, but I would first like to give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u119	Madam President. Zeeland is offended and fooled, so I brought forward in the first term. In fact, the answer given by the Secretary of State shows that that is true, that a lot has gone wrong. Of course, where there's meatloaf, there's chips falling. But there are also decisions and processes that you look back at and say: this could not have been done and should not have been done. "It could have been different and different," to quote former Prime Minister Lubbers. This is a strong political signal that I would like to send out by means of a motion of censure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet had taken the decision not to move the Marine Station to Vlissingen,]] [[Considering that the original 2012 decision was also intended to compensate for the large loss of state jobs in Zeeland in the years before, and therefore to provide additional care;]] [[Whereas the decision-making process for not moving the marine barracks to Vlissingen is seriously flawed, inter alia, in the alignment with Zeeland and the failure to provide and discuss an alternative to Zeeland;]] [[Whereas this has seriously damaged the confidence of the region in the cabinet as an administrative partner;]] [[expresses its disapproval of the government's policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Kerstens, Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33358-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u120	This is a motion of censure. You say: a short question. Why? What does that mean politically? A lot of people are watching now. What does a motion of censure mean? You're just gonna let the Secretary of State dangle for a while? Or are you saying that it is actually a motion of censure, but I leave it to the Secretary of State? Or are you saying that I had the motion ready yesterday and I was able to file it now? What does it mean in concrete terms for the people who are now looking from Zeeland?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u121	A motion of censure means that you actually want to give the strongest possible signal of substance that this decision-making could not have been so real, that it could have been better and should have been better. Actually, you're hitting the fingers. This really is a political signal. This is a big fail. This must be taken into account. What's the effect? Suppose this motion is passed, that one of the coalition parties would say: we support this too. Then you saw in the past that some rulers had their consequences. That may well be, given the seriousness of the motion, but that is not what the signatories intend in advance. They do not say: this is what needs to be done. The content is at the forefront here. It's a big fail. This can't be happening. The political consequences will then also depend on the broad support given to the motion. I hope, in any case, that Mr Öztürk will also support us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u122	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u123	If you get a big "D" on your report at school, you won't pass. Then you're gonna sit tight. You're leaving the Secretary of State in her place right now. You say this is a yellow card, a heavy medicine. But she can get away with this. That was already known yesterday. You're letting her get away with this. I think what everyone here has said is so hard that that's not enough, Mr. Van der Staaij. You agree with me, don't you? You're a party that's been around for 100 years and is purely assessing these cases. And she did something that really can't be done, didn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u124	Just because I want to judge it purely, I found a motion of censure appropriate here. It is also a government-wide responsibility, because it is not just about the responsibility of the Secretary of State. She also said it: this was such an important decision that the cabinet as a whole took it. This is also about compensation. Mr Öztürk is somewhat stuck in the frame that a motion of censure is all that matters. That is not the case. This is simply another form of a heavy political signal that we consider appropriate here. It is not that this was the only outcome of the debate for me. It has really depended on the way the debate has gone. We discussed that with each other. I also had other variants in mind and in preparation, but we think that this is the best sign, given the debate we have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u125	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mrs Belhaj has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u126	I have a small question. Mr Van der Staaij's motion is almost out of proportion to the seriousness with which it is tabled. But I am a little surprised at the fact that Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet are underneath. We had a debate earlier on how important it is to draw heavy conclusions only at the end. And then there will be a motion signed by two people who have not taken part in it. I was just wondering if you'd like us to make a habit of that, or if you'd prefer to sign that kind of motion, you'd just be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u127	What has happened here is that those who were not present, but who apparently followed the debate, have indicated that we understand that this is being prepared; can we get back to it? I have indeed replied in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u128	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mr Voordewind has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard the Secretary of State right. She was right to apologize to the Zeeuws and to the Zeeland leaders. She has indicated that these excuses also apply to the Chamber. She shouldn't have done it like this. She called it a mistake and said: this should not have happened. It is important for the Secretary of State to say so, including for the Christian Union Group. At the same time, we must not stop at this. We need to learn lessons from this. That is why the Christian Union has also signed a motion to be submitted. Mr. Chairman. I come to the final decision; this is a planned decision. We think it is important to combine the two elements, the decision and the compensation package. We will not give a final verdict as a group until that generous compensation package is in place. So we will keep our judgment to ourselves until that package is there and until that agreement between Zeeland and Defence is there. Finally, Mr President, I have the next motion on the compensation package. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that a generous compensation package should be provided for the province of Zeeland if the move from the naval station to Vlissingen does not take place;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the compensation package, in addition to structural strengthening measures of equivalent magnitude to the effects that the Marine Firehouse would have brought with it, the following elements:]] [[consider reimbursement of the costs already incurred and indirect costs;]] [[in the context of strengthening the locational environment, consider, for example, the improvement of the accessibility of Zeeland,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bosman, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33358-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u131	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mr. Chairman. It's a difficult trade-off. All of Zeeland is angry; administrative Zeeland is angry. The Chamber doesn't think it's possible what the Secretary of State did. Mr Van der Staaij is throwing a rescue buoy, yesterday, to save the Secretary of State. And then they want to move on to the order of the day. I asked the Secretary of State, "How are you going to restore confidence with the Zeeuws, with the directors and with the Chamber? What is your plan?" I didn't really get a clear answer to that, which makes me feel like this is going to work out. I have a motion of censure before me. On the other hand, I have just had a debate with Mr Van der Staaij, who says: a motion of opposition censure that may be supported by a coalition colleague who has the guts to support the fair story here, may mean that the Secretary of State himself is considering whether it can still function in this way, whether she can still go to Zeeland and whether she can make arrangements with other provinces. For those reasons, I do not wish to table the motion now. But I'd like to make an appeal to the Secretary of State. It is about the credibility of politics, and it is about the credibility of all of us. If we let you dangle with a motion of censure over the next few weeks, months, I think that will harm you, harm us and harm the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr. Chairman. I think that from the whole Chamber various groups have asked similar, but with a different tone, legitimate questions on their own behalf, but above all on behalf of the Zeeuws and also on behalf of the Marines, who cannot defend themselves publicly. I believe that the Secretary of State has indicated, in large and several respects, that things should have been different. I think it's a good thing the Secretary of State is doing that. I have also experienced that debates took a very long time because someone, a driver, found it difficult to say: I did not do something right. There are also a number of drivers in the public gallery who, I think, recognize that. I don't mean they wouldn't dare say it themselves, but they'd probably recognize it. I think that's very important. Mr. Chairman. In addition, I have tried to point out that it is important that it is not just the Secretary of State who has done everything wrong here. Over the past eight years, several political parties have had different moments to ask critical questions and to discuss how the process has gone. I will not mention the list, but I have really noticed that in debates of this kind on real estate, several parliamentary groups, including a number of groups that have spoken big words today, were not present at the time when it mattered. Let us also see it as a learning process for all of us. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the process of moving the Marine Station from Doorn to Vlissingen did not go well;]] [[Whereas lessons can be drawn from such decision-making processes for the future;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to inform the Chamber of the lessons that can be learned for future location choices of Defence Real Estate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Belhaj, Mr Bosman, Mr Diks, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Kerstens, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Voordewind and Mr Bertema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33358-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mrs Belhaj may appeal to any Member of Parliament. I'm sure she has a point. In this case alone, surely it is not the Chamber that has caused the Secretary of State to make an administrative mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u136	I've reflected on what's happened over the past eight years. The Secretary of State himself has already indicated in a good way what has happened to the Zeeuws for the past three or four weeks or more weeks if you count from the moment she should have told it. That's one thing. But I also note that, over the past eight years and at the beginning of the decision-making process, motions have been tabled, that there has been a Court of Auditors report and that there have been all kinds of warnings for problems that have indeed come to light. And that makes me grumpy because it suggests that we all have a little bit of butter on our heads here, while we have very careful processes and many institutions that help us to perhaps draw certain political conclusions. One of the conclusions that should have been drawn at that time was that the six-week decision-making process was too short. Then you might as well find that you will go to Vlissingen, but the process was just way too short. It usually takes you a year. You have to do the math. You need to take a good look at what's possible. You need to take a good look at what it means to the employees. None of that happened. And now we all have the fact that we come to the conclusion that problems have indeed arisen in all these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u137	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u138	I would like to point out that in this case it is really a responsibility of the Secretary of State and the Cabinet. That is why we are here right now. Other than that, I'm fine. We all know which parties were before this and how it went. But I would appeal to keep it clean. Today, in this case, it really is the Cabinet and the Secretary of State who have been responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u139	Again, I'll split it up in half. The Secretary of State is responsible in total for everything that has happened. That's the responsibility she took. However, politically speaking, I believe that we ourselves have a responsibility, namely to see to what extent we carry out our monitoring task properly. That's why I thought it was important to name it. Anyone can do whatever they want with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u140	If I understand correctly, this motion is not about what went wrong in the decision not to go to Vlissingen, but about the 2012 decision to go from Doorn to Vlissingen, and that was a mistake and that we should learn lessons from it. Is that right? Is that the thrust of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u141	I think the case lends itself well to learning and drawing lessons for possible future removals of Defense Real Estate. Those discussions keep coming. I think this is a good reason to learn lessons. For example, start with the fact that there was no communication to Doorn, but that there was just the conclusion: we leave Doorn; good luck. In 2011 many similar debates were held, but from the perspective of the Utrecht Hillback: it goes to Zeeland. People were wondering how that could have happened and why there hadn't been a conversation. That's what we've been through since then. I think it would be a good idea for the Secretary of State to draw lessons from this case so that, in future, politically but also administratively, hopefully, we do not make the same mistakes anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u142	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u143	Finally. Okay, that's good to hear. Then I'll find that we have a very different assumption. Mrs Belhaj assumes that everything that happens now happens because it went wrong at the time. The argument given by the Secretary of State was actually a very different one. I'd like that to be noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u144	Then I'll have to correct myself. There is indeed no causal link. I just think it is important to emphasise that a number of elements from 2011 and 2012 are on the table now. If we had known that then, we could have taken action. Then it had either landed well in Vlissingen, or it was decided not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. Mr Bosman has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a big debate. A number of things have gone badly wrong. It is good that the Secretary of State has made that clear. That is another step towards restoring confidence. The cabinet had a dilemma, but with the choice made that dilemma has been shifted to administrative Zeeland. I know I'm not helping if I put pressure on the solution right now, saying I'd like to have that solution before the summer. Zeeland actually solves the cabinet dilemma by taking the dilemma on the board. That is why the Zeeland cabinet must be generously compensated. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Zeeland has an administrative agreement to move the marine barracks from Doorn to Vlissingen;]] [[Whereas the province of Zeeland, the municipality of Vlissingen and the Water Board of Scheldt flows have made investments to ensure the arrival of the barracks;]] [[Whereas the arrival of the Marines would give the region a socio-economic boost;]] [[Whereas, in the absence of the administrative agreement and therefore the failure to transfer the marine barracks to Vlissingen, the socio-economic impulse for Zeeland will not be there;]] [[noting that the administrative amalgamation of many public services has led to a high level of employment leaving Zeeland;]] [[calls on the Government to reimburse the investment costs incurred in failing to move the Marine Station to Vlissingen;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the province of Zeeland, the municipality of Vlissingen and the Waterschap Schelde Streams, to adopt, in the short term, a package of measures capable of achieving similar socio-economic effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bosman, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33358-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u147	Madam President. I was just reading article 7 of the administration agreement between Defence and the province of Zeeland. It's about cooperation and communication. It states: "The Province and Defense are committed to good mutual cooperation in order to promote optimally the location of the barracks at the Buitenhaven location in Vlissingen. The Province and Defense are committed in a communicative sense and align their communication efforts in such a way that they contribute optimally to the promotion of the establishment of the barracks." You wonder what such an agreement with this cabinet is worth. I intended to table a motion of censure, but as I said in my speech, a motion of censure, when it comes, from Mr Van der Staaij is at least as powerful. That is why I will not table my motion, especially now that I see that Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet are also signing this motion. Mr Öztürk of DENK is having doubts. I commend that. I appreciate that very much. I am very curious how GroenLinks and the PVV will ultimately judge, because everyone has to realize: what is your decision if half of the Chamber gives you an incompetence? I have wholeheartedly supported all the other motions in favour of Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u148	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. The answer given by the Secretary of State does not reassure me at all. We have heard repeated apologies, but I am still not really clear how this maladministration could be prevented in the future, and how confidence in timely and complete information to the Chamber and the local authorities will be restored. All we really know is that the Secretary of State still has confidence in himself. Also about the compensation to Zeeland we have not become very much wiser. All we've heard is sorry, but everyone's still in the dark. Meanwhile, the credibility of not only the Secretary of State, but also of politics in general is at stake. That is why I co-signed Mr Van der Staaij's motion of censure, along with a number of motions tabled by other Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u150	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u151	Thank you, Mr President. We've heard a clear mea culpa from the Secretary of State. She has also shown understanding for the dismay of the Zeeuws. The fact remains that the Secretary of State has not sufficiently informed both the Zeeuwen and the Chamber and that this process has caused enormous damage. The regrets expressed by the Secretary of State do not impress her, but her explanation that she did not want to cause any unrest and that with the knowledge of today she would otherwise organise that trajectory is not very strong. In any case, it promises transparency on subsequent routes. Well, we'll just have to wait and see. As far as we are concerned, this Secretary of State has suffered quite a scratch. It remains so until it shows that it can be done differently, transparently, taking all parties open and clear in the process. For now, she has to quickly talk to Zeeland and compensate generously. That responsibility now rests with the cabinet. I said in my first term: nothing has happened to the new housing to this day. I call on the Secretary of State to make the new housing a textbook example of the new Secretary of State 2.0: fast, decisive, open and transparent. The Marine Corps deserves that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. There is a need for a short suspension of about five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u153	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its input in both the first and the second term. I believe that we have had a strong debate with each other, in which you have also clearly indicated what you thought of the process and I have clearly indicated what lessons I draw from it. I now turn to the assessment of the motions. Some of them concern the discussion we have had with each other: on the one hand, learning from the process and, on the other hand, compensation. The motion in part No. 16 from Mrs Diks asks that together with the Zeeland drivers also look at binding force. If I could give this motion as a suggestion to the special advisor as this is also part of the discussion with Zeeland itself, I would like to give this judgment Chamber. In my view, this should also be given room for the special advisor to look at it together with Zeeland. Then the motion to part No. 17 by Mr Kerstens and a number of other members of the Chamber. The motion refers to agreement on compensation for Zeeland. I have already indicated that it is important for us to have an acceptable package both for the cabinet and for Zeeland. If Mr Kerstens is prepared to add that element, I can give the motion judgment Chamber, because otherwise it is only one way to interpret it and I must advise against it. So I'd like to ask him to take a look at that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u155	I'm going to study it for a while, because I don't want the motion to be explained in different ways. I heard the Secretary of State right. I'll get the letter from February 14th. The Secretary of State heard me very well, too. So I'm gonna take a look at it. I think we're going to vote the week after the recess. Then it has changed or has not changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u156	What if Mr Kerstens' motion is not changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u157	Then I would advise against it, Mr President, because it lacks the element of both the cabinet and the Zeeland. The same is true of the motion on item No. 18 by Mrs Karabulut when I look at what is written at the last indent about the image damage suffered and the duration of the conflict. I think it is important for the task of the special advisor that the discussion should be about how not so much the image but the locational environment and the image of it can be strengthened and put in a positive way. That is why this wording was chosen in the cabinet letter. There has been no attempt on our part to cause image damage or anything else. I would ask Mrs Karabulut to look again at both the last indent and the third indent. I would ask her to amend it, otherwise I will have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u158	I do not intend to amend the motion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u159	Then that's clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u160	Then the motion to part No. 19 by Mr Van Helvert. It is an important fact that one decision cannot be taken without the other. I have also read Mr Kerstens' motion in the first instance, in the sense that you have to bring both together, which would be my request to Mrs Karabulut as regards her motion. This motion, so the motion in part No. 19 I can give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. Of course, 20 is up to your room. As a result, I would just like to say that, as I said in my introduction, I have really learned my lesson from this. I am well aware that restoring confidence takes time, that I must commit myself to this and that I must also make it visible to both the directors and your Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Voordewind asked for a number of points to be included. In view of Mrs Diks' motion, which contains a number of suggestions, this also applies to the costs incurred, also taking into account that the Special Adviser looks at the legitimate expectations of strengthening the economic structure. If I can read the motion like that, I'll give him judgment room. Mr Voordewind gives an example, but I really see that as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u161	Okay. Then the motion to part No. 22 by Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u162	Apart from the process in this file, this is at least a lesson for all the real estate projects of the Defense Department. In the case of large real estate projects, we also need to make clear to the Chamber on the basis of which balancing framework that has been done. Make that clear, including the weighting around all those locations, so that you don't have a discussion about it afterwards: what factors were taken into account then and which are not? I'm giving this motion judgment room. I think I've had all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u163	No, there is another motion by Mr Bosman on item No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u164	It wasn't in my package, Mr. Chairman, but I'm going to read the motion very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u165	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u166	I'll give the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u167	Not very surprising. Mr President, with your permission, I would like to ask the Secretary of State another question about my motion on item No. 18. I told you I didn't intend to amend the motion, but what exactly are the Secretary of State's comments? She talked about indentations, weighting and so on. Does she still want to put that on paper so I can watch it quietly? That may lead to a modification of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u168	My comments on this motion are similar to my suggestions on Mr Kerstens' motion in part No. 17. The last indent of the operative part is replaced by the following: "then after the compensation has been adequately settled'. There must be an acceptable package both for the cabinet and for Zeeland. Moreover, in the operative part of the motion, I would refer not to 'past image damage' and 'the duration of the conflict', but to'strengthening the climate of establishment'. If you'd like to change that, the motion will be sent to the Chamber. If you don't, I'm gonna have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u169	Am I to assume that the Secretary of State denies any image damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u170	We're not going to have that discussion again. A brief response from the Secretary of State. You are free to put the motion to the vote, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u171	Exactly. Apart from that, I can say that the recitals are the words of Mrs Karabulut. I don't recognize them directly. In no way has there been any indication from the cabinet that something is going on with Zeeland. A number of Members of Parliament have also indicated this. That's not what the discussion was about. The importance of the Marine Corps is to get a good location in a good way. That's what the whole discussion was about. I think it is important, also for Zeeland itself, to look at how we strengthen the locational climate, and the image of it. How do you put that positive? We also had this discussion with Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u172	Mrs Karabulut, I am not going to give you the floor because a great deal has been said and the arguments have been sufficiently exchanged. I'd like to think of the Secretary of State. I would particularly like to thank the people who came from Zeeland today and followed this debate closely. I would also like to thank those who have not followed this debate closely. I know that a lot of Zeeuws have been able to see how the Chamber has debated this issue on the Internet, but also on a screen downstairs. You've behaved well. Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u173	Thank you and have a nice trip back to Zeeland. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-7.u174	We shall vote on Mr Van der Staaij's motion at the end of the afternoon.
