ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u1	Then we are discussing the legislative proposal 35050, amendment of various education laws by changing the system of eligibility for funding of new public and special schools so that there is more room for a new education offering, simply Law more room for new schools. I have already welcomed the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. I inform Members that in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself and then put it on the table on your left. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that Mrs Adriaansens will be making her maiden speech today. After this maiden speech, I will address Mrs Adriaansens and briefly suspend the sitting for congratulations at a distance of 1.5 metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr President, thank you. We very much allow Mrs Adriaansen to have the special honour of doing so in this Chamber today, but I am a little proud that I am allowed to take the lead. Mr. Chairman. The irony will not have escaped you: in the week in which we fold in a one-and-a-half-metre society, the week in which the school buildings are reopened, the week in which this Chamber begins to hold its regular meetings in the Knight's Room, because we have more space here, of course, in that week we are discussing a bill which, in its name, has the words'more space'. This irony does not diminish when we consider that the main point of discussion is the risk of segregation, the emergence of so much distance between groups that it has unhealthy effects on society. That is why I am committed to starting my contribution by saying that we are pleased that we can discuss this bill here. We are pleased that we are also discussing not only direct crisis measures in corona times, but also more long-term issues, such as the development of our education system. I would also like to express my appreciation now for all those teachers who have reinvented themselves in recent months and have made every effort to give their students what they needed. I would also like to express my appreciation for all those parents who suddenly became teaching assistants, often in addition to their daily work or other responsibilities. That is indeed a great achievement. But, Mr President, on this point, I should like to express a heartfelt cry which does not relate to the legislative proposal as such, but which illustrates the concern we have with this bill and which is precisely related to segregation. Because despite all the efforts of schools and parents, the consequences of the corona crisis are not fairly divided. Children of highly educated and well-earning parents get more support at home and more facilities than, for example, parents' children who do not play the role of teaching assistant so easily. I can talk about it myself. When I was 8, we lived in Suriname. During a month's strike in education, our parents let us do schoolwork every day, with the result that at the end of that period I was so much further than my classmates that I could skip a year. That might have been nice for me, you can argue about that, but anyway, it's downright sad for all those classmates. Therefore, before I go into the concrete legislative proposal, I would like to urge the Minister to put this growing inequality high on his agenda. Maybe he can tell us something about how he's going to reverse this threatening segregation. I know he's thinking about summer schools, but who are they supposed to man? And isn't there also a need, for example, for additional tools and support for certain groups of students? Mr. Chairman. Before you hammer me off, I'm really focusing on the bill itself. My group welcomes the main thrust of this proposal. The argument may not be entirely convincing in all respects. The analysis of why current legislation would stand in the way of pluralism seems to be of a theoretical nature; the empirical basis is somewhat less strong. But the choice of no longer making the direction of schools decisive can certainly count on our support. Today's society is no longer primarily organized along philosophical lines. In fact, this also applies to education. The distinction between public and special education has become much less strong in recent decades, both in formal management and administrative structures as well as in identity and content. As far as we are concerned, this legislative proposal is in line with this development by no longer asking new schools to define themselves as a representative of a direction. In our view, it would be good if not only new schools, but all schools were more explicit than hitherto and distinguished from them. Then the philosophical labels will become a little less decisive. Wouldn't the space to discolour or decolorize be a natural way to make the school landscape more flexible, where the creation of new schools by definition also leads to more competition and possible capital destruction, if opening up new schools leads to the closure of others? I'd like a response from the Minister. However, as has already been said, our main concern is the risk of segregation, a risk for which the education inspection also regularly warns. Segregation today takes place less along ethnic or philosophical lines and more along socio-economic lines. Where you live is very important for which school you can go to. Anyone who wants all children to have as much equal opportunities as possible will have to do something about this gap. That is why our main question is how the government intends to prevent the gap between children from families with more opportunities and more privileges, and children from families with fewer opportunities and fewer privileges. This is a difficult question, as it turned out during the debate in the House of Representatives because one is not only dealing with specific schools that are being set up but also, and above all, with the other landscape as a whole, with the supply of schools in one region. This means that there is also a broader responsibility for the government, even if you want and must respect the freedom of foundation. Segregation, especially socio-economic segregation, can occur in all kinds of ways, meant and unintentionally. For example, a high parental contribution was a popular instrument, but now that we are stricter on it, there are still more possibilities. Suppose a school is founded that focuses on high-quality digitally supported forms of education. That sounds very nice didactic, but that is why parents are expected to buy an expensive computer for their children. Suppose a school is set up where inappropriate conditions are laid down for the registration of pupils. Or suppose an obvious elitist school is founded in a neighbourhood or village with a limited number of pupils, thus compromising the already existing, perhaps more inclusive school. It is certainly not all going to happen immediately, but it is possible, and we are now talking about a bill that might have to do something with it. The question is, therefore, what instruments are there to prevent, intended or unintentionally, segregatory policies and thus inequality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u4	I would like to ask Mr Van Ganzevoort a question. He says: the segregation is socio-economic, but not philosophical. Then how do you explain that the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism has warned against segregation in relation to a particular philosophy of life? Are you gonna look away from that? Or don't you think that's a priority you're pursuing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u5	We know the hobbies of our colleagues and also the themes they would like to discuss. I have stressed that today it is mainly on socio-economic lines. This does not mean that there is no other segregation at all, but Mr Van Kesteren also knows that the number of schools that are at all based on a specific philosophical view of a more pronounced nature is a few percent. That is a very small number of the total number of schools. I am not saying that this is not important, but I am saying that, as far as we are concerned, the essence of the matter is that socio-economic segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u6	I hear my concern is a hobby. I would like to ask Mr Van Ganzevoort, through the President, whether, although it is a small percentage, he is concerned that things may get bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u7	I don't have much to worry about it getting much bigger. I don't think there's a lot of clues to that either. I think that every school, whether you fill it out from a particular philosophical or cultural color or more generally, has a responsibility to prepare students for life in a pluralist society. That is already the case and, as far as I am concerned, it should be given more attention. We do so through citizenship requirements and so on. There are several ways you can do that. You can do this, for example, by organising a very specific school for a particular target group. You can also do it by organizing a very wide inclusive school. I have my preferences. I also note that our Constitution makes it possible to organise different individualities in it. I personally am not against that either. You can have all kinds of discussions about this, but the essence of this proposal is, as far as I am concerned, socio-economic. I am not taking away your concerns and I am not saying that they would not be relevant. I do say that this is a small part of the field we are talking about and that, as far as I am concerned, the major concerns at the moment are much more socio-economic in nature. Mr. Chairman. The key to dealing with this issue has been sought in the legal process in the view that can be presented by municipalities and may relate, inter alia, to locations where the risk of segregation is involved. In addition, according to Article 167a of the WPO, the local educational agenda should address the prevention of segregation. But the question is always whether that is enough. The question is whether the agreements that are made there are not too binding and whether it can be enforced. The recent State of Education (see page 72) shows that the local educational agenda is often not concrete enough, not measurable and not enforceable. Literally, therefore, the inspection writes: "The effectiveness of this policy remains unclear." So the question with this proposal is how to balance the importance of initiators against the wider importance of countering segregation. For my group, this leads to the question of the status of the municipality or an appointment within the local educational agenda. Who can pull the emergency brake if an initiative clearly does not serve the greater importance of countering segregation? We understand very well that the fundamental area of the freedom of foundation cannot be violated, but that area may be subject to conditions, as is the case, for example, in the case of the legality requirements, which we will still be discussing. That is why I ask the Minister, whom we know he attaches great importance to countering segregation, what possibilities there are for strengthening safeguards in this area. Is he willing to give extra weight to a negative view of the municipality, if it were there, for example, on the issue of segregation, and not to say "not to start a school now". Indeed, it becomes constitutionally complicated...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then the school can still be founded, but it can be adjusted when it has made segregation-promoting choices. If the existing schools and the new school to be founded work together with the municipality on the Local Educational Agenda, how can compliance with the agreements made there be maintained? What possibilities does the inspection or the municipality have to deal with non-compliance with these agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u8	I have a question for Mr Ganzevoort, particularly about the position of the municipalities. He emphasized very strongly that municipalities could almost influence the content of education, for example in terms of the adequacy requirements. But then you no longer fully fulfil the position of the municipality with regard to, for example, Article 23 and not with regard to the position that the inspection should have in it. Can Mr Ganzevoort clarify this a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u9	I do not think that Article 23 mentions either the inspection or the municipality. This is about its application and its implementation. But it is the principle that the government guarantees good education and that it is up to citizens to organise themselves in such a way that they can also organise education. I believe that this principle is maintained. Initiators may make a foundation proposal for a school. There are certain processes that you have to go through to get that honored. In the end, a decision must be taken on this. In that decision and in that process, on the one hand, there is a need for sound standards; soon we will be discussing how to adapt them. On the other hand, the municipality's view can play a role in this. That's already in the proposals. All I'm saying is this. Suppose the municipality finds that a proposal is being made on the issue of segregation, in respect of which it also has a task, according to the WPO, which will damage the anti-segregation policy, then the municipality can submit an opinion on it. The question is: what weight does that take? Can it in any way lead to an adjustment of the plan? I would say to Mr Schalk that it is a good balance between, on the one hand, the freedom of foundation, which we are talking about here, and, on the other hand, the prevention of social damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u10	I understand. I understand that Mr. Ganzevoort is trying to find that balance. But if he makes such a heavy claim to the municipal apparatus, so to speak, then that can also lead to large differences between different municipalities. One municipality will make certain parts more important than others. Of course, the government has a certain responsibility, but I think you have to be very careful to put it very heavily on the municipalities, especially with regard to the adequacy requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u11	Then Mr Schalk did not hear me. I am not talking about the validity requirements as such. This is one of the frameworks to be measured and to be met by a new school. In addition, the municipality submits an opinion. That's not something I'm thinking of right now; that's just happening. My question is this. The view is based, in particular, on the collective interest and on the legal responsibility of public authorities to counter segregation. Are we putting the municipalities in a position to take that legal responsibility? Or can the municipality say something, but doesn't that actually have an effect? That's where my concern lies. Suppose, at the point of segregation, a school is not flogged back with the words "you can't start." But you do say "this location works to promote segregation, but that location would be better," I'm just saying; the location is one of the themes "or "the way you organize it now, leads to segregation in such a way that the whole is not good according to the municipality." Well, then you have relevant conditions to set, don't you? In the end, it is still the minister who has to take a decision on this, not the municipality as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u12	We very much share the concerns expressed by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Mr Ganzevoort, about the possible increase in segregation as a result of the introduction of this bill, particularly along socio-economic divisions. Now Mr Ganzevoort asks a number of good questions about this to the Minister. I'm curious to hear the answer with him. Maybe he can speculate a little on the kind of response he would hope for. Maybe I should rephrase the question. Mr Ganzevoort asked who would be able to pull the emergency brake if there was a fear that the segregation would increase when applying for the creation of a new school. Does Mr Ganzevoort agree with me that the emergency braking procedure is currently not present in the legislative proposal before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u13	I am asking a number of questions, because I do believe that there are not enough guarantees in the treatment so far and in how this has finally been dealt with in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u14	I also ask because there was an amendment in the Lower House asking for a segregation check.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u16	That's been dissuaded by the Minister. Then the amendment did not make it. I am simply curious to see what conclusions GroenLinks might draw. I note that this particular point is currently not sufficiently secured in the law, despite all the appreciation for the positive aspects of the law; that observation is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u17	Yes. I think that statement is indeed correct. We cannot amend it. If we were allowed to do so, we would have had another debate here. The question is whether we can work with what is now ahead, because in the end this is the legislative proposal that lies ahead. It's not the ideal law you or I might have wanted, which we might want here. Nor do you chairman; perhaps you also had your own ideal law in mind. The question is whether this law is enough and whether it is going to work that way. The question is also whether we can fine-tune agreements within the margins laid down in the legislative text, so let me just say, so that we say: that would work or that would not work. That's the debate, I think. I will say quite frankly that we have not yet decided whether we are going to vote for or against this proposal. That will really depend on how the meeting with the minister goes. That's why we're about to get a response, an answer. It will depend on whether we can agree to the law before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u18	Mr Van Apeldoorn, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u19	I therefore understand that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is looking for space within the law and is wondering if it will be there. That's what we're wondering. Mr Ganzevoort is looking for it in the refinement or perhaps tightening up of the agreements that are already on paper or could be made within the law, but Mr Ganzevoort does not already have a particular model in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u20	I think I mentioned at least a very specific proposal. But I'm not done yet; there's more coming. I had the very concrete proposal that, if there is a negative view, it will give an extra weight to the final consideration that the Minister has to make. It seems to me to be a rather concrete proposal to see how, within the limits laid down by the law, you can or cannot move forward. I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks about that and whether that would be a passable road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u21	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u22	That was my first point. Then the second. If the existing school and the new school to be founded work together on a Local Educational Agenda, how can compliance with the agreements made there be maintained? What instruments does the inspection or the municipality have to deal with non-compliance with these agreements? Can the Minister promise that he will investigate how compliance with the LEA, as it is so fine, can be guaranteed and enforced, where necessary, through the supervisory framework of the inspection or through the responsibility of the municipality? Of course, this also applies to existing schools and new schools. But especially for the new schools, the moment of founding is the perfect time to see if a school enlarges or reduces segregation. Maybe we can also think of a regularly repeated theme research by the inspection. I'm just gonna run this by the Minister. But that must be a study whose results lead, where necessary, to interventions and, of course, to information from the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I may hammer a little bit at the point of segregation, but I also do so because we are already dealing with a trend. Geographical and socio-economic segregation are growing. Cultural segregation is also closely linked to this. New schools based on innovative educational concepts can make a very positive contribution, but only if they do so in a way that includes and does not exclude pupils from all kinds of grounds. Mutual competition, differences between schools and a certain degree of competition in terms of content may challenge to become as good as possible, but not when schools invest their money in recruitment campaigns rather than in content. In short, addressing segregation, in addition to the points I mentioned explicitly and on which I would like to receive commitments from the Minister, calls for a broad approach. The field of education cannot do this alone, because this affects income inequality, housing and so on. And then the inspection in the State of Education, on page 73, states that the municipalities cannot use resources for effective anti-segregation policies because of the financing structure. Does the Minister therefore take the inspection's signals that the anti-segregation policy in the Local Educational Agenda is not working properly so seriously that he and his colleagues responsible for social affairs and living, for example, will develop a comprehensive and comprehensive approach? Because we do understand that not everything can be regulated by this law and that a broader agenda is needed to reverse the tide. Mr. Chairman. Let me get this straight. Then Mr. Van Apeldoorn also has an image of what important weighing moments are for us. What is the Minister doing to counter the growing inequality caused by the corona crisis? Secondly, is he prepared to give extra weight to a negative view of segregation and, where necessary, to give new schools instructions that they should make their plan more inclusive? What is he going to do to make anti-segregation policy enforceable in the educational agenda? Can he give the inspection a heavier role in this? And is he prepared to initiate an integral approach to segregation and discuss it with the Chambers? As I said in the case of interruption, for my group, the safeguards provided in the House of Representatives are not yet sufficient to support the legislative proposal. A concrete and positive response to the questions I have raised here is necessary for us to support this proposal. We are therefore waiting for the answer with sorrow, because in the end we are not talking about more room for new schools, but more room for all children to develop as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Chairman, and thank you, messenger. Good education is the basis for a harmonious society in which everyone has an equal chance to realize her or his dreams. Good education must be accessible and available to all. That shouldn't depend on where you were born and who your parents are. The PvdA wants everyone's talent to develop optimally. This is not only good for the individual, but it benefits society as a whole. In theory, education should be the great equalizer, where opportunities depend on what you do and not who you are. But in practice, education has become more and more a competition, in which those with the biggest lead at the start also have the best chance to be winners. Education has become more and more unequal. The problem is that good education has become increasingly scarce. The reasons for this are frequent: our early selection in education, whereby children are already allocated to a certain level at a young age, the lack of teachers, which does not spread evenly across schools, the increase in the number of tutoring and test trainings, which often require high prices, the increase in private education and so on. To ensure that good education provides the basis for equal opportunities in our society, it is necessary to make a number of fundamental choices. According to the present bill, the government believes it will contribute to this by making it easier to establish schools based on the interest of parents and pupils. But which parents and students actually show such an interest? Isn't that the parents of students who can get everything out of the closet so that their children can develop? And what undesirable consequences does this have for the continuity of existing schools? Mr. Chairman. It is striking that the VO-Council was initially moderately positive about the present legislative proposal, but later voted against the legislative proposal. The key point of the VO Council is that the legislative proposal in itself fits in with social developments, but should not be at the expense of the cooperation needed to maintain educational supply in shrinking regions. However, this shrinkage is now a fact in almost all directions. This is why more and more schools are seeking cooperation to ensure the quality and continuity of education. On the other hand, new initiatives, as encouraged by the present legislative proposal, may pose a risk to cooperation between existing school authorities in the region, strengthen competition and thereby put the quality of overall education under pressure. Moreover, there is already more than enough education available in many places, according to the VO Council. First of all, I would like to look at these social developments. These offer us more and more options, from energy supplier to health insurance company, from parcel delivery provider to telephone provider, and so on. In the meantime, the choice is so huge that we are faced with choice stress. The excess of choices damages our psychological and emotional well-being. That is why the Scientific Council on Government Policy calls for particular attention to be paid to our limited capacity for action. And that leads to two questions for the Minister in my group. Which parents are waiting for more choices? And what's the profile of parents doing something with those choices? Then I come to the point of the VO Council about the need for cooperation rather than competition. This is in line with the government's call for higher education and universities to cooperate more and to compete less, as described in the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education and Research. Can the Minister explain why there is in the p.o. and to increase competition and, in particular, reduce it? This question is given extra urgency in the context of falling numbers of pupils. After all, they raise serious doubts about the government's expectation that the present bill will create about as many new schools as schools merge and close. Can we conclude from this that the Minister attaches little importance to the continuity and quality of existing schools? Mr. Chairman. According to the PvdA, school boards have to respond to the wishes of parents and pupils and offer room for this within the existing educational offer in the municipalities and the region, let there be no misunderstanding. In our opinion, the Regional Educational Facilities Plan (RPO) is the place to discuss whether the educational offer in the region is still sufficiently in line with the wishes of parents and pupils. However, the PvdA is not in favour of new initiatives aimed at a specific target group that undermines a wide range of offers and the societal task of schools to provide good education for each pupil. The Education Council is concerned about this development in its report entitled Advanced differentiation in the education system. While the school is the ideal place for young people to learn how to deal with differences, pupils with different social backgrounds are less and less likely to meet each other. As a result, education can contribute only limitedly to social cohesion in society. Does the Minister consider this segregation desirable? If not, what can we expect from him in this area? As emeritus professor of education law explained Paul Zoontjens in the Second Chamber, the present bill leads to more segregation in education. Education lawyers also pointed out at the hearing that higher-educated parents are likely to make more use of the new possibilities offered by the present legislative proposal. As a result, the new schools will become possible for the elite, increasing segregation. Does the Minister consider this desirable? If not, what will he do to stop this? Mr. Chairman. The recently published State of Education shows positive points and points of interest. The first category includes the performance of the central exam............................................................................................................................................................................... On the other hand, there are concerns about the lack of school leaders and teachers, the risk of inequality, the increase in the number of school leavers, the increase in the number of weak schools, falling reading skills and the growth of secondary special education. How does this bill relate to these concerns, I ask the Minister. The State of Education identifies the concerns about the quality of education. In 2019, the number of weak and inadequate schools will increase. There are still significant differences in the quality of schools and in the performance they manage to achieve with comparable apprenticeship populations. This leads my group to the following question to the Minister. Will the present legislative proposal reduce or increase these differences? Shrimp can also have an impact on the quality of education, as can be seen in the State of Education. A declining number of pupils leads to less income for the school, because the funding is based on the number of pupils. This may make it more difficult to continue to provide quality education if the establishment becomes too small. Does the Minister consider it desirable to have this effect on existing schools as a result of the present legislative proposal? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the bill contains a number of individual elements that raise questions with my group. For example, parental statements are used in the measurement of interest. However, these statements are completely non-binding. There is no formal-legal link between these declarations. It can't be, because children will often have started in another school by the time the new school opens. Then what's a parent's statement like that? My group is also surprised that parents of four-year-olds and 12-year-olds can express their interest, because these children are usually already in primary or secondary school. According to the government, these are parents who may be considering moving to a new school. How many first-class students from primary and secondary education actually switch to another school out of dissatisfaction, I ask the Minister. If we understand the calculations made in the further reply, it is sufficient to collect for a MAVO 225 signatures, for a HAVO 250 and for a VWO 200. So it's not that complicated to start this school community. But then 438 pupils will have to be enrolled in the third year, and only one third of school communities have achieved this in the last ten years, so I understand the calculation in response to our questions. Do they then have to close the doors? Again, two-thirds of the schools aren't gonna make it. Does the Minister consider that a responsible investment of community money? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA calls on the government to make fundamental choices that do contribute to good education that is accessible to all. The first is that we have to appreciate again what is of value. This means that we need to invest much more in our education. A second fundamental choice is that you have to dare to invest unequally for equal opportunities. For pupils who are more behind in their school career, education must be the main equalizer. The third fundamental choice is that all children should be given the opportunity to fully develop, by postponing the selection time for a specific school type. After all, the education system must never be an obstacle to the development of children. The fourth fundamental choice in the interest of equal opportunities is that we must get rid of the idea that education is a competition that you win by getting to the highest level, and which depends on your lead at the start. Education should be a place where everyone develops in their own way, without hierarchy. The fifth fundamental choice is to ban perverse incentives from education. For example, lists of success opportunities in secondary schools mean that they prefer to let students take over a year or let them flow down to a lower level. I see Mrs. Bikker wants to interrupt, but do you want me to finish my list? There are seven; that will please you. The sixth fundamental choice is that all students may participate, regardless of the thickness of their parents' wallet. This means that extra parental contributions for school trips, books and other activities should actually be made on a voluntary basis, without prejudice to children. Finally, as a seventh, we believe that lifelong learning should not stop after graduating, at the beginning of your career. Public authorities must therefore provide framework conditions and create real opportunities for lifelong learning. Can the Minister agree to these fundamental choices? And how does the present legislative proposal fit in with these fundamental choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u25	Colleague Sent takes the number seven. That is a beautiful number; that is a fullness. In doing so, it lays down a number of fundamental choices. But in her contribution to this, I have heard only the seven, or perhaps more, shadow sides that she sees in this bill. Now I wonder how Mr Sent reflects on the start of this whole direction-free planning. Mrs. Jorritsma was there, I saw. She signed a motion initiated by a former PvdA colleague of yours, Mr De Cloe, in the Lower House. There it was said: parents find too little a school that suits their preference. So once the Labour Party gave the start and was "how can we get parents to find a school that fits their deepest conviction to shape the good life towards their children?" It's a fundamental question, but now I'm missing that reflection. Would Mr Sent be willing to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u26	What I have raised in my speech is the point that Mr Ganzevoort has also raised, namely the concern that we are increasingly segregated in education, that there are booths and that there is pluralism between schools, but there is no pluralism within schools. My concern with the present legislative proposal is that this will encourage pluralism between schools, but not pluralism within schools, and that this will also raise concerns about equal opportunities for children and education as the ultimate equalizer. We now see that education is the ultimate inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u27	But then there is still the question of how parents find a connection with schools that fit that belief. I don't hear a reflection on that yet. I share your concern about segregation, particularly in the socio-economic field. But when we look at the existing situation, I wonder if this bill, whether you're in favour or against it, is the winning ticket in the lottery or the decisive key. Doesn't that mean a lot to housing rather than housing market, to a municipality that makes its choices very cleverly and doesn't open up the rent first in the Vinex neighbourhoods and fill a primary school and then open up the residential district, which goes to the next primary school? Isn't that where the essential questions are? Do you not actually fly around the beautiful freedom of direction that your colleague De Cloe, with the support of Mrs Jorritsma and others, once gave as a start? In addition, I would like to add that this bill once began in the previous cabinet period, so I am still looking forward to that reflection of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u28	I very much appreciate Mrs Bikker's input. I do not think that education can be separated from housing and other developments. We also often see that the weakest shoulders are faced with a build-up of concerns, such as ensuring a flexible contract, ensuring equal opportunities in education and ensuring an affordable home. So I do not think that this can be seen in isolation from the other developments. I have put forward a number of fundamental choices when we consider this bill as an education bill. That is the measure by which we assess this bill. This has to do with education as an equalizer, encountering each other in education and all sorts of worrying developments that we are now seeing. I don't see these worrying developments addressed in the present bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u29	Mrs. Bikker, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u30	But then I notice that the Labour Party is actually abandoning its commitment to a direction-free planning exercise that was its commitment from 2013 until recently and does not follow up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u31	I think we need to balance everything. We need to see education balanced with housing and opportunities in the labour market. We need to assess education along the basic choices I have outlined. I am concerned about unintended side effects of the present bill in existing schools and segregation between schools. We find that undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u32	Maybe I can join in on this. In my opinion, Mrs Sent and I share a great deal when it comes to care and segregation. Her seven points of the ideal didn't all land the same to me. I always have trouble with lists. With the ten commandments I always stumble somewhere halfway, but that aside. I think we're getting very close, but the question is whether this bill is about that. That is at least a matter of consideration for us. New schools can also be set up now. Whether we adopt this law or not, there are new schools now and then. The question is why. The question is whether the old system, in which the primary direction was decisive though you could always work a little around it. Doesn't that get you into all kinds of inappropriate situations? Schools can say: then we become a Catholic school, because there is not yet a Catholic school in this region; actually we do nothing with Catholicism, but that is our vehicle to enter. This is addressed here: the directional problem. What is addressed is the point that quality requirements need to be laid down in advance. I particularly share the question of segregation. That's why I'm saying you need to build in safeguards. But that's not the essence of this law, is it? If this law is not passed, what will be changed in Mrs Sent's concern about new schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u33	This bill adds room for segregation. That's my concern. In a letter we received yesterday, it says very nicely: this is not a bill for more room for new schools, but a bill for more room for segregation. Just in a context where we are increasingly concerned about the fact that students do not meet at school, that school is not an equalizer but an unequalizer, I find that point of segregation very heavy. An amendment has been adopted in the House of Representatives, but this does not provide sufficient guarantees for the appropriate addressing of this segregation, especially since you cannot build it in before starting a new school. If you find out afterwards, what are you doing with the poor students who are already at that school? I have also highlighted a number of other, individual concerns. Two thirds of the schools do not know how to attract the required number of pupils. And what is the value of such a parenting statement? If you're questioning parents of four-year-olds and 12-year-olds, what's such a signature worth? They take heavy care of us. I hope I made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u34	I understand those specific points. We'll get an answer to that in a minute. I don't have to defend it. I know the letter from which Mrs Sent quotes. That is a letter from VOS/ABB and the VOO, the Association of Public Education, which, in terms of segregation, do not mean the same as Mrs Sent. Mrs Sent talks about socio-economic segregation, which I have also stressed, but that is a different point from the one mentioned in the letter. So I think it's a little too easy to refer to that. I fully share the concern. I also asked the Minister to make commitments on this point. But my question is whether that is the essence of this law. I have not yet heard an answer from Mrs Sent. That is actually about the direction, in response to Mrs Bikker's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u35	As far as I'm concerned, the essence is education as equalizer. As far as I am concerned, the essence is the seven basic choices I would like to repeat, not as a list, but as a coherent speech, with Mr Ganzevoort. Then I do not see that this bill contributes on the basis of those seven basic choices and points I have raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u36	In my own story I also go into the history of this bill. I didn't know Mrs. Jorritsma was also involved in education. Together with D66, the Labour Party and GroenLinks, she tabled, 27 years ago, a motion which became the drafting of this bill. It has all taken a long time; that also has to do with Article 23. The piece was prepared by the previous cabinet. It's ahead now. And now, on the basis of this bill, I see you actually criticizing the entire education policy of this cabinet. My specific question is: was the Labour Party then, 27 years ago, and 4 years ago completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u37	The PvdA has always had the same goal in mind: education as the ultimate equalizer. You need to see which instruments you can best use for that. Which instruments may have unintended side effects? How does the context change? How do you relate to that context in achieving your goal? That's how my input needs to be read.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u38	I note that you are now moving away from the previous government, from the current policy and also from much of your own party's past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u39	Mrs Sent, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u40	I do not share that observation. I have explained clearly what our starting points were, what they have always been and what they are now. I have put the bill past that measuring bar and I have noted that there are very serious concerns about undesirable side effects of the present legislative proposal in the area of segregation. In this I am supported by the VO-Council, by the Education Council, by the VOC/ABB, which is indeed talking about segregation, also in the socio-economic sense. I therefore feel well supported in bringing this problem to the attention of the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u41	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u42	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The present bill fits in with the attempt to create more competition in education. In some areas, market forces have already given schools more room to put their own emphasis on their educational curriculum. For example, they can offer English-language education without the government immediately interfering. They can pay extra attention to top sports, music or beta subjects, without first going into conclave with the Ministry. However, this raises a new problem, because who determines the quality of education? That's the government. By encouraging free competition on the basis of its own quality criteria, it encourages schools to comply with its supervisory framework. This leads to the question of how much room for new schools the present bill actually offers. The answer to this rhetorical question remains to me, but I look forward with interest to his answers to the other questions from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. Then Mrs Adriaansens, on behalf of the VVD Group, has the floor for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the staff of the First Chamber for all the efforts they have made over the last few weeks, including during the recess, to make it possible, among other things, to be able to stand in this fantastic room and make a contribution. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. Today is about education. What an incredibly beautiful subject for a maiden speech. After all, what is more important than education, learning, for our progress and for our well-being? Education is the key to people's and society's development. Schools play a crucial role in this. The fact that a school is more than just education has made the corona crisis more than clear. Because the school provides contact with peers, for fun and for social bonding. Many of you will have had a look at your colleagues' home through video bubbles in the last few weeks. We therefore understand that many parents breathe relieved again now that the young children can gradually return to primary school. Mr. Chairman. Learning is in our genes. Genes that adapt over and over again, making us human beings. From the steppe step by step to this society, by learning from each other. By exchanging ideas. By trying new things. By making mistakes. And by constantly adapting us, as in some sense today. That is also what this law aims to do: that we adapt to the changing environment and that the provision of education is in line with that. Because learning is not static: it is a continuous process. When I look at myself, different experiences have brought me here. School, studies, different work environments, working with others and getting feedback. Through the legal profession to the advisory profession, then to take the step towards management and management Every step has its own learning experience. Today is another learning moment. Not everyone learns the same way, although we sometimes think so. Because everyone has their own path and also has their own learning style. When I look at the four learning styles of Kolb or at the eleven learning preferences of Manon Ruijters, I seem to have a creative learning style and I like to jump into the depths, preferably without bands. As my learning test shows, I also seem to like it. Mr President, today we are discussing a legislative proposal which is an important step in increasing the freedom of education: the legislative proposal Law more room for new schools. On the basis of the freedom of education, as laid down in Article 23 of the Constitution, parents and pupils have the right to education appropriate to their beliefs. Convictions can change over time. The aim of this law is therefore to make education provision more adaptable to changing demand in society. In view of what I said earlier on the importance of adapting, it is clear that my group supports this objective. This is what the government wants to achieve by releasing the concept of "direction" before starting a school. In this respect, we return to the situation of a century ago, to the system of the Lower Education Act of 1920. The Constitution does not require school planning to be based on the direction of schools. We wrote that demand in almost a century ago for reasons of austerity. If there was closer to a school, parents could not receive higher compensation for transport costs to a farther away school of the same direction. In 1933, the Crown ruled that direction should be understood as "special education, which is based on one of the directions revealed in the Dutch people in the spiritual field." In 1968, we made provision in secondary education for a special school to have a recognised direction in order to be eligible for funding. We did that in 1985 for primary education. Now we have exactly fifteen recognized directions. But society is changing. In addition to religion and philosophy, other factors increasingly play a role, such as proximity, quality and also educational concepts. In order to meet the changing wishes, the orientation requirement is now removed as a condition for funding. That is a good thing. A quality test is also introduced in advance. And it is made possible to close schools earlier, if there is poor education. These rules provide a framework for a varied and high-quality supply. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, my group supports this law. I would not dare to say otherwise, because the origins lie with my group chairman. My group supports this law, but we still have a few serious comments to make, and I am very happy to pass on them. First of all, I would like to address the risk of segregation, which has already been mentioned several times before, and the question of how we monitor the public objectives of education in the Dutch system. Next, I would like to address the question of how this legislative proposal relates to the policy of increasing administrative cooperation in the region in a wide range of areas. Thirdly, the question is whether certain rules, such as the maintenance of the foundation standard, will not be a brake on new initiatives in shrinking areas. Then I have some questions about the check we do on the quality of the board. The last point I would like to raise concerns the method used by the government to measure interest. Mr. Chairman. The downside of renewal is that this bill may encourage segregation. Research, among others by Sietske Waslander and Edith Hooge, shows that more choice for parents can lead to more segregation, including by ethnic background and educational level. That's undesirable. The government's response is that promoters should provide information on how to consult municipalities and other schools on combating segregation when applying for a new school. And it is also legally required that at least annual consultations be held between the municipality and the school authorities on, among other things, the prevention of segregation. However, my group doubts whether these rules effectively counteract segregation. An initiator can easily evade these provisions. You cannot be present at a meeting, whether there are but less participation. The VVD Group therefore believes that increasing segregation is a real risk and that, as the government proposes, we cannot wait five years until the evaluation results are available and then take action. Moreover, as my predecessors have pointed out here, it is unclear what these measures could be. Therefore, the VVD Group would like to hear from the Minister how, in the present and future, we can effectively respond to the challenge of segregation and perhaps even better said how we promote integration. Because innovation is only useful if there is an exchange between people. We also wonder how the Minister will involve the results of the research currently under way into the admission policy of schools in strengthening the approach to segregation. Mr. Chairman. The literature also highlights the risk of this legislative proposal distorting the balance between the public and private interests of education. I refer, among other things, to articles by Labaree from 2011, Lubienski from 2016 and Waslander from 2018. The proposal defines education in terms of private objectives. Parents' wishes for their children are the starting point. The question is how do we ensure that schools also contribute sufficiently to public objectives, such as social cohesion, social equality and democratic education. This has already been mentioned. The Education Council also points out that in the Dutch system of free choice and autonomy of schools there are few instruments to protect the public objectives of education, while education is an important link in society. I would therefore very much like to hear the Minister's response on this point. Mr. Chairman. The next point that my group is asking about is how this proposal relates to administrative cooperation in the region. In recent years, there has been a consistent policy by the government to allow schools and municipalities to work together, for example in the field of appropriate education and, for example, in the field of youth care. But new parties can avoid this. To this end, I have already indicated that sitting in a consultation does not guarantee active cooperation. My question to the Minister is therefore what will be done if a new school does not actively contribute to cooperation in the region. Mr. Chairman. My third point concerns the risk of insufficient innovation in shrinking areas. The bill maintains the foundation standard. The bill also regulates that initiators have to show a high interest in starting a school in an area with drop in pupils. This is intended to prevent the establishment of a school that does not have a real future because of drop in pupils. However, these rules may also lead to a lack of innovation, particularly in a shrinkage area. My group therefore wonders whether these requirements do not pose the risk of too little innovation in an area where the number of pupils is declining. Moreover, the risk of starting a new school in a shrinkage area is also increasing costs. More buildings need to be built and maintained. This could compromise other matters. I would also like to hear the Minister's view on the consequences of this possible increase in costs. Mr. Chairman. My next point concerns the quality test carried out prior to the financing decision. For example, the bill provides for board members of a new school to produce a statement on behaviour, a vog. The question is, however, what is the value of such a vog? A vog shall indicate that no criminal offences have been committed for a certain period of time. However, a vog does not guarantee that no criminal offences have been committed, because not all crime has been registered, let alone solved. Peter Kruize and Paul Gruter put in a 2016 study, which they conducted for the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre, comments on the lack of scientific research into the effectiveness of the vog. Moreover, if known offences have been committed, the Justis department of the JenV Ministry is investigating whether these offences constitute a risk to the work involved. It can therefore make a different assessment. A vog therefore offers no certainty that there have been no criminal offences committed by the directors, but above all, a vog does not offer any security for good governance, and that is what this is all about. In recent years, we have seen an increasing need to provide guarantees for good governance. That need is understandable, because good governance is often a prerequisite for good quality. In many sectors, including education, codes of good governance are used. The General Court states in a somewhat older report "Good governance in implementation" of 2008 that good governance should be considered on the basis of the so-called four p's. They're getting used to everything. This is about principles, people, processes and performance. There is reasonable agreement on the first p, the p of principles of good governance, which are enshrined in governance codes. But what we mean by the second p, what behavior and what attitude of persons is desired, is less clear. 'Cause when are you gonna do it right as a driver? The third point, the way in which the processes are to be carried out, is also divided. Because when is a dialogue and a responsibility that the organisation conducts, okay? Who's gonna decide that? The fourth p is about the expected performance. This is not always clear in civil society organisations such as schools, which pursue multiple objectives. The Court of Auditors states that until there is an answer to that question, and as far as I know, there is no clear answer to this question, nor can there be any judgment on the functioning and performance of a school. Mr. Chairman. There are many visions and theories about what good governance is. I refer here to the report of the General Court of Auditors, but I could have mentioned something else. In addition to harsh criteria, the driver's person is also stressed. My question to the Minister is how he involves those broader views on what good governance is in promoting good governance in primary and secondary education. Mr. Chairman. If a school board performs badly, we must prevent them from starting a school again. This is also regulated in the legislative proposal, which is a good thing. An earlier irrevocable indication could be a ground for not funding a school anymore. But then there must be great "administrative culpability," according to the Council of State. The government talks about situations where the school board is "charged." However, this is not the same as "administrative culpability." I would therefore like to hear from the Minister what he means by 'calculation' and how we are going to establish that. Mr. Chairman. The last point I am considering is the method of measuring interest. In order to avoid wasting time and money, in the event of a school starting which is not sufficiently interested, the new method must give a real assessment of the needs of parents and pupils. Two methods are mentioned in the legislative proposal: parental statements and market research. The Government states in the explanatory memorandum that these methods are equivalent. However, our group sees differences in methods. For example, market research is more costly than asking for parental statements, which could have an effect on its more attractive effect. On the other hand, the realisation of parental statements requires more effort from the initiators to recruit interested parties and to motivate them to give that statement. When registering interests, you may ask yourself whether it is possible at all to show reliable interest in a completely new pedagogical concept. That in turn raises the question of how many parent statements you actually need to have a reliable picture of the interest. My question to the Minister is whether there is a preference for either method from the point of view of reliability and whether he is involved in the evaluation. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, my group concludes that this law is a good step towards increasing the constitutional freedom of education. However, we have asked a number of serious questions, to which I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied public administration and Dutch law at Erasmus University Rotterdam. You then became a lawyer at AKD Prinsen Van Wijmen in Utrecht. At the same time, you graduated in insolvency law from the Grotius Academy. After eight years in the legal profession, you switched to the advisory practice and became senior advisor in the care at TwynstraGudde. You then continued to work for a long time as director of home care at Amant, as director of the Royal Netherlands Society for Physical Therapy and as chairman of the board of directors of the Stichting Beheer en Overzicht Triade. Since 2016 you are back at TwynstraGudde as chairman of the board of directors. You are also a member of the social assistance advisory committee of's Heeren Loo Zorggroep, member of the supervisory board of Amsta, member of the supervisory board of PGGM and member of the supervisory board of InsingerGilissen. Your membership of the First Chamber is your first political position. In your own words you like "the legal work of this Chamber, because you go into the depths and you just get to puzzle again." The fact that you are chairman of the Permanent Committee for Health, Welfare and Sport in the First Chamber is no surprise, given your experience. Speaking of sports, your commitment as chairman of the Larensche Mixed Hockey Club was awarded the Medal of Hockey by the Municipality of Laren in 2017. In the Gooi and Eemlander, you once said: "My ambition is to get people moving. Movement, I like that. But it's standard-free, so without determining that movement for anyone else. Learning something, achieving something, doing so much for one's self-esteem." This same conviction shows you for education, the subject we are discussing today. Finally, something personal. After my election as President last year, I was regularly confronted with my involvement in the creation of the Hermes House Band. I would like to mention here that you too, in your student days years later, sang in this now illustrious band. That created a "band" in English, and creates a bond. Once again, welcome. We look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Members can congratulate you. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations, and I would like to congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u46	I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague Adriaansen on her maiden speech. It was a beautiful speech in this beautiful hall. Mr. Chairman. Since yesterday the children are allowed to go back to elementary school for part of the week. More than ever, we are all aware of this, especially for parents, such as yours truly, who suddenly had to teach at home how crucial the profession of teacher is and how much respect, and more than that, our teachers and masters deserve for the vital work they do. With today's acute problems caused by the coronavirus, the structural problems facing education have temporarily disappeared into the background. It seems a long time ago that the schools closed their doors, not for a virus, but to strike with pain in the heart. And although this seems to be long-standing, there are, of course, still structural problems. Mr. Chairman. Today it's not about those problems, but I wanted to start by putting this law in context. This law has a long history, which goes back to the 1990s. That's a lot to remember today. With this cabinet, after a lot of discussion, it finally came to a legislative proposal. And of course, this law is also about something. In fact, its consequences can be quite profound. But what exactly is the problem that this law solves, I ask Minister? In any case, it is not the problems for which teachers have previously ceased, such as poor salaries, a screaming shortage of colleagues and a huge workload. These are problems which reduce the quality of our primary education. The fact that not every group now has the freedom to set up its own school on the basis of every conceivable conviction, if that is the Minister's view, seems to me to be an urgent problem to be solved. And aren't we creating new problems with this bill? With the Wet more room for new schools we increase the offer of even more flavours without this in any way contributing to better education for our children. Instead of investing in the now poor quality of education, you put money into new buildings. And this is when, as my group fears, every conceivable group that wishes to grant it to their own school is at great risk of increasing the equality of opportunity in primary and secondary education. Much has been said about this today. I shall come back to that in my speech, but perhaps first the question of what might be better with this new law. My group welcomes the law's improvement in the supervision of directors, as well as the review of the expected quality of education in new schools to be formed. But the main purpose of this law is, of course, to make it easier for groups of parents to set up their own school on the basis of any belief or educational concept. The aim is to further increase the freedom of education in our country and to ensure an even more pluralistic supply of schools. There is no doubt that some groups, such as parents, church societies and all kinds of sects who wish to establish their own special school but are still hampered by this, because they do not belong to one of the currently recognized directions. But does it also meet a broad societal need? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The positive thing about the idea behind this law is, of course, that if you do have freedom of education, you do not limit it to that sometimes arbitrary list of recognized directions and that you do not leave it to the government, in the person of the minister in charge, who is based on advice from the Education Council, to decide which direction does deserve recognition and which does not. For the argument that this is actually a strange figure, it is quite something to say, but one could also say that our entire freedom of education as laid down in Article 23 is somewhere quite a strange figure. At least it's unique in the world. Some are especially proud of that. Others, like my group, are still questioning it. The present legislative proposal extends the scope of Article 23 further, and the question is whether this is desirable and not merely leads to more fragmentation of education. The minister doesn't seem to see this risk, but he's not very convincing here. But I invite him to make another attempt. Again, my group can well follow the criticism of the idea of government-limited directions, but is it preferable that every bubble can actually get its own school? That has also been said many times on the other side. Recently, on the basis of the legislation still in force, the Education Council issued a negative opinion on an application for recognition of traditional Islamic education in addition to the already recognised directions of Orthodox and Liberal Islamic education. Reading the opinion, I would say that this has been done on good, reasonable grounds. But it will probably be possible for this school to be established on the basis of traditional Islamic education. Then what does the Minister think of these objections to recognition as suggested by the Education Council? They're not gonna be able to use it anymore? What kind of social benefit is there in general served by releasing direction? At least I don't think our kids are going to be able to make sense of it. But what my group fears in particular is that this law not only solves real problems in education but exacerbates existing problems. That is where our main concern lies, as with other groups, as we have heard today. I am, of course, talking about the problem of inequality of opportunity and segregation. The Minister will agree with us that, in addition to the workload and the shortage of teachers, these are indeed major real problems in education. Several organisations have pointed out that this law will increase segregation and inequality of opportunities. The VO Council fears an increase in competition, while we would be focusing on more cooperation. In this competition, schools will try to recruit pupils from particular groups. In fact, the Minister denies this problem, but if there is more room for new schools, will there be more schools competing with each other? I'd like a response from the Minister. And why isn't there a risk of greater segregation? Children of different cultural and religious backgrounds may go to separate schools even more often than they do now. But there is also a great chance that the gap between the low and high-skilled will increase. Parents who unite on the basis of a certain shared philosophy will more often or not come from better-situated environments and focus more on the upper than lower in the composition of the pupil population.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u48	Mr Van Apeldoorn knows that I am sensitive to these arguments. So I'm getting very close to that, but I don't quite understand one thing in his reasoning. He talks about the fact that, for example, certain philosophical groups are now easier to establish a school. I don't understand, because that's what's being released, isn't it? Isn't it just getting easier to start a school without having to unite on a philosophical level?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u49	Mr Ganzevoort is certainly right about the latter, but the other is still possible, not only on the basis of existing, recognised directions but also on the basis of other directions. If a certain group of a certain church society now feels the need to establish a school, it could now be hindered, either because that direction is not recognised or because an application for recognition is ultimately rejected by the minister. In this sense, therefore, there is more room for this and you could get an even more diverse offer, also in terms of schools founded on a philosophical basis. That's what I meant by that. I agree with Mr Ganzevoort that the risk of greater segregation along socio-economic divisions is the greater risk, but we certainly cannot exclude other risks. With more room for new schools, there will also be more room for all kinds of philosophically founded schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u50	The latter seems a bit of a sham discussion, if I may be honest. It is precisely that philosophical aspect that already existed. They already let you set up a school on that. It was sometimes not allowed, either because it was not sufficiently clear or because there were all kinds of quality discussions. The last one stays. In fact, it's being reinforced. Isn't that what you want? The distinction between recognized directions and non-approved directions is gradually becoming somewhat outdated in our society. If a certain group of people wants to start a school on the basis of content, then it shouldn't matter what that content is. In other words, I would like to invite Mr Van Apeldoorn to make his argument stronger by restricting it to those things that I really think are important. Embrace other aspects, for which more space is now created.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u51	Embrace them? I don't know. But I have just indicated, I say to Mr Ganzevoort, that I can quite well follow the reasoning that if you have freedom of education, you say: let us therefore release it in the sense that we do not allow the government to draw up a list of recognized directions and not let the minister limit it. There's a lot to be said for that. I note, however, that with this law we do not move towards a complete alignment. Existing privileges for existing recognised directions will continue to exist. In other parts of education legislation, these recognised directions still have a place, for example when it comes to student transport for denominations. Then I would say: then you must also be consistent. But that's another point. I have not made that point in my speech, but Mr Ganzevoort and I agree. Let us agree on the point that it is mainly about the increasing chance of segregation between the poor and the high-risk. And yet, I think you should be able to ask yourself what the social value of starting all kinds of schools is based on all kinds of imaginable beliefs. I question that, but that is not at the heart of my speech and of my objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u52	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u53	Thank you. The associations of public and publicly accessible education speak of an expected increase in locker schools for different target groups. This has already been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives. My question to the Minister is only: why is he so stubborn and why is he persistently denying that there is a potential problem in this? All attempts by the House of Representatives to improve the law on this important point, including for my group, have been wiped out by the fact that amendments are not recommended. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, segregation is a downside of Article 23, as has been seen by several bodies, including the education inspection. We must also bear in mind that special schools in the Netherlands may still refuse students on the basis of their direction. My group considers it fundamentally wrong that public funded schools are not freely accessible to every child. I know the Minister sees this differently, but perhaps he can explain it again, just as he is defending a law that makes it even easier to set up a special school, why he does not think this is a logical principle. 'Cause I really can't get my head around it. A general acceptance obligation, a modernisation of Article 23, which my party has long advocated, would thus be a huge step in the right direction, even though it would still mean that you would get undesirable bubble formation and competition. But apart from the discussion about the obligation of acceptance, which I know this minister does not want to run at the moment, the question is whether you are really prepared to accept a greater segregation as a price with the present extension of educational freedom. This minister seems willing to pay that price, because an amendment by my colleague Mr Kwint in the Lower House to include a segregation test in this law, a segregation check in advance, was not recommended by him. So our concerns and objections to this bill remain. And within the limits of the current legislative proposal, we do not see how the Minister can remove those objections, which does not prevent us, as always, from looking forward to his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u55	Mr President, allow me to make two comments before I start. First of all, congratulations to Mr Adriaansens. I've already met her as a valued colleague. In my humble opinion, as I have just said, she has just kept a thorough story in plenary. Congratulations! Second. In connection with our code of conduct, I report that in daily life I am a lawyer in administrative law at Mrs Adriaansen's old office and that I am also dealing with educational legislation. These are also issues relating to the establishment of a new school. But I have no interests other than the general interest in this legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. In 1847 the third Christian school of the Netherlands was founded in Nijkerkerveen. The initiator, Reverend Callenbach, wanted to advance the poor, underdeveloped people of the peat bog. And, not unimportantly, he also wanted to bring the veners into contact with the gospel. This was for the constitutional revision of 1848, which brought us freedom of education. It was therefore self-evident that permission should first be given by the municipal administration. That consent was granted by Nijkerk, too. And to the hundreds of children who then with Christian education "in the first and most necessary skills has been well-equipped," I too belong. The present proposal aims to increase the freedom of education. Even if you as initiators do not want to base your new school, other than in Nijkerkerveen, on a religion or philosophy, you can apply for funding. Think, for example, of an educational basis. In addition, it is possible that you have just been referred to in order to ensure within a religion that you choose your own way of thinking with your school. All in all, the CDA thinks this is a good bill. If you look at the legality, which Mr Adriaans started to talk about for a while, it will only improve and you will get closer to the Constitution with this proposal. Because now the law demands that your school be linked to a religion or belief, but that link is not reflected in the Constitution. That link is therefore deleted with this proposal. The viability of the new school must, of course, always be demonstrated. The school in Nijkerkerveen was then financed by a number of very socially motivated notaries from all over the country. But the city council used the criterion of whether it was going to give permission for that school if there was sufficient need for it. The proposal now before us assumes that parental interest will be measured. The growth or shrinkage of the population in the food area is also taken into account. My group welcomes the introduction of a quality test in advance. Under the current law, you don't get quality tests until the school's open. Article 23 allows the government to interfere with the quality of education at a special school. In fact, in Article 23 you can also see the obligation of the government to interfere with the quality. For this reason, the CDA believes that, if abuses are brought to light at a special school, it is sometimes too easy to call for Article 23 to be abolished. No, apparently there is something wrong with the government's involvement in the quality of education. Let me say first of all that you can say that in any case the school administrators do not deal responsibly with the freedom of education. At present, the government still does not guarantee the quality of education. This is mainly about the need for citizenship education. This citizenship education needs a boost. In our own room, we debated the report of the Remkes State Commission in February. According to the State Commission, education should increase the democratic knowledge and skills of children and young people in order to become good citizens. Then what's a "good citizen"? People mean someone who at least stands up for himself and someone who is not a burden to others and does not commit fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u56	I understand what you're saying. You also say that Article 23 on freedom of direction is too quickly brought into discussions. But you can see that in the debate on citizenship education that is so necessary, it is very soon again about freedom of establishment and not about freedom of direction. How's the CDA looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u57	Yes, I understand that, and in the course of my speech, I will go into that distinction later. 'Cause that's a tension field. I don't think we can deny that. What is the government still about and where do you have your own interpretation? Where can you, as a board, choose how to organise education? I ask questions about this to the Minister, but the fact is that we all, at least the government now, feel that we need to do more with it. This is also confirmed by the bill that the Minister has now brought before the Lower House, namely the legislative proposal tightening up citizenship assignment education. We can demand more of schools to be involved in making their pupils good citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u58	You refer to the next part of your speech, so I'll wait and see. You also refer to the government, but I asked what the CDA thinks. Because I also hear many CDA politicians pointing to freedom of establishment. You are right to say that there is a tension between the direction and the decor. What does that mean to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u59	Let me give a concrete answer to the question. You have heard me say that the demands that are currently being made for this education, which obliges the school to make good citizens of the pupils, are now too little prescribed by law. We can all have our colleagues across the street... Can we say that from this Knight's Room, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u60	Scoot across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u61	"Schuin across the street"... don't walk in front of your feet. Let me put it this way: the CDA Group in the First Chamber has warm feelings about that bill. This is also in line with the Commission's proposal, or is there perhaps the reason why I should be asking the Minister a specific question about this later? Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u62	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u63	Mr. Chairman. I have already referred to the bill brought before the House of Representatives by the Minister. We are not talking about this today, but that proposal aims to strengthen the legal requirements in terms of citizenship education. Later on you will have the impact in key goals and final terms for citizenship. Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to the proposal we are now discussing, more room for new schools. Then the following question is important: can it be assured, even after the entry into force of this law, that a new school will contribute enough to make its pupils good citizens? The Minister has put it nicely that it is "need to know the rules of the game of society in order to live together in a constructive and peaceful way." Is the fact that the application for a new school will be tested in the light of the need for citizenship education really going to increase the democratic knowledge and skills of pupils at that school? That is my first question to the Minister. On the other hand, and here I come to what Mr Pijman said, my group is concerned about how the inspection deals with freedom of religion, equality, freedom of expression and freedom of education. That is my second and last question to the Minister. I said it needed an extra boost for citizenship education. However, it must be made clear that the inspection is reluctant to make its assessment when it comes to the precise implementation. In other words, the freedom of parents to set up their own schools must not be undermined by a government that dictates the way in which a school helps to make pupils good citizens. How does the Minister view this? So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u64	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I call Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations, Mrs. Adriaans, on your maiden speech. Guarding public targets appealed to me. I would also like to say that you are a good chairman of the committee. Mr. Chairman. In addition to freedom of education, Article 23 of the Constitution also includes the responsibility of the government to ensure the quality of education. On the basis of the same article, everyone is free to set up a school and set it up according to their own convictions. This leads to a plethora of new education systems, and sometimes even to irresponsible elitist educational experiments, which can lead to learning disadvantages and backward development. However, often this is done by highly educated and financially capable parents, who can update basic skills such as reading, counting and language on time. Mr. Chairman. To prevent schools from starting with insufficient quality, the bill introduces a quality test for new schools. The reasons for the legislative proposal show that, in view of the social importance of education, it is being assessed whether citizenship in particular plays a prominent role. The aim of this new legislative proposal is therefore a future-proof, high-quality and varied educational offer, which is in line with the wishes of parents and pupils. Mr. Chairman. However, the PVV Group believes that this legislative proposal does not cover the substantive frameworks aimed at the foundations of our democratic rule of law. For example, the application for a new school should contain only a description of the monitoring and improvement of the quality of education and how the rules for competent teachers, supporters and managers are implemented. New schools should promote integration in the educational and educational fields and pay attention to good citizenship and to values of the democratic rule of law. A multiform education system aimed at integration. The Education Inspectorate then ensures that this is not contrary to the law. Mr. Chairman. A school that may act in violation of the law and an enforcement that leaves something to be desired in practice, the PVV are concerned. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. How can Islamic schools, for example, where imams teach or are on the school board, provide social, psychological and physical security for pupils and citizenship which is not contrary to Dutch law? How is it ensured that education at these schools actually contributes to promoting integration into Dutch society and not leads to segregation, which we often see? Segregation is seen as a broad social problem and is also recognised by government and society as such. I would like to have a response to that, as well as an answer to both questions. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the PVV Group wants to prevent a school pursuing an ideological direction geared to Islam from preferring Sharia rather than our democratic rule of law. The aim of the quality test in the law is to make the new schools necessary, relevant, objective and proportionate. That is why we believe that this quality toe will have to be made much more prominent and concrete in advance. The six robust requirements of this test consist of educational support facilities, alignment at the level of the pupil, organisation of teaching time, the content of education, citizenship education, which is very important, and finally the design of governance. They should prevent pupils from receiving low-quality education and from taking up issues which are not only contrary to the law, but which also generally have a negative impact on those pupils. Mr. Chairman. So far, hardly any sanctions have been imposed against directors, supervisors or legal entities known to have spoken verbally and/or in writing and have been shown to be intolerant to our democratic rule of law. These are directors and/or internal supervisors who are far from objective or independent. It appears to be officials who take the lead in Islamization. Predecessors in the missionary work of Islam, I'll say. Drivers, supervisors and teachers can perfectly fit into the picture of an Islamic school in terms of philosophy and ideology on the one hand, but on the other hand these people can indeed be seen as a risk, a serious risk to society. Of course, it is better for such schools to be judged in the front and that then foundation becomes impossible, but unfortunately that is not the case. This leads to the following questions to the Minister. Are conditions also imposed on such officials or are background checks carried out on the trading and walking of directors, internal supervisors and teachers of Islamic schools? Is research also being carried out on the risks to society, given the purpose of the application? My fifth question is: what sanctions will be applied or actually implemented if it is found that a school does not comply with its legal obligations? I would like to hear a response and an answer to these questions. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u66	I am very curious whether Mr Van Kesteren means that these questions should apply to all schools, so that all schools comply with legal rules, that directors are doing well and that they support the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u67	Sure. I think that's what's happening, too. But let me come back to the socio-economic segregation, which we had a little debate on at the beginning. I am very concerned about the philosophical consequences of certain directions leading to segregation. You are playing down that problem, but I think that problem is very serious and I want to pay attention to it. That is why I have also focused very specifically on this problem. In terms of educational content, it does indeed have to do with the belief of life, because those content of the lesson, which has also been shown, are often based on that philosophy of life. I think that's being pushed too far. This is not good for integration into society, which we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u68	I asked because, when we talk about the values of our democratic rule of law, we are talking about Article 1 of our Constitution and so on. Then it's about equivalence and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u69	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u70	I am concerned about all kinds of signals that are happening in all kinds of communities, for example when it comes to gender equality, sexual diversity and so on. I am concerned about what happens in different groups, including certain religious groups. I'd like to go along with that. But when it comes to quality, legal status, citizenship and so on, I find it extremely risky to apply a general reasoning and a general question unilaterally to one group. Mr Van Kesteren asks: does the Minister want to take action when an imam comes on board? Why? The fact that someone is imam is irrelevant to the question of whether he will be a good driver. I'm not in favour of it and I'm not against it. But if you're talking about that driver, you have to look at the administrative qualities and look at the state of law. Picking out one dimension, namely the Islamic content, is contrary to those basic constitutional principles that Mr Van Kesteren claims to stand up for. So I would really like to call on him to see it, if that's what he means here, when it comes to quality, citizenship and so on, in width, because then we'll get on with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u71	Administrative quality also has to do with the following. If one is so obsessed with a certain belief in life and is carrying it out in a government and carrying out educational content, I think you should be aware of that. Don't look away from that. That is the point I would like to raise with the Minister. I have also asked a number of questions about this, for example whether they are being investigated. That doesn't mean, as you're suggesting, that all drivers are shaved in the same way. Absolutely not. But it happens. I would like to draw attention to this and ask the Minister whether further research is being carried out so that you can say at the front: no, this is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u72	Mr. Ganzevoort, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u73	I welcome what Mr Van Kesteren said, because I think that is exactly the point. When people are obsessed with a particular philosophy of life, there is a great risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u75	The obsession of the PVV, to which Mr Van Kesteren refers, with Islam, is, in my opinion, a prime issue that we should be concerned about, because it puts pressure on the rule of law and good justice in society. That is my objection to the way in which Mr Van Kesteren narrows the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u76	I can only answer that that obsession is absolutely not there. It's just a very important point. Then I can also reflect GroenLinks' obsession with the climate. That's how we all have our spearheads. Ten years ago I joined the Freedom Party, with "freedom" in its name, because freedom is very important to me. I have always felt that the Islamisation of our society is a great risk to our freedom, to our security, but also to our future. That is why I feel very good about the Freedom Party, which constantly draws attention to it, does not run away from it and does not look away from it, but clearly brings it to the attention of the House again and again. I know it is a taboo among many political groups, but I would like to say that, just as you are concerned about the climate, we are concerned about the Islamisation of our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u77	I call on both speakers to return to the bill. Mr. Ganzevoort, your fourth round.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u78	I just want to say that the climate is not a citizen and that it is therefore a different category from what we were talking about in Article 1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u79	I would like to correct that: I am not talking about citizens, but about a belief in life and a vision, an ideology. Where GroenLinks has the climate, we are very concerned about the Islamisation of our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u80	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u81	It may be a bit of a broadening of the theme. Mr Van Kesteren has shared a number of concerns with us and asked a number of questions. Maybe I'll take it a little bit wider than just Article 23, because there are a lot of freedoms that we are extremely happy with and proud of. In fact, there is always that freedom, subject to everyone's responsibility under the law. That's the terminology. Does Mr Van Kesteren think that the law which is before us is particularly damaging to the so-called 'except for everyone's responsibility under the law'? That is, in fact, a crucial point, because otherwise the reasoning he has put up so far could actually be put in the broadest sense with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u82	The great concern we have is that Islamic education expands as an oil stain in our society. Then there's no turning back. It is a constitutional freedom to establish such a school. I agree. We have that freedom too, thank God. But on the other hand, you also have the constitutional freedom of society to guard our freedom and democracy. This is also a constitutional freedom that we must maintain so that we can oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u83	Once, but that is why my question was correct: does Mr Van Kesteren think that "except for everyone's responsibility under the law" is affected by the law that is now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u84	Well, I think it's gonna be easier to start Islamic schools. When parents in a neighborhood known for being segregated say to each other that they want an Islamic school, I do think there is a wrong development going on. That should be avoided, also in order to protect the students of those schools from that development. For they are completely indoctrinated about a society in which one all-encompassing figure determines everything, in which it is made clear how girls and boys should relate to each other, in which there is no room for people who think otherwise or are different. That's pumped all the way in, even in lesson content. That can be subtle but also very open. Then I think that as a society, you have a duty to do something with it. That is what I am advocating here, including the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u85	Mr Schalk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u86	Yes, Mr. Chairman, and then, of course, I'll finish. The problem that Mr Van Kesteren is now raising is not the result of this law. The group he designates could also go under a direction to establish a new school, whereas it is actually about more space and when everyone still has to abide by the law, whatever direction or whatever school it becomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u87	Yeah, that's right. There is a law, and schools have to abide by it. In practice, however, it appears that there is a difficult task to do against schools that do not comply with that law. That is my problem, and that is why I ask the Minister to maintain these sanctions. In my opinion, that is a good thing; we have seen that in the last few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u88	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u89	The chair looks nice again, Chairman, after this cleaning. Let me also make two comments to Mr Doornhof. Of course also the congratulations for my colleague Adriaansens on her maiden speech. I look forward to exchanges of views in all kinds of places. And with regard to our positions, which we may also have to highlight here, I say that I am chairman of the Wartburg College Supervisory Board. That's a college of schools in Rotterdam and Dordrecht. I do not yet see the connection with today, but let me just say it just in case. Mr. Chairman. There was actually no better time to deal with this bill: just a day after primary schools and special education were allowed to reopen the doors after they were closed for many weeks. Of course, we look forward to continuing education being able to take place physically again, all of course under strict conditions. First of all, I would like to express my deep admiration and respect for the way in which many schools have implemented distance education, and in particular for the way in which parents and children have picked it up. Of course, we have also been concerned about children who were having a hard time, perhaps because of the home situation, because of lack of guidance or simply because their safe place with the teacher, the master, the teacher or the mentor fell away. Hopefully, education may gradually grow back, through the new normal, into a real normal. Mr. Chairman. It's possible. More than 100 years after the freedom of education arose, the bill now before us provides extra space for the foundation of new schools. This means that Article 23 of the Constitution is given a broader interpretation than was the case for many years, but it is actually the interpretation that is more in line with what was originally intended, so compliments for that. The big question is, of course, what is the reason for this. It is to be feared that, among other things, the increasing secularisation is at the root of this. Apparently there is a need for new schools, but no longer under the famous flag of religion or belief. However, it seems to be mainly a part of a larger whole. A few years ago, the law on future educational provision came into force. The cooperation school has been made possible. Now, in addition to religion and philosophy, attention is focused on proximity, quality and educational concept. Is the conclusion that this law is part of a build-up of opportunities to offer a wider range of education and, if so, have the above mentioned laws functioned? Besides, one day the commitment was made that there would be a return to this Chamber to how many schools actually used the possibility of the cooperation school. Can the Minister tell us what's going on with that? Anyway, the Law provides more space for new schools. Of course, under certain conditions, where there are good questions to ask. For example, the legislative proposal talks about the quality of citizenship education and the basic values of the rule of law. Of course, the public authorities should not interfere with the content of education in this area. This is, of course, a matter for the schools, as I have just said, except for everyone's responsibility under the law. That well-known expression should not become a hollow phrase, but the law should not overrule those responsibilities either. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats notes that the aim of the quality test is not to intervene in the content of education, but to ensure that it is considered whether specific learning objectives, their elaboration and accountability should be covered in the same way as the core objectives. Is this finding correct? In the future legislative proposal on citizenship education, the basic values of the democratic rule of law are even more explicitly addressed, I ask the Minister. The documents surrounding the legislative proposal now before us state that it is necessary to prevent new schools from violating the basic values of the democratic rule of law. The explanatory statement lists a list: human dignity as an overarching principle, then freedom, equality, solidarity, tolerance and responsibility. Where are, or are, these basic values anchored? How can an early quality test assess whether these basic values would be violated, yes then no? After all, paper is patient. It is striking that six other elements of quality are added, after which several amendments have added additional elements in the House of Representatives. In addition, the municipality in which the school is founded may ask questions about the adequacy requirements, which are not directly the competence of that municipality, such as the establishment of the teaching time, the alignment of education at the level of pupils, the citizenship education and the content of education. How is it now ensured that the municipality complies with its powers in these areas? Mr. Chairman. As regards the measurement of interest for a new school to be set up, the starting point is the parent's statement. For exceptions, market research is sufficient. As regards that market investigation in exceptional situations, the Government states in the reply that this method is also permitted when relying on the constitutional guarantee function for a public school. However, a regular application should be accompanied by parental statements. Has this made market research a means of creating a second option for the application in the event of a failed application and, if so, is that the right means? Also, the possibility that commercial parties will take up the space for new schools through market research, coupled with parental statements, remains a concern for my group. After all, parental statements are soft, because parents do not commit to their parental statements. How do you prevent school from finally starting without sufficient prospects for the future in terms of the number of pupils? Parents with children between 2 years and 4 years of age are considered, because parents of children of this age would be more concerned with questions about the choice of school. This reasoning can be understood in itself, but if parents have more children, even under 2 years of age, are they relevant data? Wouldn't it be helpful to have that weighed up somehow? After all, it is real to assume that children from the same family will go to the same school. Mr President, I should like to say a few words about this. The concept of "direction" in the sense of "approved direction" remains fully in force in the legislation, with only the foundation requirement opening up new opportunities to meet parents' wishes, such as on the basis of educational and educational elements. This means that the present law offers new opportunities to meet parents' wishes, such as those educational and educational elements. In itself, therefore, this is not a restriction, but a wider application of Article 23 of the Constitution, of which it is recognised. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Government's response to the questions that have yet to be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Pijman, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Adriaansens: heartfelt. Thank you, too, for your excellent speech in terms of substance. We look forward to further debates and cooperation. As soon as the schools are open again, at least in part, we are holding this debate here on the establishment of new schools. We are well aware that this is not the problem of education at the moment. But, of course, we are glad that we can have this debate here too, because the proposal has been there for some time. In the present bill, apart from the classical directions, the denominations, there is more room for parents to establish new schools. They are, after all, the carriers of freedom of education. That's how it's classically decorated. If this proposal is adopted, it will no longer be a calculation of supposed interest in starting a school, but will measure the real interest in setting up a new school. This can be done in two ways: market research or parental statements. In addition, the expected quality of education will be a measure of a positive financing of the proposal to be submitted. The latter considers D66 to be a great improvement. After all, so far, educational quality played no part in deciding whether or not a school was included in the system and funding. The proposal is actually very simple and simple. It allows parents, even within a direction, to establish a school on the basis of a desired educational or didactic establishment. The concept of direction therefore no longer plays a direct role in the establishment of new schools. The distinction remains public and special, but that is what it is. Moreover, the concept of direction remains unchanged in the position of existing schools. To get it done, we needed 27 years. It was in 1993 that the Chamber adopted a motion from the Labour Party, the VVD, D66 and GroenLinks.................................................................................................................................................................................... But that's when it started. A committee was set up, there were conferences, opinions were given, opinions were asked to the Education Council, policy notes were written, debates were held, proposals were made, which were withdrawn and adapted after criticism by the Council of State on Article 23 of the Treaty in order to ultimately result in this proposal. I think it will reach the finish line, and that is a great compliment in this context. Mr. Chairman. Those who see this history see the cramp in which the Netherlands sits when it comes to Article 23. Whoever oversees the discussion finds that this is mainly about the tension that exists in the event of interruption, I just said something about the freedom of direction, the denomination, and the freedom of establishment. Article 23 is the longest article of our Constitution. It's been around for over 100 years, and it's brought us a lot in the past. But is it still future-proof in this form? We ask ourselves that. And we're not alone. In 2019 Klaas Dijkhoff of the VVD reopened the discussion. He felt that Article 23 should be adapted if the freedom of education makes it possible to set up salafistic schools in the Netherlands. He wanted to adapt the article or subordinate it to Article 1 of the Constitution. The discussion blew up for a while, but also soon stunned. Because adapting the Constitution is a long-term issue and there seems to be very little consensus on how to modernise Article 23. D66 would like to have that discussion. With the recognition of the achievements of Article 23, we must also bear in mind the shortcomings. The starting point for D66 is that children with different backgrounds in a pluralistic society like ours, meet at school. It reduces the amount of storage. It reduces polarization. It reduces odds. In addition to monitoring the quality of education, acceptance obligations and access to education are at the top of our agenda when it comes to adapting Article 23. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State welcomes the proposal before us, but it is also very brief. You're surprised when you look at history. It says: "According to the Constitution, Article 23 does not require the use of the concept of "direction" in the establishment of schools." Well, it took us 30 years! Which directions and denominations do we now know in this country? Public, Catholic, Protestant-Christian, General Christian, Evangelical, Reformorical, Reformed, Reformed-Liberated, Interconfessional, Hindu, Islamic, Jewish, Humanist, General Special and Very Neutral. In there you have all kinds of things. Within the Islamic education just mentioned, for example, you have liberal, orthodox and Salafist education. It's all possible. And then we have the decorating principles in the directions: dalton, jenaplan, montessori and everyone wise, to name but a few. The fragmentation has become large and greater. On the basis of the establishment of our rule of law, we may have reservations about setting up a Salafist school, for example, or applying the principle of equality to Orthodox Christian schools, and the debate on this is understandable, but we cannot prevent it if we are not prepared to adapt or subordinate Article 23 to Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Article 23 (4) instructs the public authorities, through the municipality, to ensure that there is sufficient public access to primary education. I asked the Minister in the preliminary report how he is now assessing this. To be honest, I had a rather unsatisfactory answer to that. "There has been around 70% of special education and 30% of public education for a long time, and that will not be changed by this proposal," the government expects. But my question was how the government, through the municipalities, implements this paragraph 4 of Article 23. For you should have expected.. others also said............................................................................................................................................................................. But that's not the case, the Minister says. But what view does the government have on this? And with what instruments does the Cabinet, the Minister, review paragraph 4 of Article 23? In other words, when is there not enough public education and does the government fail to enforce and implement Article 23 (4)? I'd like a response. And now, with this draft law on the foundation of new schools, it would be obvious that, for example in a new district, you start with generally accessible education, public or particularly neutral. I would also like to have a reaction to that. In the discussions around Article 23, the cabinet is now trying to steer directions that could be at odds with the Dutch rule of law by setting up citizenship education. But whoever follows the debate on this, in the Lower House and also in society, it is a difficult discussion. Many directions call again for freedom of establishment. When does the Minister expect him to come forward with a concrete proposal? Mr. Chairman. The question now raised by this proposal, which has already been asked by many, is whether this proposal does not promote segregation. In the preliminary report, the Minister writes in response to my questions that segregation is of course of great concern to the government. The Minister believes that it is mainly about the housing segregation in our country and also about the freedom of choice that parents have, in addition to possibly the admission policy. But the Minister says that he actually has too little insight into this and that he has therefore opened an investigation into it. It has already been mentioned, I think, by Mrs Adriaans, that, for example, Sietske Waslander writes in an investigation: at least this proposal can promote segregation. Segregation, according to D66, always has different causes. But does the Minister share the view of our group that public-funded schools should always be accessible to everyone? Does the Minister also intend to come forward with proposals to counter segregation in this cabinet period? Moreover, investment in equal opportunities could also be applied unevenly. That has been mentioned earlier, I believe, by Mrs Sent. If you have unequal opportunities, more investment will have to be made in that category to eliminate segregation. Then there's an in-depth question. What is the Minister doing now that the corona crisis has caused us to see some of the children getting behind? What can we do about it? I also found the Minister's initiatives to provide them with laptops to be extremely commendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u92	I listened with interest to Mr. Pijlman's speech. I endorse his desire to keep schools pluralist and accessible. But now it is true that proposals from the Lower House to make these schools generally accessible have not been accepted. I am therefore curious to see how Mr Pijlman is assessing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u93	You're right about that. That proposal has been mentioned before and has been rejected. I therefore await the Minister's response. I'll see what initiatives he comes up with. He will undoubtedly also comment on why this proposal was rejected in the House of Representatives. By the way, the creation of new schools does pay attention to segregation, but not as in that rejected proposal; you are right to do so. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u94	Can Mr Arrowman indicate what he expects from the Minister in terms of accessibility? What answer is he satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u95	I just said something about that. We believe that schools funded by the public authorities should in principle be generally accessible. In my ideal image you may know that schools are generally accessible to everyone. That does not mean that you would not be able to study religion or education. Yes, that's part of our culture. And yes, I would like to offer space to any group that would like to add something to that. But the system we have makes that distinction very big. That is why I refer to Article 23. Well, that's a tricky trade-off for us, isn't it? On the one hand, this proposal gives parents more freedom of choice. On the other hand, it also ensures that the creation of new schools is subject to real quality requirements. That is what we consider to be an enormous step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u96	Your third question, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u97	Yeah, my third and last. Can I conclude from this that if this accessibility does not improve, the bill cannot count on the support of Mr Pijlman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u98	I don't understand you now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u99	How hard the point of accessibility weighs, I ask Mr Pijlman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u100	General accessibility I weigh very heavily. That is why I also refer to Article 23, which is why I think it is very important for the government to put forward Article 23 (4). You never really hear about that. That's actually very unusual. Our education is 70% special and 30% public. When do we say we don't understand that anymore? At the same time, I understand that the cabinet has said: let us examine that now. Because there is a lot of talk that special schools are not generally accessible, but are they? I have community schools in my neighborhood that are public, but also community schools that are Christian. Both are generally accessible. So there is. Mr. Chairman. In preparation for this plenary debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u101	I see two more interrupts, Mr. Arrowman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u102	Ah, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u103	Given the time, I'd like to ask you both to ask one short question, if that's okay. We are running into a few committee meetings. Mr. Van Apeldoorn, one quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u104	I would like to continue with Mr Sent's question. I understand that Mr Pijlman says that the general accessibility of schools is a very important point for us, and that is why we are calling for the modernisation of Article 23 of the Treaty on European Union. So that has no further consequences for him in the weighting of this bill? In other words, it is actually a more philosophical discussion about Article 23 and it does not touch what is before it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u105	In a way, you're right, because I'm looking beyond this bill. I think that this bill, which no longer makes the distinction between all these directions and only maintains 'public' and'special', is progress. I also think it is a step forward that the quality requirements for setting up new schools will apply, because that is not the case so far. I think that's a big step forward. And that is what we consider to be the opposite of what is going on, and I am particularly referring to Waslander's report, namely that this proposal could also lead to further fragmentation. The Minister says in his preliminary report: well, I don't see that. So I'd like to hear the cabinet about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u106	I have a question following on from Mr Van Apeldoorn's question on those accessibility questions from Mr Pijlman. At the moment when Mr Pijlman would indeed argue here that these are crucial to him for this law and that this would be endorsed by the Minister, we should, at least as far as my group is concerned, start a new debate. That is, in fact, a completely different situation to what this legislative proposal is about. Is this finding correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u107	Yeah, that's right. I'm just saying how this bill nuances directions, I think it's positive. I also think it is positive that there will be quality standards for new schools. That's a good thing. That is what I consider to be in relation to the fact that this can also lead to further fragmentation. I'm referring to Sietske Waslander's article. I believe that the discussion on Article 23 is not enough. Do we want to go on like this for another hundred years, while society has changed so radically and, in my opinion, the Constitution must adapt to that? Don't we even want to see that discussion for once? I understand that's a very difficult discussion for you. Christian parties don't really want that discussion either, but I also think that the SGP sees that we also see disadvantages of Article 23 in our pluralistic society. Mr President, I see from the time report that I have two minutes and 31 seconds left. In preparing for the plenary debate, many questions have been asked by several parties about the implementing rules of the draft law, and we believe that the government which has certainly responded satisfactorily, although it cannot be denied that the present proposal can lead to further fragmentation, even at a time of demographic decline. This may also increase housing costs, including for municipalities. You write in the reply: I do not expect that. But can you back that up again? Are the housing costs included in the evaluations? I don't know who asked, but I think Mrs. Adriaansens. Five years is way too long. We want to see that much faster. Mr. Chairman. I have just said that for D66 there is a heavy burden that, unlike so far, quality requirements are being set for the establishment of new schools. Six requirements have been formulated and the inspection will ensure that the requirements are met before the start of the new school. Has the D66 Group understood correctly that all six criteria must be met before funding is made, and that after opening the inspection will monitor that there is not a promised, paper reality, but that what was promised is being done? Can the Minister make this whole process clear again? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group looks forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u108	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u109	Thank you, Mr President. The freedom of direction is sometimes a bit sought here, but first of all I would like to congratulate Mrs Adriaansen for her wonderful speech in a beautiful place at a wonderful moment. I'm sure the chairman has determined whether this was the first maiden speech ever made in the Knight's Room. I'm sure we'll find out from him. Mr. Chairman. In a meeting that can be called historical by the location alone, today we are discussing a legislative proposal that is also a milestone in itself. Freedom of education includes freedom of direction, but in recent years that freedom of direction in legislation and policy was subsequently also a commandment. A new school had to be public or belong to a direction, in order to be able to be founded. That requirement of a direction as a determining factor in the foundation of a new school is now abandoned. This brings us back to the real freedom of direction and actually to a return to the first explanation, which was given to the educational pace in 1917. If sufficient parents and pupils are interested in a new school, there is room for funding. The Christian Union Group considers the bill to be an underlining of the deepest features of the Dutch education system since 1917. Parents and students are involved in the school. The pluralism of society also becomes visible in education. That is why we are looking at the bill with a positive look. It allows the freedom of education to breathe with the present time, which no longer has the hidden form of previous decades. The bill has a healthy view of today's society, but it is also not naive in the sense that any initiative should lead to a new school. Quality matters. Here we invest in the future of children. That requires great care. So the bill also raises the threshold. All in all, my group is very curious to see how large the actual growth will be. But even if it is small, we still agree that the gauntlet has been picked up to allow freedom of education to have its effect in today's society. On both key points of this freedom, on the one hand the involvement of parents and pupils and, on the other hand, pluralism, my group still has a few questions about this legislative proposal. I would like to ask the Minister, first of all, about the involvement of parents and pupils in the school. The creation of new schools requires a lot of knowledge and skills. During the change of law, there has been a lot of fear that I have heard today that this bill is unintentionally contributing to more schools for children of highly educated, well-off parents. This reverses the situation with regard to the establishment of the founding scheme in the Lower Education Act of 1920. When the bill was discussed in 1920, the relief about the pacification still felt. Then an anti-revolutionary senator sighed that the school struggle for them had the peculiar character of a social issue. After all, only wealthy parents could at that time afford education that reflected their deepest beliefs in all areas. But with the adoption of this bill, the School with the Bible was accessible not only to the children of the rich, but also to poor Christian parents: an end to the socio-economic segregation. Mr. Chairman. We live in different times, but socio-economic segregation is unfortunately still a recurring issue. In the meantime we see that in a number of large cities the postal codes are mainly predictive of how the population of children is at a school and not about that I would like to have underlined that.... or a school is public or special. This segregation is not just solved by education policy. It calls for a government that dares to have a vision of housing, sports and culture policies and to work together with municipalities. But where, in 1920, the freedom of education, and below that of direction, was ultimately designed in such a way that poor children could also go to special education, it must now be prevented from reaching the opposite with new schools at this time. How does the Minister point out to the new initiatives that they do not have a threshold for the participation of parents with a smaller income? To what extent is the adopted Bruins/Van Meenen amendment on parental contributions helpful in this respect? The arrival of a new school will also affect surrounding schools and lead to new plans to put their school on the map. Intentionally or unintentionally, this can also affect the policies of these schools and focus on the breadth or part of society. Does the Minister also take this aspect into account in the assessment of legislation? Mr. Chairman. My second point is the pluralism of society reflected in education. The legislative proposal also promotes that the area of freedom of education for the pluralism of society can also be more reflected in the school foundation. At the same time, there is no change in the standards of abolition or foundation. My group has taken note with approval of the amendment during the legislative process that there remains full protection for the last school of direction. That is important, because it is precisely in this that it becomes clear what freedom of direction or direction means, namely that parents can seek and receive education for their children that is in keeping with their deepest beliefs and with their views on education for a good life. The Group of the Christian Union shares the government's conviction that foundation standards should contribute to the establishment of schools with sufficient and sustainable interest. There must be a genuine community behind the new school to be set up. But in the written preparation, we noted that in crowded areas, in large cities, foundation standards can be so high that it may be too restrictive. Asked about the considerations for maintaining current standards, the focus has been on sustainability of initiatives and sparsely populated areas or shrinking regions. But I would like a more complete answer to my question. Can the evaluation of this bill look at the areas in which new schools actually come into being and the impact of the Foundation's standards in this respect? I'd like to hear from the Minister. The promotion of pluralism must not be at the expense of quality. My group can follow the additional demands that this should ensure, such as the Vog Declaration for drivers and the efforts to prevent revolving door constructions. Poorly functioning administrators, who are always at the root of school foundation plans, must be prevented in the interests of quality of education, but also in the interests of the acceptance of the freedom of education. The bill also stated that for the sake of quality, the administration of a very weak school should not start a new subsidiary. In the House of Representatives, this was added by amendment: the school judged insufficient by the inspection. I understand the background to this amendment very well. Let the energy go first to improving the quality of the already existing school. At the same time, my group is asking a question. Objections may be made to the far-reaching assessment of the weakness of a school. This may lead to a reversal of the assessment of the inspection. But against the less far-reaching judgment "insufficient" that objection is not possible, so that judgment cannot be reversed. This leads to the strange situation that a very weak school has legal possibilities in this area and a school that scores 'insufficient', not. My group does not think that this outcome is desirable and asks the Minister what he intends to do about this illogical inequality. In doing so, I was reminded by Verus, the Christian Education Association, that the current wording in the amended proposal of law gives reason to read the opposite in it. So the school that scores "insufficient" is actually eligible for funding. As you can see, we are asking for clarity from the Minister. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. We are discussing this bill in a very special week. After an unprecedentedly long period of dense schools and home education, the schools have started again. For many children it almost feels like the first day of school after the summer holidays. I brought out one of those cheerful little boys this morning. From this point on, I would particularly like to express my warm appreciation for all those teachers and for all those parents and children who are doing so much work and have done so much. Every effort has been made to ensure that education is as good as possible in these special times. Of course, the Minister and his officials also appreciate this. The crisis we are in is tough. He's gonna ask a lot of us. I wish all in education good courage, wisdom and the lasting joy that it is to be able to contribute to the future of all our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u110	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u111	Thank you, Mr President. If you will allow me, I would like to begin by saying that, despite the terrible reason, it is a privilege to have this debate in our Knight's Room. I would like to express my thanks, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group, to you, to the Registry and to all staff for allowing our work to continue in these circumstances. Congratulations on behalf of our group to the VVD's educational spokesperson, Mrs Adriaansens, for her maiden speech. I look forward to debate and cooperation in the future. Then the order of the day, the Law more room for new schools. In the legendary film Life of Brian, the antihero of the story, Brian, joins a resistance group against the Roman occupation of Judea. They're not the only ones. Among other things, there is the Judean People's Front, the People's Front of Judea and the Popular Front of Judea. They are more concerned with their name, their form, each other's clubs and differences, than with their purpose, namely to drive away those lid Romans. Of course this is a caricature, but with a core of truth. We should not lose ourselves in the form and in it shatter and segregate, but focus on the content. Our education is primarily for the transfer of knowledge and for the formation of our youth. Of course there is room in education for reflection and teaching methods, but these are not basically goals in themselves. The table of seven and the coffin ship must not disappear into the background because of educational experiments or orthodoxy, in any direction. The Forum for Democracy believes that the present law is a solution to a non-existent problem and that it may also cause problems. I would like to clarify both points. In our opinion, our famous Article 23 already provides for the establishment of schools with a certain basis. We are committed to this, but we do not believe that it is necessary to extend or water down further with the somewhat vague concept of 'directive-free education'. After all, there are schools with montessori education, junaplan education or anthroposophical education, and these are not religious movements. Or take experiments like Ideally or the iPad schools. We therefore call on the Minister to reflect on the following. What would this law, in its opinion or in the opinion of the government, add to the already existing freedom of education? We do not think that too many experiments and market-driven educational questions are desirable. Children and young people are not guinea pigs. Especially non-religious movements are also fashion sensitive, think of New Age and the aforementioned iPadmania. The children and the parents of the seventies may remember the anti-authority crèche. Fashionable and thus emerging and weakening phenomena are not good for the continuity, sustainability and support of special education. And then the acceptance measurements by means of a market survey or statements by parents. In part, they will have to provide the basis for new schools in this law. First of all, this is very thin ice. A statement is signed in such a way, but in practice many parents will be reluctant to send their child to a start-up school. Secondly, this model is very susceptible to activism and manipulation. And then, Chairman, we come to our second objection to this law. We wholeheartedly agree with the position paper that the Public Education Association has sent us all. It expresses its concern that this law will encourage segregation of children and young people. We fear that this law will make it even more difficult than it already is to keep questionable trends out of our education. As Mr Van Kesteren of the Freedom Party has just mentioned, the Salafist and extremist Muslims in this country, for example, have more and more feet on the ground, including in education. This means, in some cases, that anti-Dutch, anti-integrative education is provided. As is well known, from among others the Gulf states have a major influence on extreme anti-integrative elements in the Netherlands, including through money that goes to mosques in Dutch neighbourhoods. In addition, totalitarian Islamism, as advocated by Turkish President Erdogan, is also deeply rooted in Dutch neighborhoods, through the many hundreds of mosques of the Turkish Ministry of Faith, Diyanet, which manages these mosques. Now, under the present law, it will probably be a cold trick to recruit parents from this market-driven mindset, so that, even more easily than is the case today, schools of questionableity can be set up, where our young people are being turned their backs on society. The drama of the Islamic Cornelius Haga Lyceum in our capital, where I live and sit in the city council, shows how it is almost impossible to tackle or even close a school once it has been established. The Alderman Education from our previous college has tried to prevent the arrival of this school. The current alderman Education, after several instances of maladministration, signals of radicalisation and gross insults of inspection and municipality by the school administration, has still not managed to close the school. The Minister too has dared bravely, but it turned out to be more or less powerless against these practices. We therefore ask him: how does the Minister intend to prevent or deal with this kind of abuses with the possible entry into force of this law? Here's a good point in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u112	I have a very simple question. The law now before us gives more possibilities to test the quality in advance, doesn't it? It is precisely because direction becomes less decisive that groups are less able to rely on their religious basis and are more likely to be judged on quality. I imagine you'd be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u113	That's a good question. Thank you for that. I'll get back to you on that. But if you do not find the answer satisfactory in my speech, I look forward to a follow-up interruption. In previous contributions to this debate, quality testing was praised in advance by some. How does the government see this quality test in advance? One can easily put up a socially desirable story in advance at the foundation of a school and once the school is a fact a very different face and deliver a much lower quality. We share this concern with the Party for Freedom. In addition, we believe that this law will encourage not only ideological segregation but also socio-economic segregation. I really believe that all the speakers have raised this concern for me. It could happen that especially highly-educated parents with knowledge, skills and money will themselves set up schools for like-minded people. Mrs Sent of the Labour Party also expressed this concern. This also leads to more social segregation towards socio-economic class. We do not think that is desirable either. Mr. Chairman. Our education is overloaded and undervalued. In addition, a lot of things are passed on to education that actually fit more in the care or in the education in the home atmosphere by the parents. Our children need high-level knowledge transfer, thorough education and a safe educational environment. In our view, our Dutch system already offers sufficient and perhaps even a little too much scope for reflection and various methods of teaching, whether experimental or not. This proposal seems to us to be too unfocused in the direction-free sense of the word. There's no need for that, is there? First, let us ensure the best possible education for our children, the best possible environment for teachers and not open Pandora's box to legislation while the current system does not need repair but rest, quality and stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I would ask the members of the OCW committee to go down the stairs to the Basement room under the Knight's Room, before their committee meeting, as a matter of urgency after the suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for a little less than an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u115	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35050, Amendment of various education laws by changing the system of eligibility for funding of new public and special schools so that there is more room for a new education offering, the Law more room for new schools. I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u116	Thank you, Mr President, for the invitation to come here today and to have a debate in this beautiful area. I could never have expected that ever to happen. It's very special, especially when I look over you. Then I see the window on which my own hometown Zwolle can be seen with the gun. That's the way it was supposed to be. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mrs Adriaansen on her maiden speech. I brought her a present, but I'll keep it, or I'll give it to her later, because I don't see her right now. When she arrives, Mr. Chairman, I have here the book "As a rule free. 100 years of politics on education, culture and science."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u117	She's coming in now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u118	I was just introducing a present for you, Mrs Adriaansens, after I first expressed my congratulations. This is a book that was published after the ministry existed for 100 years. It has become a beautiful book with very beautiful articles, in which all kinds of subjects come back, and also rulers and predecessors of me and my colleague Van Engelshoven. I would like to give that to you at an appropriate distance. If you'd like, I could write something down afterwards, if you'd like. I forgot to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u119	Yeah, nice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u120	We can do that later, of course at an appropriate distance. Mr. Chairman. Many questions have been asked about a legislative proposal which, as far as I am concerned, is also a very fundamental legislative proposal. It is fundamental, in the sense that the issues that come back to it do indeed affect our education, the way in which we are working on our education and the opportunities we have created in the country to participate in it and to establish schools. I would also like to have said here that it is a subject that I personally, in fact throughout my career, would like to say, has always run into, sometimes literally. At the time that I myself was in education, at the time that I was a city council member, at the time that I was a Member of the House of Representatives and also now that I am a governr, I come across the reality of the current way in which we have organized the establishment of schools. I am very motivated to pull this bill over the finish line, just to put it at home. Let me make this quite clear here, even though the draft law was conceived in the previous cabinet period. During that time, my party was not part of the government, as you know. However, I am very motivated to withdraw this proposal. I really believe that the current situation is no longer sustainable. It is also a sign of administrative hygiene that word usage is appropriate at this time too, I think, for once in the legislation to give substance to each other and to remove all the annoyances, stumbling blocks and legalisation that are now returning with the regularity of the clock. With this law we are also implementing a motion tabled in 1993 by my esteemed former colleague Dick de Cloe, of which Mrs Jorritsma was also co-author, together with GroenLinks and D66. I have perhaps read that in the House of Representatives in the report, and I apologize that it has taken a while, but it is happening now. I am right in saying that this also carries out a motion by the PVV, which did not reach the final stage in 2015 in the Chamber. That motion related to the quality test at the front. That too is a subject that came back every time. The reason that this motion was not adopted was that it was very narrowed down to one type of school, where you can sort of calculate which one was, but it was very legitimate to deal with the problem behind it. We address it now in this bill. Of course, I will come back to that in a separate way. We are now also giving substance to a cabinet proposal. The Kok I cabinet expressed an extensive position in 1996 in a cabinet note in which it was also said that we should move towards a direction-free planning. Well, none of that happened back then, but now it does. I would also like to say this specifically in the direction of Mrs Sent, who also knows that her party has been involved in initiatives very often in the past and is actually now being served by this bill, although I understand that there are questions, which I will of course address. Mr. Chairman. I gave you my list. I made two blocks. In the first block, I will deal with the requirements of the new schools and, of course, I will also answer the questions on that point. In the second block, I will deal in particular with the direction-free planning, which will mainly include the subject of segregation, because that is a subject that many of you have rightly asked questions about. In the first block, I will focus on the reason for this bill, the quality test, the measurement of interest, the requirements for the legal person, the obligation to invite and a number of other questions that have been asked. Why this bill? In particular, the honourable Member of the SP, Mr Van Apeldoorn, asked questions about this, such as the question of what kind of problem this bill actually solves. Well, you heard my introductory words. There are really big problems. Of course, you can always turn it off against other problems that exist, including in education, and I am not going to waste an ounce of it, but if we are not going to be able to deal with other issues that are also important then, we are, of course, taking ourselves hostage. So the moment you deal with such a subject as this, we don't take a gram away from the fact that we are dealing with a teacher shortage and we don't take a gram away from the fact that we also have to have discussions with each other, which can even be linked to it about the inequality of opportunity that is growing in some places. We have concerns about this, as we also have concerns about the quality of education, which is actually falling in a number of places. Those are all very legitimate subjects. This also applies to the discussion on Article 23. I'm always awakening for that, even in the middle of the night, and poke for it, but it still goes a bit beyond this bill, especially since you know, on the basis of the coalition agreement, that this bill has been given a certain framework that also affects Article 23. So maybe that's going to come up at another time, but I'm not gonna overthink it now. Why is it important that we do this now and what are these annoyances now? That's actually three big ones we keep bumping into. First of all, the fact that only a recognised direction plays a role in the right to finance and in the establishment of schools. In the explanatory statement, you have read a beautiful historical argument about it. At some point, it is also just that way at the end of the day, actually purely for financial reasons. Because it was too open and it cost too much. So it's a little tighter, so you could also keep some people at bay and the expenses that could be controlled. This sometimes led to very strange situations, because sometimes everyone tries to find the space to intervene if one had the legitimate desire to start a school somewhere. You know the situations that go on to this day, and there has also been a great deal of legalization about it, that one looked at what then was the free space for a direction in a particular area or in a particular city. Take the city of Utrecht, for example: what is there room? Because some directions are actually already occupied by schools; there is nothing left to do with that. But you still want to start a school. Then you look for the spaces that are still there. If you have a bit of knowledge, and sometimes you still have to hire someone for that, people who have the opportunity to do so, have often used that. Then you try to put a little logic into that and formulate a basis for it. You have seen that in practice this cannot be stopped with the current law. For example, in a number of places schools have arisen with remarkable combinations of directions, not because that was an intrinsic motivation from the inside out.In my opinion, it is sometimes very difficult to experience all these directions at the same time intrinsically, but purely and simply to establish a school. This can be done in the current situation. We find that undesirable and we can't really do anything about it, but with the new law, we can. I'll come back to that later. We also have the direction "general special." That is an example I mentioned in the House of Representatives. I repeat that here, because I think it is very clear. This includes a lot of education and really educational concepts, such as Maria Montessori, but also Jena Plan. But there really are differences between them. You might have to be a gourmet to know that. Parents know that if they choose a school like this and people who have studied for it know that too. Apparently it is the same, that is to say, general special; that is one direction. There was a montessori school in Eindhoven. He already had two types of school. He wanted to start a vwo and applied for it. "No," they said, "it can't be, because that segment, that space, that directional space, in that place is already occupied by the jenaplan school." That's a whole different thing. So it just couldn't. I would like to give a third example, of a school that considered sustainability to be very important and for that reason also formulated in the basis'sustainability' and'sustainable developments'. That school has tried twice, really with parents' interest, to make an application, but it was rejected because there was no direction. Given the time I won't do it, but that's really how I can do it. I don't think I'm going to overdo it for hours. There has been a great deal of legalization at that point. This also applies to the second stumbling block, namely the way in which the forecasting system functioned. I shall come back to Mrs Sent's questions on that point. But it's really a difference if you start from those direct measurements and supposed possibilities, where, for example, if you go to a Catholic school somewhere, you just look at how many Catholics there are and if there are schools already. If there are, it might be enough if you think: there are about as many Catholics. If there are no schools but Catholics and you can get to the foundation standard, you can start a school. In short, the prognosis, as it is now taking place, which does not look at the real interest, has in practice led to a great deal of casuism and in practice has also led to enormous Juridisation. If there is an application at any given time, a comparison must be made with a similar city. We have had the situation that Zoetermeer was compared to Maastricht. But Westland was also compared to Maastricht. If you google "Westland" and "school foundation," you will encounter a whole story. In fact, I had to have a place there in the context of the whole judicial process that had taken place there, even up to and including the city council, which ignored the judgment of the highest court. Of course, that is not possible in our country. In short, there is a huge judicialisation and there is a great deal of uncertainty and incomprehension about how the forecasting system works in the current law. I'll come back to what we came up with later. I dare say here that it is a really well thought-out proposal. But one thing is certain about all the questions you have about what is to come: what is to come is really no longer of this time, as far as it has ever been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u121	Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u122	May I give you one more example, Mr President? Then I've had it in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u123	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u124	I'm referring to that quality test. I'll come back to the contents later. Now there's nothing at all! There's nothing at all! So if with a prognosis you don't even look at the actual interest until the judgment "this school meets the foundation standards in this place, the foundation requirements," then it's done. Then the ship is pushed off shore and when it's 1 mm off shore read "the funding has been signed," so they have a funding decision.We're just gonna see what they're all doing there: oh, it's okay, who are those drivers anyway, are they gonna comply with our legal requirements? That is a huge gap in our legislation, isn't it? We're going to solve that now; at least if this bill gets a majority. Anyone who votes against the legislative proposal must realise that this part will not become a reality, even though we are longing for it. I will not go into specific cases, but I am still looking at Mrs Nanninga, and she will know what I am talking about. Besides, she mentioned it in her contribution. At that time one could jump high or low, but no demand could be made. It was pure lookin' in a not very nice way in my eyes, but it was according to the law whether there was interest and if so, there it went. The whole segment is now forgiven. If you'd like anything else, there's no room for it. In short, Mr. Chairman, it is a good thing this law is in place. Of course, I am happy to answer the questions, because I understand that there are still a lot of questions to ask. This isn't just sticking to a bubble or seeing what kind of problem there is right now. That is really, with all due respect, not doing justice to a not so pleasant reality that has developed over the past 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u125	I'm just trying to tighten up the problem analysis. In the explanatory statement we read: there is practically no room for new schools. Quite apart from the question of whether you see that as a problem or not, that is what the Minister says. He is now also giving an example, which I believe was also included in the explanatory memorandum for schools in the direction of 'general special': if there is already a school based on montessori or dalton education, there is no room for a jenaplan school. On the other hand, I heard the Minister say, at the beginning of his speech, that under the current legislation, new schools do indeed exist on the basis of very curious combinations, and that is undesirable. So I would like to make it a little more clear: is there no room for new schools at all under the current legislation, or is it the wrong kind of room, so to speak? How am I supposed to interpret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u126	There's room, but we shouldn't exaggerate it either. If you look at the numbers of attempts made to start schools, you can see the developments. You got the whole list, didn't you? After all, you asked for it in the written questions. But at the moment when we do want to make an effort to get a foothold, in a real way, there must be legislation and regulations for that. You also have to do justice to the interest that parents have. There is therefore an interest in this; there are initiators for it. Then there is a practice of legalization and breaking up and so on, or there is a use of possibilities that can be done in accordance with the law, which has even been pronounced by the judge, but which we know deep down in our hearts that this has not been the intention. That's what I'm saying here. That is what we must do in our laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u127	But I still have a question about the example of general special education and the different teaching methods that exist, such as jenaplan, montessori and so on. There is also a great deal to say that there are different methods. It also allows schools to learn from each other, I think. But it is already possible that public primary schools can also opt for such a pedagogical concept? I think I went to one of those schools myself, a junaplan school that was public. So that space is already there on the basis of the current legislation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u128	Sure, that's right. Pedagogical concepts can also be linked to public education. I gave this example to give you an example of what kind of situation you might find in a place if you would like to take a next step with respect to a vwo education at your school and you are denied that right, because another part or segment of general special education has that, even if you can demonstrate on the basis of your school population and your constituents that you would have people for it. That's a pretty nasty situation, because you're actually being prevented from expanding your school in a good way because of the way we've set up this whole system together. This is one example. I just said there's a lot more to name. Sometimes there is also a whole discussion about whether or not something is part of a direction. Let me take a look at Mr Schalk. Maybe he can remember the example from Ede, because that was about reformatorial education. The court had even to rule on, in summary, whether or not synod statements should be contained in a base. You can go through with this. That could be a choice. But we're in a situation where it's much better, so I used the word "administrative hygiene" to just make sure you adjust your legislation properly and do a little more justice to actual interest and initiatives from parents who don't feel directly linked to a particular direction. Now you're locked up in those 15 recognized directions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u129	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u130	Thank you for that answer, but I would like to ask a few questions about this. The minister said there were big problems. Let us look at it from the perspective of Dutch children who need high quality education that is generally accessible, with the education they need, of dedicated masters and teachers. Can the Minister also relate the major problems he raises to that perspective in relation to this legislation? So what does this law mean for those children and for that need for generally accessible, high-quality education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u131	That was the third one. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u132	Those children have parents, or a parent or a caregiver who bears responsibility for that child; I would like to see that in that unit. There's such a parent here, and maybe you are; I don't know you personally. But even if you're not, you'll understand that for parents, the child may be the most beautiful possession they've gotten, the most precious gift. That's actually what they're giving me. I might say it a little solemnly in the hands of the school. I therefore believe that parents can make a choice and have views on which school they want to send their children to. And if they don't like that education in their environment, because it doesn't fit in well with how they want their children to be educated, regardless of the fact that, of course, there are legal obligations for all schools in which you will find each school, then I think that that possibility should also be common to those parents. In our current system, this is therefore quite limited, at least for a certain group of parents, who do not feel free in those directions. I am convinced that, as a parent, if you are best placed with your child, the choice of education you make may also be explained in that line. Then we will even be reluctant when parents make choices that might not be our choices if they were our children. But that is the beauty of the wide range of schools and education we have in this country. There are also a few limitations: I will come back to that later. But I have the freedom of education, because that is what we are talking about, of course, one of the most beautiful achievements of parliamentary democracy ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u133	Thank you for your very enlightening explanation so far. The Minister mentioned the ex ante review criteria as an important point in this legislative proposal. Let there be no misunderstanding: our group is very pleased with that. Only, we see it so that they could be implemented loosely as it were. So good testing criteria for school applications, for school administrators, including integrity. Of course, that does not require this whole further law. Because, of course, it is much wider than just that one point, which is indeed very good. In addition, we have seen amendments from Westerveld and Kwint, from GroenLinks and the SP, rejected which could have made this whole package much more digestible in our view. So I do not see any argument to convince our group to agree to this, even though there is a big point of that pre-trial review that we agree with. Surely that could simply be introduced separately from this whole package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u134	First of all, when it comes to amendments in the House of Representatives, I did not recognize myself at all in the brief summary of my attitude given by Mr Van Apeldoorn. I've been pretty generous. There are also a number of amendments that have just been adopted, including those from the opposition. The fact that some have not been accepted has sometimes had to do with how a majority of the House ultimately ruled. In the end, of course, there is the power to vote on amendments. All I can do is give you a piece of advice. And there were amendments that, as far as we are concerned, went a little too far, but we tried to see if we could provide for the concerns behind them in a different way. So that's one. Then the second in your direction. You say you can make demands on schools in a different way, can't you? The point is that we are already looking and judging here, so before a school has gotten an official decision that it can be a school and is going to get funding. In the current system, that is not possible. You can only have some thoughts about it. You can be very annoyed. It can be debated in the city council. But in the end, you have to accept it if you meet the criteria of the law. You can even go through with it. That has also happened a lot. But that's the final judgment a judge gives. That's the situation in the Westland right now. Whether we like it or not, it doesn't really matter. We have to look at this from the legal and regulatory point of view. So also in your direction: if you think it is important, if there are new schools, that there will be a close look at and testing at the front, there will be restrictions in that too, but all we are doing now is more than what is happening now. I think that this bill will give you more control than fall back on the old situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u135	Mrs. Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u136	No, I don't have any follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u137	Then you will continue your speech. Oh, excuse me. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u138	The Minister began by sketching the rich history of this bill. The speeches by Mr Van Apeldoorn led me to look at the number of pupils and what happens to them on the website of the government. There is, of course, a difference between the 1990s and what we have seen in recent years with student numbers. In primary education, for example, there was a decrease of 110,000 between 2008 and 2015. After that, there was a decrease of 60,000. About 80% of secondary schools face falling numbers of pupils. That's persistent and likely to last until 2028. This leads to the question: what consequences does it have to offer more scope for new schools, in a context where we are dealing with falling student numbers, for existing schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u139	First of all, we are not doing anything about foundation standards. You must have noticed that, too. Let's make it fully effective. Part of that is an answer to your question. There are indeed areas where the fall in pupils has hit quite a bit. We are also encouraging this in person, so that we do not think on our own territory: let me protect this and the rest of us will figure it out. No, the collective responsibility is that there is close education for the youth growing up in that area, both primary and secondary education. From my portfolio, that is my responsibility. That is one and it is very important to keep an eye on it. The second is the idea that this bill is now going to create enormous competition. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. I don't think that does justice to what we're doing here with each other either. In the current situation, it is simply possible to establish schools. I've just indicated on what roads that can sometimes be done. I think, by the way, that especially people who have something in the house have the most chance of getting such a school off the ground in the end. And by "have something in the house," I mean money, too, because you're gonna have to hire a desk to make sure you meet all the requirements. The parents are now completely ignored. In the new situation, I will come back to another block of questions about this. On the contrary, the parents are actually involved. That's a huge win. When parents are in a school where they don't feel senang anymore, an apple from the school itself can go out to see what's going on. In the system of this law is that invitation obligation. It will be activated if there is a new initiator. In secondary education it is now even the situation that when one is almost finished, one can suddenly say to the municipality: hello, here we are, will you take care of a building? That may be a bit flat and picturesque, but that is actually the situation. In this situation, you have to make your initiative known right in front of you. The initiators must therefore invite the others to the conversation. And with those others belong the other boards as well as the partnership. So they have to come to such a conversation. If you see as an existing school that there is such an initiative, then I hope you are not just going into the defensive "Of, we must stop that!" But there's also some kind of self-reflection on what's happening. How is it that parents are worried about this at my school? How could they possibly want something else? And then there's plenty of time, because this takes a bit of time to see if you can provide for it. It may well be that the desire to set up such a school may dries up, because there is trade and parents are served in what they want to find at a school. There are limits to that, but that's how it could work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u140	Is this the answer to your question, Mrs. Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u141	I have one small follow-up question, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u142	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u143	My concern is the effect in a context of shrinkage in existing schools, and my concern... Now I'm losing my touch. ... That's what you get from all that zooming all day. That's where you really get...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u144	I recognize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u145	We'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u146	It's not good for your mental capacity. Uh... I just don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u147	I will deal first with your first concern, so that you can think for a while. From your first concern, I have already indicated that we are not doing anything about the level of foundation standards. I will come to the system with which we intend to measure in the new law. As demographic data are also included for the long term, this means that, if there is a shrinkage, it will become clear that it will be much more difficult to reach these levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u148	Yes. I already know what the second point was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u149	Look, it helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u150	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The second concern is the following. Of the schools that have started, only a third of them meet the standard in terms of numbers of pupils after a number of years. My overall concern is that this legislative proposal creates enormous unrest: unrest towards existing schools and unrest towards new schools that are being started and that ultimately do not meet the standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u151	That really is a misconception about how the bill stands. I would like to come back to another block, but for a short time now. In the current system you can actually do nothing at all and a school can stay below the lifting standard for years. I'll tell you exactly what I'm gonna do until the ninth year. In the new system it is already clear within four years. If one doesn't meet, it's done. So even in that respect, this law is much better than the old law. I would ask you to take a closer look at that. That was an important point of yours, but there was a misconception with you about how to interpret the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u152	Mrs. Sent, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u153	Yeah, third and last. I asked questions about that and they were answered. The written reply indicated that one third of the schools after that period did not meet the required student numbers, with the result that there was further unrest in the system. It's obvious, isn't it? That's not a desirable effect, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u154	You have only heard part of the answer, but I will return to it separately, if you will allow me, because I want to do it very precisely. But there was a misconception here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u155	Just a point of order, Minister. You have two large blocks consisting of nine smaller blocks. Is that number of nine right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u156	The first consists of six...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u157	And the second out of three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u158	The second block consists of a very large part and a slightly smaller one. That's two of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u159	I'm counting three on the list I got.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u160	Yeah, but I made that a little more compact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u161	But we're still in the first part of the first block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u162	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u163	'Cause we've been at it for half an hour. So you have a total of eight. So at this rate, it's going to take us four hours. Then we're all prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u164	It's an important law...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u165	That's why. That's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u166	... and fundamental questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u167	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u168	I would like to do justice to the Chamber, but I will try to keep it short, because that is your message. I have just said enough about the value of the quality test. On the one hand, these are the six requirements. That's what's being looked at strictly. If you don't meet a proper requirement, you just can't get started. It's very simple. It is also important to know that the adequacy requirements have a clear legal basis. The choice of these requirements has been very careful; you have also been able to read this in the explanatory statement. We consider these relevant, objective and proportionate with regard to assessing whether a school is of a qualitative nature that it has everything in order to get started. I mentioned that in the Lower House the first basket, the most important basket. In the second basket there were six and by now there are indeed ten because of the amendments in the House of Representatives. Those are the other elements of quality. They are also important for the success of a school. From a political point of view, we say that we really need to pay attention to this. In the end, that's also a weighting. That is how you should see the vote on certain amendments. This has led to the addition of four, which the inspection does not yet consider to be sufficiently testable to be placed in the first basket. Some are also not robust requirements. But we think it is important that schools are working on this in good time and that the inspection should also be able to address them in the manner in which they are doing so. Amongst other things, segregation is an example of this, because by amending it, this subject has been added very emphatically to the other elements of quality, as they are asked to be. The inspection will develop both the robustness requirements and the other elements of quality in an advisory framework. On this basis, an assessment will ultimately be made of an initiative. So there's a very thorough look. Again, everything we do here, every move we make here, is already more than what is happening in the current situation. I think that is very important. I am also pleased that we have been able to organise this in this way and put it in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u169	I have a brief clarification question. The Minister makes it very clear that these elements, which are therefore related to quality, are tested by the inspection. But there are also a few that are tested by the municipality. That is the case with that view. There's some discrepancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u170	I will explain later the link between the view and these elements. There is indeed a connection. I can answer the question as to how far the inspection is going. The inspection is not going to deal with it, after all, there is freedom of establishment and how schools will deal with it. But, for example, with regard to the content of education, it is of course necessary to look at whether the core objectives are simply given a place in the curriculum. No more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u171	That makes sense. But that is the task of the inspection and not of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u172	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u173	Now that you have reached these quality standards, have we understood correctly that you have to meet all those requirements before you get permission?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u174	Yeah, you have to meet the standards. That's right. The other elements of quality are used to put the school in a position very early to work with. Some of those other elements of quality are taken into account directly at the start of the school, if the funding has taken place on the basis of the adequacy requirements, in the research that makes the inspection to the schools take place. In short, the content of the schools is, of course, far better organised than in the current situation, in which everything starts only once the financing decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u175	That seems to me to be a huge added value, but I am concerned that this is a paper reality, which is not based on reality. There can of course be ex post verification of whether that was the case, but how is it done to ensure that not some clever agency is hired, that writes beautiful reports that are then implemented slowly? So how can we ensure that this is not just a paper reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u176	So you can see that if you solve something that isn't there right now, there can also be a concern right away. And once we've solved that concern, there might be another concern. Just a little more specific. As soon as this is settled, a positive assessment has been made and the funding given, the inspection will start immediately with its supervision. If the school is not satisfied, if what you are saying is true, I think that is a bit of a black look at the schools, but let us say that the case is correct. If they don't, they'll get one more chance, a one-year recovery assignment. If it's not done yet, then it's end of practice. Then the plug is pulled out, so to speak, although it is very loaded in politics, so I remember from my previous position. In short, that is the situation. Well, that's not happening now. So that is another huge added value. Think again about what we are adding to this bill in relation to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u177	As far as I am concerned, it is a potential added value. I would only find it a real added value if it is also in line with reality. And I wonder if that can be organized sufficiently in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u178	Suppose it is not reality, then this law provides the opportunity to intervene within one or two years. That's what I reported. Not in the current law. The current law does not even ask and cannot intervene. So we can see that for years schools are muddling with poor quality and sometimes even below the lifting standard, when nothing can happen! All right, you'll notice my enthusiasm for the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u179	Yes. Mrs. Sent, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u180	Well, let's close it down. But in this case, you may allow a school to start and you may have to conclude after a year that that did not happen on the right grounds, with all the consequences and uncertainty that had to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u181	At the moment, the choice is: are we going to go on according to the law that is there, the current law, or are we going to choose a law that does something about these things and allows us to act? That's the choice. That choice is, of course, up to you and your group; I respect that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the formation of citizenship and everything around it. Questions have been asked about this by the honourable Member of the CDA, Mr Doornhof, and in my view also by Mr Van Apeldoorn and perhaps by a few others. We are indeed calling for attention to be paid to this, because we find it a very important thing in our time. We're still doing that on the basis of the current law. That is no different, of course, because there must be a legal basis underneath. The law, which I have already worked very hard on, lies with the House of Representatives. We are now finalising the note on the report. In this time of Corona, of course, everything is delayed, but I hope that it will be dealt with quickly and will reach you soon. Indeed, I am very convinced that it is very important that we should give each other a bit more clear wine than the current law does. This is another example of a law that no longer works that way. Mr Schalk asked: what are the basic values? These are the basic values of our democratic rule of law, which will soon be at the heart of the general citizenship mission. School culture must also be in line with those values. I will, of course, have that debate later, possibly here as well. I know that Mr Schalk will be at the microphone to discuss this further. But these are the broad lines of this story. You asked where it was, so it's in the Lower House. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have answered the questions relating to the quality test that takes place before a school can start. I've done that in a broad sense. Mr Van Kesteren specifically asked about Islamic education. Legislation is universal. It applies to everything. Everyone is covered, including the Islamic schools. That is why I have explained the motion of your party colleague in the House of Representatives. I couldn't do otherwise, either, given the oath I took when I took the oath. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the interest measurement. I have just said something about this, also in the direction of Mrs Sent. I'm gonna try to be very brief. Now a rough assessment is made of a direction and the space that will take that direction in the place where one wants to start the school, and sometimes a slightly larger area; that is up to oneself in secondary education. Then we'll see if there's enough room. Let me give you an example. They want to establish a Catholic school. Usually there are examples of Catholic schools that no longer exist, but let me give you an example in which this happens again. Then it looks at how many Catholics there are in that area and whether there are Catholic schools. That's what a calculation is about, and then you know if there's room or not. No parent is questioned in the current system, none. Parents play no part whatsoever in the way we now look at whether foundation standards are being met. There is no concrete school in the picture either. It's actually just a paper exercise. Of course, there are flesh and blood people behind that as initiators. Soon we will make a long-term forecast based on demographic data. We're gonna have parents involved in that, too. Not that the immediate intention is that these parents should, in a manner of speaking, if they say yes now, also send their children immediately, that this should be measured. In any case, that is always a consideration that should be left to the people themselves. Sometimes you can come back to a decision you've made. But it is precisely by involving parents of children in the age group of 2 to 4 years that you can ultimately formulate some kind of interest rate. Know that incredibly many statisticians, but also all kinds of organizations, have been involved. There have been talks throughout the country to eventually realize these formulas. The proportion of parents' interest is reflected in demographic data. However, both the rates of interest among parents and those demographic data aim to identify the situation eleven years after the application, whether that school would be viable. Then we also apply a correction factor, but that is what is happening in the current system. There is a little behind that that people can say that they are going to do it, but that we should also take into account that not everyone will do it. This is established by ministerial regulation. We're taking over the correction factor of the old system. We may gain experience over time. We'll follow it, of course. There is an evaluation after five years, but of course follow closely what will happen here. Then that can be adjusted if necessary. That's the way we're decorating it now. Of course, there are always questions about that when "is that going to work?" And "is that true, yes or no?" However, contrary to the current system, this is already a huge improvement, because parents are actually being questioned, because a concrete example of a school being set up can be looked at and because we are taking this democratic data very actively with us. That is how I feel about these strange comparisons between these cities, for example between Zoetermeer and Maastricht or between Westland and Maastricht; I always call them, because they have been the most pronounced, also because of the legal routes after that. So you don't have to do that anymore. I am convinced that this really gives a much more reliable prognosis than the old systems we will have to use now. If this law did not get a majority, the old system would still be in force in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u182	Can the Minister further underpin his enthusiasm, given that the measurement of interest is entirely non-binding and has no formal legal significance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u183	The latter you say in a way as if it is nothing, but that in that sense it has no legal meaning, has to do with the fact that a parent can always, in a manner of speaking, say: and yet I go to another school for the first time. If a child is in a school, a parent can also decide that the child no longer goes to that school. You asked why four years is assumed. It happens in the early years of school that a parent says: I have chosen this, but... Parents are therefore very much concerned with the choice of school for children in that age group, as you know, for 10 to 12 years old: what do the schools look like? They compare the schools and you name it. So that's what's behind the fact that it's not hard legal. It would also be very strange if you would say: you are now filling in a survey on an initiative, we record your name and if you do not go with your child later, we will send the army in. No, of course you can't. That is why we have regulated this in the law in this way. But compare it with the current situation. It's really a difference between night and day. The day will come, won't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u184	The Minister has measured my objections and doubts about that support, that consumer research or parents' declaration of willingness to support a school cannot at all take away. Maybe I'm looking at the matter a little bit with a metropolitan look at it. That will certainly be the case, but there are, of course, whole districts in large cities that are influenced by trends which I consider to be less desirable: small Ankara in Rotterdam, New West in Amsterdam, Salafism, Erdogan Islamism. I see in front of me that there really is an active recruitment, as is happening around elections, for example: it is just being told what to vote. It just happens. I hope you can take that care away. I've been to election meetings like this, and it just happens. I am afraid that this is being abused in the new system in relation to the old system, which simply looks at the population composition and the denomination, and that it really doesn't get any better. I wonder how the Minister sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u185	That actual interest is one part of that larger whole of calculating. I have just indicated that demographic data are also part of this. They play a very important role in this. In addition, it is not a question that parents who are questioned are ultimately the ones who actually send their children. On the basis of that calculation, we are looking at whether there would eventually be sufficient interest in the eleventh year after the foundation. You're taking this as a factor. You use the word "calling," so I can take that in my mouth. If there are reasons to believe that an application has been made improperly, it could also be part of what it puts on paper in the municipality's view. One part of the view ends up with DUO. DUO is the one who is going to assess whether that whole application has been properly made. In short, that is a factor to consider, also in the final assessment of the application.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u186	The Minister therefore does not consider that conscious campaigns and recruitments under perhaps less desirable elements could distort that image, not even in the long term of 11 years, and could therefore give undue positive advice to anti-integrative schools in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u187	In any case, each school should not only be judged on whether sufficient potential can be demonstrated for the longer term. They are also assessed on substantive aspects. If it is obvious that something is anti-integrative and if it does not meet what we demand and expect from schools through legislation and regulations, then that is where you fall. In short, there are different ways of judging. And as for the way in which the parents give their answers when they are questioned, that goes for every parent, of course. It's something that happens to that parent. One will do it completely autonomously. Someone else is gonna talk to his parents, if he still has one, or to the neighbor, or to a sister who already has a child at school. In short, there are different kinds of influences, which are, of course, also legitimate to some extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u188	Let's check with the Minister. I understand that parent research and market research are methods that we're going to investigate to see if they provide a reliable picture of the extent to which you can predict the viability of a school. Well, then it's especially important that we look at how this works out in the evaluation. If it doesn't work out well, then we need to look again for methods that are getting closer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u189	Of course, we will have to follow how this develops in practice. But take it from me that this has been very carefully considered. There have also been top people involved: people who work with statistics and with demographic data and so on. So we really stand for what we have formulated here. But it will obviously have to be tested in practice. Then there is the question of you, Mrs Sent, about one third of the school communities. I told you it was one part of the answer. This involved a school community for mavo, havo and vwo in the third year. If you read further, you will find another example. Then it concerns 11 of the twelve school communities that meet it. So you took one part of this answer. I can be quite clear about it: this is according to the old system. According to the old system, this kind of situation can arise. I think you don't think that's desirable. Perhaps that is another reason to look at the new system again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u190	I have expressed concerns about the non-binding nature of the parental statements. In this context, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that children are regularly allocated to schools, at least with me in Nijmegen, by drawing lots. Then there is no freedom at all, or only a limited freedom, to choose a school. How do this parental statement and the desire to give parents more choices relate to the draw taking place in some cities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u191	That's a very interesting question. Mr President, do you mind if I return to the subject of segregation? I wanted to name that part. It is a school which has already been founded, an existing school. That is the difference with what we are talking about: involving parents in the possibility of choosing a school. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions about the market research. By amending from the Lower House the direct measurements of parents and the like have become the rule, but market research can take place. In the answers, you have already seen two particular situations in which this is applied. Let me give you one concrete example. That therefore affects the function of guaranteeing public education, on which Mr Pijlman also asked a question. Parents can announce that they would like such an investigation to take place, for example in a new building district, where there are no parents you can question. In the end, the municipality can also choose to do so itself. For example, the city council could instruct the college to do so. But the rule is that it will also be the most likely to happen that it will take place according to that other method of measurement. Mr. Chairman. There is one more question, asked by Mrs Sent, about the years of learning. Oh, I already answered that. It was about that one quote you had, and I completed the other part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u192	Mr Schalk, on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u193	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That was about the market research. So the regular route is through the parental statements. But it seems that if it doesn't work through the parental statements, for example at a public school, the market research is kind of a second best, next best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u194	That's a misconception. No, it's not: we've tried everything and then we're going to try it again. It applies to those two specific circumstances which are also contained in the reply. You can find it in there. We indicate what the market research can be used for. The amendment from the House of Representatives, I think, was also from your party colleague, along with the CDA, has ensured that this is simply the way that will be followed. That's what the concern was who could use it. Those are probably the parents who also have some in their wallet, because you have to hire a desk for that. That means a whole part of it's gonna fall away. I am therefore convinced that this new law is more accessible, also because of the difference with the old law. Because it's so complicated that you often have to bring in experts. The new law thus gives parents a faster possibility than is possible under the current law. Mr. Chairman. I was just saying something about the municipality's view. This was also achieved in good consultation with the House of Representatives, because it was seen as a gap and it was stated from certain cities that they would find it too limited, if only they could join in on that consultation. As a municipality, they want to take on a broader responsibility. That's what I've come up with. That's an example of my non-string, so to speak. I also said that I think it is of added value, but that we should keep in mind that a municipality cannot ultimately determine whether or not a school is going to be there. That is the case from our Constitution, otherwise we will have a situation like we had in Westland. I believe that there will be very few people here who will find that a good way forward. A municipality is therefore entitled to express its views. That view is addressed to DUO with regard to the application procedure. Mrs. Nanninga asked for that. The point of view also goes to the inspection which will examine the adequacy requirements very strongly. The inspection shall take the view in this regard. It can also help greatly in the conversation she is going to have with the initiators. Suppose there really is a kind of opposition from the municipality to an initiative. Well, then, of course, that's a reason for talking. The inspection can use the municipality's report to conduct the conversation in a very targeted manner. For example, when it comes to fear of segregation, it may even be a good reason to take this as the subject, at the time when the school meets all the legal requirements, and then follow them closely and sit on top of it, I would almost say. Mr Ganzevoort asked about this. In short, it really has added value. In the end, the advice will be with the ruler. If I can still see it this time of year, it's me. Otherwise, it's my successor. It must, of course, look at the final advice that the inspection gives and at the reporting that takes place from DUO. But he also has the view on his desk. Of course, that is also something that you can weigh when you look at the advice, although you are bound by legal requirements. But it could be. We have that in the old system, by the way. In the end it is so firm that, perhaps not from the demands that have been made, it goes to such a ruler and that he or she, weighing everything, then makes a different choice. That is, of course, the time when, in the old situation, we also have that often goes to court and the judge can finally decide on it. What I'm saying here is all very theoretical. Space is not large, but in theory it is also present in the current situation. But once again, there's often a hallway to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u195	Parents have a certain interest in an initiative for a new school. The inspection monitors and checks. But that is often formal legal or just procedural. Then the Minister says: if something turns out to be going on, there will be a good discussion about it. But it's only formal legal and procedural. When you talk about citizenship, things are often raised there that are not compatible with the rule of law. Shouldn't you be able to have a conversation about that? Or is that different in the new legislation? Can we focus more on this content?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u196	In any case, it is already a great deal that this legislation allows the discussion to take place at the front, so before the financing decision has been taken. The example you mention is precisely the example in which the inspection can do something. In fact, if information comes from the municipality as to the need for citizenship, and it is reasonable to question that the school therefore meets that requirement and if the inspection also concludes that it does not, then the school does not meet the conditions for obtaining funding, at least on that point. That's enough to say it's off. When it comes to the other elements of quality, there is less hardness. Those aren't standards yet. But they do help to be extremely steering, to really have all the good conversation in advance, that is not meant as a doer of death and to make sure that immediately as the funding has taken place... And then some of those elements change quality. In the case of segregation, for example, this is the case. This will be an immediate necessity and then the inspection can be much tighter. After a year or two, if it really doesn't work out, the inspection can say it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u197	The Minister has heard that in this Chamber segregation is a very broad issue of concern. Even parties that say that this might still be a good direction ask how to prevent anti-integrative developments. That could be in the contents of the school. We are talking about citizenship, which Mr Van Kesteren also mentioned. It can also be in very different elements such as the location et cetera. I think that we are looking for a way between something that cannot be heard and'stop, no funding, no school et cetera' and the communication: go ahead. I'd like to hear something firmer from the Minister about that. This is perhaps the solution that can be used a little more firmly through that view. That is why I asked whether the Minister is prepared to give that view that weight. At what points would you be able to adjust the plan so that it will work and that municipality is no longer so massive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u198	First of all, the question of housing. It's really a misunderstanding that the initiators can determine where the housing is going to be. I'm tasting that a little bit in your words, but maybe I'm tasting it wrong. That's up to the city. This is also very important in the context of combating segregation. I myself, in the run-up to the treatment in the Lower House, found that there were even municipalities where responsible aldermen did not know that. So that's up to the municipality. It can determine where the school goes. There too, you can send a message about combating a concern that you may have about segregation; in the reasonable of course, because you are not going to put them on an industrial site, or it must be mutually agreed. That's one. The second is that the inspection can intervene fairly hard with regard to the adequacy requirements, because of the legal ground that lies underneath them. This may be less possible with the other requirements of quality, but they are not suddenly worthless, otherwise the Chamber would not have supplemented them either. Those offer the opportunity to steer them, even in the discussions with the initiators I would almost say that if things don't go well on parts. They offer the possibility, as soon as the funding has taken place and the rest is therefore fully agreed, of using the supervision, including risk-based supervision, of the inspection from day one. If, in some parts, they think that it is the right way forward, but it is still vulnerable, then that is of course also a reason to follow it very intensively. When it comes to segregation, you will know that even if it is necessary to do so, it will change with the possibility of funding, i.e. retention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u199	I mentioned the point of the locations not so much because of the housing, but because I think the point of the locations and segregation are linked in the educational agenda, the assignments and so on. So, in my view, the link between these two is being established. This also seems important to me, but it is also about the broader story. When I hear the Minister, he says that its review is primarily at the time of the inspection, but that it is ultimately the ruler who has to sign it. Is the Minister prepared to give this concern to the inspection and to take seriously the issue of the assessment of what the municipality's view means for the overall package of adequacy requirements and other aspects of quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u200	In the end, the inspection will work if the legislation is through both chambers and, of course, takes into account what has been discussed, in the way in which it will have to proceed itself. It has not been for nothing that both in the Lower House and now in this Upper Chamber the point of segregation has become a subject. We have therefore added this very emphatically to what they must also actively look at in their actions. So in the supervisory framework that they are going to develop in order to finally give the advice, they will take it with them. In my second block, in which I will go a little further on the subject of segregation, I will come back to the question of how I would like to put the inspection even more in a position to do more on this point. Indeed, I see a number of deficits which I believe can be resolved, or at least we can take steps that will bring about real improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u201	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u202	In this way, the Minister says in so many words that he will take this issue of segregation and the view into account in the development of the supervisory framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u203	Segregation is already part of the other elements of quality that need to be considered. So that's already been done by amendment from the House of Representatives. That's just what the inspection is going to do. It is in the second basket, but it is no less important to do so. I have some other suggestions to make later, because I think we can do a little extra when the school starts, because I think that is important. Mrs Bikker asked what exactly is going on when a vo-school has "insufficient" judgment. I also read that there was some concern on that part at Verus. That point has been raised by an amendment from the VVD. The aim of this amendment was that a school of education with the judgment "insufficient" would not be able to establish a new subsidiary. By amending the law, this has thus acquired legal effect. This has therefore been the result of the amendment. The result of the judgment "insufficient" is that a new subsidiary will not be financed by the government, regardless of whether the school wishes to establish a new subsidiary or not. This amendment has therefore made this impossible in the law. In doing so, I assume that the judgment "insufficient" is a decision within the meaning of the General Administrative Law Act and that it is open to objections and appeals. It is, of course, up to the administrative judge to make a final assessment of this, should that ever be submitted to the administrative judge. I think it is also very good that you asked for this and that I was able to say this in this way, because it would indeed be annoying if there were any misunderstandings about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u204	Thank you to the Minister for clarity in this matter. That's taken into account in the history of law, so that's a map. Now I also hear that the legal text may be a bit multi-interpretable, and then I say it nicely. Can the Minister say that what he is saying about this is the law? Or is the legal text still more complicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u205	We understand that you may have to read the legal text a few times, but that also applies to more parts of laws. It's a law for that, too. The wordings as they stand are in line with what I am saying here. I think it is a good thing that I myself have said this in a few other words. Then there was another question about the vog and whether it is powerful or not. We can have a lot of discussion about that, but the fact is that in many places a vog is simply asked and that this is a certain threshold, a sieve, to give an assessment of someone who comes into a certain position. On this point, we have also just agreed to what is common in many places. I am, by the way, working on legislation to sometimes intervene in situations that we find undesirable. I think that the current deadlines for this are sometimes so long that situations persist for a very long time. We think we should be able to act faster. This legislation is also aimed at drivers who are not functioning properly, but are still in preparation. Mr. Chairman. I've already had the invitation. One comment on that. It has been asked whether the region will be involved. Yes, the associations, which are often regionally organised, are involved in the invitation obligation. It is a very good thing that this is happening. Mr. Chairman. Then I want to make the switch to the second block. On the direction-free planning and the reason to offer this space, I have already indicated something in my introductory words. It is very tempting to keep whole historical exhibits. I hope you'll allow me one. There was talk about pacification and that for people who were otherwise unable to do so, space was now also offered towards the schools, for example in Nijkerkerveen and in other places. I myself think that is still very special, and I would like to say to Mrs Sent that Troelstra felt like the great winner of the pacification, because he, with the fact that there was room around the schools and with the right to vote, had taken the double prize. I'm not entirely sure it's true, but I think it's a nice story: after that vote, he went to his office, or some other place, where he was applauded by his faithful. That's kind of the image I have at 1917 and what happened after that. With the direction-free planning we indeed go back a bit back to that time, but with the look ahead, and with other reasons than would have been used at that time. But in a way, there will be more space. That is why the title'more room for new schools' has been chosen. As you have probably seen in the report, I have started to muffle a bit in the House of Representatives, because it may have been very euphoric. It is precisely by making certain demands on the front that we could in practice also reduce the scope for some initiatives. In practice, it will have to be demonstrated how this is going to happen. We really don't think it's gonna happen all of a sudden. Perhaps a small step is being taken up, because some initiatives are still waiting for legislation, but our belief is that this will really be flattened in the long term. There aren't any more kids out of the blue either. In fact, there will be even fewer children, also because of the shrinkage. They must be distributed among the schools. If schools simply function well, there is of course no reason at all, and probably no incentive, to start new schools around those schools. But that will have to be proved in practice. Of course, we are always focused on cooperation, which is more necessary at this time than ever. Mr. Chairman. Segregation is a subject which has been discussed in detail in the Chamber. You had just brought it up a little bit. It is also an issue that concerns me, because it is sometimes so difficult to grasp. Of course, we can say that segregation is increasing. Much of this discussion is often held in education. But if we look at the larger picture of this issue, we can see that there are three things involved. A very important one is how living is handled, so what choices are made in the, with that beautiful word, housing policy. You can see that the colour of the neighborhood in almost all situations is also the color of the school. Here in The Hague there are very nice examples of this. So housing segregation is an important aspect. Then, of course, it is up to the municipalities to draw up policies there. If they think that the neighbourhoods are being put together a little too one-sidedly, to put it this way, you should always pay very much attention to your words on these kinds of subjects, because it can very quickly seem derogatory.... so if they want to have a more mellow composition of their neighborhoods, they have to take an active policy on that. Then you'll also see that it's ringing to the schools. That's one. That's a really important one. The second point is the freedom of choice of parents. I think this is a great thing. I just said something about how parents can look at their kids. When their children go to school, it's important to make good choices. We don't want to get that. So we think that freedom of choice is important. As a cabinet, even in the coalition agreement, we have that freedom expressed as an important thing. We don't want to reduce that freedom. So that freedom of choice remains. The third point, which follows on from this, is the admission policy of the schools. You know I've been a Member of Parliament for almost 15 years. In all these 15 years it has been a subject, and it still is. We are waiting again for a new initiative law. There are even laws on the shelf from a long time ago. In short, this subject burns up every time. Of course, this can also be done in a democracy, because it is something fundamental. This admission policy then focuses very quickly on schools that have a more stringent admission policy. In accordance with our law, that goes even up to our Constitution. The Supreme Court ruled on that. Is that what all the schools use? You have seen that there is a study from 2004, which referred to about 5%. That was then. That has been a reason for me to say in the debate in the House of Representatives: let's go back to conducting a new investigation. I think the figures will be different now. I think it's gonna be less, but that's gonna have to prove it. In June, the investigation will be completed. So that's what we're working on right now. So that's an important thing. The double of the admission policy is that it is sometimes also used there, Mrs Sent started on "Sent" as an instrument to counter segregation, such as in cities like Nijmegen, Amsterdam or Deventer, but it also happens here in The Hague. You'll have a fixed center and a fixed moment of enrollment. You may indicate your first preference, but you must also indicate a second and a third. Very often parents come back at their first preference, but it may be sanding and squeaking. That space is there for municipalities to do so, and sometimes they do so very actively. That sometimes depends on the political colour of the college: the redder that is colored, the more active one is with that kind of thing. But that may also be evident from the list of some, but not all, cities I mentioned. So these are three important, fundamental parts that either determine or can't counteract segregation. Then something else happened. Apologies to anyone who does not belong to the Labour Party, but it was the Labour Party again. Back then, Secretary of State Dijksma, now alderman in Amsterdam, had Balkenende-IV do research on this subject under the famous cabinet. She did pilots. The result of these pilots was that laws and regulations do not prevent segregation. In principle, therefore, it is not a matter of legislation or regulation. Perhaps the one small piece of that strict admission policy would be the solution for some. Well, I'm sure if you take it away, that's really not gonna change the problem of segregation. I think it still stands. I am convinced that I will come to the LEA, for which Mr Ganzevoort has asked a great deal of attention, and rightly so that the key to doing something about this lies with the municipalities. The municipalities must make use of the opportunities they have not only when it comes to education, but also when it comes to housing and everything around it, to ensure that they have the right answers administratively if they notice that segregation is taking place. And that has to be wider than that you so to speak think "if we stop one school or get away, we've solved it," and so on, and so on. So it is really very important to do so at municipal level. That's what we ordered the municipalities to do. Since 2006, it has been a legal obligation to have parties to work with each other on a yearly basis with this Local Educational Agenda. A little to my shame I must admit that we needed Jasper van Dijk from the SP with a motion in the Lower House, which pointed out to the Cabinet that it might not work very well in practice, even though it is a legal obligation, and that it may not have been sufficiently supervised. We had that checked out. The inspection has investigated this. I've seen the first results. The report has not yet been fully completed. It hasn't been definitively established yet, I think, but it's coming soon. It does agree that there is a difference between municipalities: is there a very active approach to this or not? There are even municipalities that skip it for a year or two. May I make a call through you to your fellow party members in all the municipalities to just be sharp on this? We cannot, of course, arrange all this from The Hague. It's gotta be picked up locally. That's very, very, very important to do. I have already started in the Lower House, together with the MPs, especially members of the GroenLinks Chamber, but the SP and others were also involved.It is not just parties on the left who are involved in this.It is not just about whether we can make sure that those alertness, sharpness, clarity and more concrete goals are better picked up. This has at least led to the adoption of this amendment, which we have just discussed in relation to the ex ante review. This means that once the school has received funding, the inspection will continue to work on that point. I have been thinking about what has been said here: what could or could not be done? Mr. Ganzevoort specifically asked about that. I am prepared to ensure that there will really be an integrated policy agenda, because you rightly indicated that it is wider than just education. We will further involve the results of the LEA survey of the inspection. If necessary, this will also apply to the results of Oberon's research into admission policy, which will be published in June. We're going to monitor periodically. So that's not gonna happen once, but we're gonna keep it up. We are going to make a concrete agenda with clear objectives, which, on the basis of the evaluation, always give us the opportunity to engage with the representatives of the municipalities, the Association of Dutch Municipalities, but also with others, such as educational councils, in short, with those involved in the discussion. On that basis, we can see which next steps can be taken each time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u206	Before I give the floor to Mr Pijlman for an interruption, I would like to inform him that I am going to suspend at 7 p.m. for the dinner break, which is a quarter of an hour later than was planned until 7 p.m. Then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u207	The Minister also refers in this area to the role of the municipality. That is what the Empire says very much, on all kinds of social issues: it is the municipality; there have been many decentralisations and this is a task of the municipality. But when it comes to housing, for example, we also know that there are only limited possibilities for the municipality. In short, you come back to the question of what the Empire does itself. You say to GroenLinks: I come with an agenda. But as a Empire, we can actually invest. We can invest to reduce backlogs. Schools in disadvantaged areas should also be able to use the educational resources most needed. Also when it comes to the shortage of teachers, you can imagine giving extra rewards there, because in those disadvantaged areas it is very difficult to get motivated people. I therefore hope that this motivated agenda of yours will include such elements as well. I hope you can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u208	I share that hope. It will indeed have to be wider. Of course, there are sometimes restrictions for municipalities on what they can do. However, we can always focus on the limitations, but we can also say: let's take a look at the possibilities that exist. We'll see that a lot isn't happening right now. Sometimes that doesn't even happen at all. So there's just profit to be made. I have just mentioned the misunderstanding that it was thought that school promoters could decide where to place them. No. You can make policy on that. In short, we have much more in our hands. We're also working on the Equal Opportunities Alliance. This is a growing group of municipalities that receive financial support from the Empire, and in which also very nice initiatives take place. We support the vo-schools in relation to vulnerable pupils; they can sometimes employ extra people for that. In short, there is a wide palette, but it is very fragmented. That is why I think it can help if you create a rather specific agenda that is precisely about this. I think it can have added value if it isn't wrapped up in odds and all kinds of other things, but if you do that very specifically. I would at least like to give that a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u209	I welcome that commitment. I do not want to be negative about this, but I do have two comments to make. As far as the LEA is concerned, it is nice that the research is going on, but a State of Education has just appeared in which the inspection says that it is difficult to test and so on. At the point where things really need to be made more measurable, I think there is a profit to be made. That therefore raises the question of how the inspection can better guarantee the agreement on this matter. If we make very nice arrangements in an LEA and they are not kept or are so vague that no one can do anything with them, then of course that is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u210	That's right. The obligation to LEA is in the WPO and in the WVO; if you want the articles, I can also give them to you. So that's what we really secured. The point is, however, that it should ultimately be given substance in practice. Because it is sometimes not, or very generally, filled in, it is of course more difficult for the inspection to monitor it properly. It therefore needs to be more results-oriented. We will have to make what needs to be in it more concrete. Then the inspection will be much better able to monitor it and signal it if it does not go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u211	Thank you. But that's where I'm looking for a little more concreteity. Then I find it a little too easy to say: call on your partymates to arrange that locally. We are talking about legislation here. We are talking here about the frameworks that are being set. There's a law that municipalities and schools have to abide by. So my question is: how is this minister going to work not only with this broad agenda, which I welcome and appreciate, but also with that supervisory framework and so on? How do we ensure that what appears to be already in the law also happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u212	We will need to give more guidance at national level to the results-oriented agreements to be made in the LEA. That's very important. They could have something to do with the login moments. A lot of municipalities are already very far in that, but a lot of them aren't. Those may have to do with insight into the socio-economic status of the pupils. They may also have to do with the expenses that are incurred. Around the parental contribution, which has also been incorporated into the law, there is an initiative proposal that I think will also clarify. I believe that this is still to be dealt with in your Chamber, but the House of Representatives has already passed. In short, we will have to make good agreements at national level with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and with the Councils. Then we're gonna have to fill it up and follow it, and reset it if we need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u213	I am indeed looking for this concreteization. How do we get churches and schools moving? There is one point that I am right about and that can also be included in the research. In the State of Education, it is said, among other things, that the way of financing makes it very complicated for municipalities to pursue active policies in this area of segregation. I would like to ask the Minister's specific attention on this point: if so, let's see how we solve that bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u214	I think there's really two sides to it. One is that municipalities should be alert. Hence my appeal that you can also do through your local representatives to simply set this up and work with each other, on the basis of the situation in the local community, which, of course, one has no other view. On the other hand, it is also true that it will be very difficult to keep a close eye on it, if we all keep it a little vague with each other. I think I just said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u215	The last question, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u216	Sure, but that's just not an answer to my question. The inspection points out that there are problems in the financing structure that the municipalities are not able to steer sufficiently in this respect. My question is to take a serious look at this and to solve problems, if there are any.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u217	Then you are referring to the funding of the schools. We're talking about the education inspection. He's watching the schools, of course. It may be concluded that there are insufficient resources to meet certain objectives. Then, of course, the inspection will also have to report on this. Moreover, we know that funds are often widely distributed and that it is also a choice of a school in how it is distributed among the different subjects. Anyway, I think your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u218	Then Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u219	I would also like to respond to the broad agenda announced by the Minister on the issue of segregation. That is also very important for my group. One of the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives is Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks' amendment on agreements relating to segregation. I think that was initially also dissuaded by the Minister, but well, I want to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u220	That's also what "judge chamber" got.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u221	Oh, judgment room? Excuse me. That's good. But I'd like to get on with it. My colleague from GroenLinks was trying to get this point concretely. In the written questions GroenLinks asked, among other things, to what extent these agreements are taken into account in the assessment of a new application. The Minister's answer to this is that the inspection only looks in a stimulating way, prior to the start of the school. It is therefore not a test that determines whether or not the school will be funded. For the sake of clarity, this answer still stands, I suppose. So that broad agenda doesn't change anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u222	I have just given a rather detailed answer to this when I was talking about the municipality's view. I talked about "the two baskets." Perhaps that remark will give us a reminder of that part of my reply. The first part is the adequacy requirements. They're pretty sturdy, with a legal basis. Then you have the other elements of quality. This has been added by amendment. This is thus also used by the inspection in the interviews with initiators. In this sense, it can also work reasonably steering towards further effects for the moment that a school can finally start. For this part, the LEA and its obligations from the moment of funding directly change into a need for equity. This gives the inspection even more opportunities to deal with sanctions if a school fails to comply with them. With regard to combating segregation, we are now ensuring that the possibilities that exist with regard to the LEA from the municipalities and from the schools are much better taken up. It's getting more concrete and more direct. This simply offers opportunities to make a contribution from education in that larger whole of segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u223	I have heard the Minister correctly, also with regard to 'the second basket'. But that therefore means that I just want to get all sharp and clear for a moment. When it comes to segregation, something can only be done afterwards, and not beforehand. In other words, schools that could lead to more dichotomy between low-chance and high-chance with this "Law more room for new schools" could be established, without anything being done in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u224	If the legal requirements are met and the longer-term forecasts can also be demonstrated that there is a basis for existence, then the ship can indeed get off the ground. But that does not mean that all kinds of other things that are also important are not being taken into account. In fact, they get attention even before that formal decision is taken. They are also directly taken up in the framework of the supervision that will take place after the start of a school. In addition, I have also noted the following. If such elements are in the view of the municipality, they will have their effect in two places, namely at DUO and at the inspection. Eventually, it could end up with a minister. Eventually, a minister still has room to give a different opinion, sometimes different from that given opinion, although this will often have a legal effect. But that is also the case in the current situation. This could perhaps be a subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u225	Finally, Mr President. I would like to say that prevention is better than cure. I note that the current legislative proposal, including the commitments made by the Minister, does not provide sufficient instruments for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u226	Mr President, I would like to make one more point. When I look at the proposal we are discussing here and at the law that is currently the basis for starting schools, I see a huge difference. It does not pay any attention to this. It's not a subject. You can still be under foundation standards for years, while you can maintain a school. There is no supervision of the drivers. The quality is not being looked at. This does not happen until a financing decision has been taken. Then I find what we are doing here, also in the context of segregation, a real world of difference. I understand you might want to go further into that. But I think it's a world of difference compared to the current situation. And because it is a much broader problem than just education, I see very good points of departure to work with such an integrated agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u227	Minister, we're still working on the subject of segregation, I think. Then we'll get public education after this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u228	I've had a lot of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u229	I'll take a look around. I can suspend now. How much longer do you think it'll take to complete it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u230	I still have a few loose questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u231	- Quarter? - Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u232	Maybe ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u233	Does the House agree that we should allow this to continue? Ten more minutes and then we'll suspend for dinner break. Then we should not get too many interruptions, because then I prefer to suspend at 7:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u234	Well, one. With the SP I am deeply concerned about the hardness of all this attention to segregation. I think it's too much "part of a conversation," "we're going to test it" and "after." So I'm not reassured yet. But perhaps the Minister can help me a little by setting out examples of situations where the present bill or the creation of new schools can reduce segregation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u235	I have just indicated that choosing a school is a responsibility that lies with citizens and with parents. If they do not see a school in their environment that meets their wishes, then if they want to, there is the room to take an initiative with this bill, even if they do not belong to a direction. In the demands we make, this means that it will have to be schools that meet our legal standards. And then you can make a contribution and start as soon as a municipality has arranged the accommodation for that. I have just indicated that the municipality can make the choice in which place a school is located. And one is also obliged to act together with the other parties in the city or village where one works, or even in a region when it comes to a partnership. There is an obligation to take responsibility for the objectives involved. Thus, the LEA with the equality of opportunity and with the fight against segregation is also part of that. We will therefore have to make a contribution to this. In fact, if we do not do so, we are in violation and an inspection may take place against it. So one simply becomes part of a larger whole and one also has to make a contribution and not stand by each other's backs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u236	I am just trying to establish the link between the beginning of the Minister's speech, which was an hour and a half ago or so and now, on the theme of segregation. Do I understand correctly that there is in fact no legal provision in the current law that allows you to deal with segregation and that you argue that there are elements in the forthcoming law that respond better to this than in the old situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u237	The current legislation of the WPO and the WVO does contain obligations to contribute to a subject such as combating segregation. But in the law that is now before us, there is something that is not in the old law: new schools are asked to clarify how they are going to comply with whatever later becomes a legal obligation, namely that Local Educational Agenda. This is already part of the fight against inequality of opportunity and segregation. The point is, it doesn't work everywhere right now. But it is a legal obligation. In this sense, therefore, we are making a connection in the law: we need to make clear how one is going to relate to something that is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u238	I would like to say to the Minister that the push must not only lie with political parties, but perhaps can also be found with the UNG and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u239	Sure. They are also actively involved. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm going to close with the questions that have been asked about the present time when it comes to equality, segregation and the corona situation. A large number of questions have been asked. Very briefly. We have been moving right from the moment the schools closed, 15 March, because we realized that this could be a situation for some children where the backlogs, which they might already have, would only increase. Looking at the p.o. We know from research that about 15% is in that category. We were afraid that the delays would only increase if we lost sight of them for a long time. A lot of effort has been made on that. It was not possible to get all children in the picture right away, but I am deeply impressed by what schools have done together with the municipalities in order to do so in the end. I am also deeply impressed by how they set up this distance education. We have also contributed to this from the government by making devices available. There were also many private entrepreneurs, for example, 2% of the Dutch population did not have a Wi-Fi connection that would have made that connection happen. Otherwise it's nice that you've gotten something, a tablet or a laptop, but then you can't do that much with it. I am working on a somewhat larger plan that could be ready this week or next week to get there for the short term and the long term, where I also use the advice of the Education Council to ensure that schools are supported, including in the financial sense, in order to simply eliminate the deficits that arise. Summer schools are indeed mentioned in that context. They are not mandatory, but in large cities they are already there. This is already basically an infrastructure that can also be used and enlarged to ensure that you reach and help children in a good and accessible way. But also in the next course year we will really be working on that. So that's a bigger plan we're working on. That is indeed important, because these kinds of moments can only make the existing gaps even bigger. It must be a great pleasure for us to work together to prevent this from happening. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u240	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I have a question that has been asked by Mrs Bikker. It may be widely believed that on 27 June 1995 Mr Hirsch Ballin made his maiden speech in the Knight's Room. I am also looking at the Registrar as a member of the First Chamber on the legislative proposal Amendment of the General Administrative Law Act and other laws. He found that there is room in the Dutch curriculum state and administrative law to introduce it there. I'm suspending the meeting for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u241	We now have the second term on the part of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u242	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Adriaans on her maiden speech, because it was her turn. I was already jealous that she could do that here, but now I am also jealous because of the beautiful content she brought in. We have had a nice and, I think, a debate of principle. It was about very concrete practical questions, but also about the fundamental questions that lie behind them. It was about the whole system, about the changes we are seeing in the relationship between public and special education, how the system is developing and what would help it today. The direction that is in it, that when we start new schools we steer less towards direction and more towards quality, fits well with the way we look at the matter. I will be very brief, because I had asked a number of very specific questions. So let me check again what the Minister said on those four specific questions and what we would like to hear. We have asked for a commitment to strengthen the role of the municipality's view, without making it impossible to establish a school, so as to be able to adjust matters in the process of applications. I would like to ask the Minister more specifically to give us this point about the municipality's view and the role that the inspection and DUO have to assess and take into account in their weighting. It must therefore also be objectively ensured that it is not the discretion of the Minister himself, but that that view is really important in the inspection and DUO when it comes to segregation. If he would like to give that a commitment on that point, that would reassure us a little bit more. We welcome the commitment on that broad agenda against segregation. I would just like to refer to the issue of funding. The inspection has been written on page 73 of the State of Education, and I would like to point out once again that, because of the financing structure, the municipalities cannot use resources for effective anti-segregation policies. If municipalities can't actually do that, just because of those structures, then I think we should see if there's a bottleneck in there that we could take away. So I asked the Minister whether he would like to include that particular point in his broader approach as a possible piece of solution. We look forward to that broad agenda against segregation. The third point was about the LEA and how to ensure it better. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would also like to bring this to the attention of municipalities in consultation with the VNG. We should not only do this through the political lines, because we are also out of touch here and with our own responsibility to review laws. The Minister is ultimately also responsible for that whole system. So I'm asking him to take that up with the VNG. He also talked about a repeated theme research so I translate it just for a moment from the inspection at the point of segregation. We are also pleased that he has promised to do so, if I may interpret it that way. Finally, I asked about the whole immediate situation and the corona measures. It is good to hear what is happening in this area and also in broader planning. When something is on paper, we are also very interested in receiving it from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u243	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mrs Adriaansens of the VVD on her maiden speech, because I too was in favour of her maiden speech and only now have the opportunity to congratulate her. I would like to thank the Minister for the passion and patience with which he has answered the questions. I would also like to express my appreciation once again for the teachers who, in these very difficult times, teach two adolescents in my case. They put the teacher's microphone on mute when he's on MS Teams. In these times, therefore, I have an extra appreciation for the teachers. For the PvdA, schools should reflect society. That calls for pluralism within schools. On the other hand, the present legislative proposal encourages more pluralism between schools. "That's why it better have'more space for segregation' as a title," I quote the VOO and the VOC/ABB. For the record, the legislative proposal contains a number of potentially good elements. The Minister has clearly emphasised this in his contribution. Those elements relate to the introduction of a prior test on quality requirements, the possibility of directly measuring parents' interest and the possibility of adding segregation as a subject of discussion to the application procedure. However, my group considers these improvements to be soft. The pre-test threatens to be only a paper reality. The measurement of parents' interest is completely non-binding. A conversation and a monitoring framework afterwards are no guarantee against segregation. That's why we're judging them mostly as bumps in the reeds. In the context of falling numbers of pupils, the bill is a move in the wrong direction. Also in the context of choice stress or sometimes even lack of freedom of choice, the present legislative proposal is not moving in the right direction. However, the proposal before us does not solve the problem of segregation, but it is potentially contributing to this. That's why I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. In theory, education should be the great equalizer. In practice, education has become more and more unequal. The proposal before us does not solve this problem. Worse, it threatens to strengthen it because the conditions I have passed before are butter soft. Supported by the opinions of the VO Council, the VOO, the VOC/ABB, the Education Council, the Scientific Council for Government Policy and many experts who have also been heard in the Second Chamber, I will therefore advise my group to vote against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mrs Adriaansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u246	They're doing a good job here, Mr. Chairman. My compliments on that. Also a compliment to the Minister for how passionately he defends the bill here. It is also inspiring to see how everything has been well thought out and that this law is not a solution for everything either. We don't have to settle everything in this law. It is a step forward, as I said in my first term. Theoretically it may be that at the start of a school we have not seen everything or that the plans are not carried out as they were discussed or intended. If the consequences are great, it could mean we have to quit school. My group is therefore in favour of looking critically at the evaluation in how many cases this is actually going on, because at some point we must also take a step towards improving the provision of education. On the risk of segregation, the second point, you have said the necessary. I agree with Mr Ganzevoort's remark that the improvements may be in the view and in the firmer setting, because there is a puzzle there. At the time when the Minister will use the critical consideration given in the view for his rejection, followed by a legal procedure, the rejection may be overruled too easily. We don't want to. So the question is whether you can make this more robust, not directly with this law but perhaps in the direction of inspection or through other possibilities. Designing public values is more than civic education sec. Social integration is also part of this. That's what I said in my first term. In my view, the question remains open as to how far we can ensure that education is also a binding factor in society. There has been much talk of intervention at the time when there is unsound administration or culpable action by directors. If it's on the agenda, we need to intervene. But there is also a positive aspect of governance: when there is good governance, it often also indicates that there is good quality. I would like to hear from the Minister how much he is encouraging this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u247	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the boss for cleaning up. I thank the Minister for answering our questions. I don't think the Minister has answered one question yet. There is now a legislative proposal that will give even more room for the establishment of special schools, of special education. Can he explain once again why he does not agree with our group on the principle that public-funded education should also be accessible to the public, i.e. to the general public? That seems to me to be a very logical way of thinking. I didn't hear the Minister say anything about that. I'd like to ask him if he can do that after all. Then I come to the bill itself, but it is related to the previous point. This brings me back to the interesting debate we have had, to which Mr Ganzevoort rightly referred. In the explanatory statement, we read that the starting point of the legislative proposal is that parents and pupils are entitled to education that matches their identity. I think that the answer given by the Minister clearly shows that this is indeed the starting point. The problem that this law has to solve is that there were my questions about....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is also the guiding idea behind today's much-discussed illustrious Article 23. If my party were to be able to reorganise the education system, we would not have chosen that point of departure. Let that be clear. We would not, therefore, opt for Article 23. An important starting point for us would be that parents and pupils should have the right to good and high quality education and universal access, education in which multiple identities and multiple cultures come together, education in which children come from different environments and backgrounds. Living together is learning together. I think that's a nice slogan, including from the Public Education Association. And... Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u249	Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u250	I'm gonna get up anyway. Because in the ideal image of the SP, it's like it's not right now. But in the majority of special education, the vast majority, at least 95%, there is no admission policy. You see there take the Protestant school on which my own little children are sitting, Muslim children come and children who are poor and children who are rich. Is the SP really turning the right buttons to counter segregation? Or, for example, does it have to do with housing, with the choices made in the big cities? I still want to mirror, because I found the ideal image of the SP pushing a little too much, as if the pacification was the beginning of the segregation. I don't agree with the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u251	I thank Mrs Bikker for this interesting question. I could do a lot of reflection on it. It is certainly true that segregation is a much major problem than just something that can be traced back to Article 23 or to our education at all. Housing also plays an important role, as well as inequality of opportunity. It has to do with all kinds of socio-economic factors and with the way in which we have organized our economy. Of course, there are a lot of special schools that are mixed, with pupils from different backgrounds as well. That is undoubtedly true. I myself am a professor at a higher education institution based on special education. We also have a very mixed student population. But that does not alter the fact that the basic idea of 'every group of parents and pupils is entitled to a school that fits their own identity' is, in my opinion, basically a thought that is based on a certain segregation. Of course, we have seen that in the past. Because in the past we had organized Catholic education, Protestant education and so on, all in separate columns. Mrs Bikker may have positive thoughts on this, but I think there are doubts about that. In the meantime, it has been watered down quite a bit and I think that dilution is a good thing. May I comment on another point made by Mrs Bikker? She talked about access to special education. I've heard that before. This was also changed in the Lower House. I hear those who are passionately defending Article 23 say: in practice that is not a problem at all, because all these special schools do not have such an admission policy at all; they just allow all pupils. This applies at least to 95% of special schools. But if it is not such a problem, why not turn this good principle into a policy and modernise Article 23 in that sense? That seems to me to be a logical conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u252	Today, Article 23 will be modernised if this law is adopted. But I just didn't hear the SP positive about that. A second point is that, as in Mr Van Apeldoorn's plea, parents do indeed choose the best for their children. They therefore seek the education that fits in with their search for what is good in life. However, the removal of the one, which Mr Van Apeldoorn advocates, does not mean that the other segregation, which we both have concerns about, is resolved. On the contrary, unless we are going to force parents to drive their children in the baking bike, on the back of the bike or on the moped across the city and we bring children to other schools. So it's a bit of a makeability idea that sounds nice on paper, but which in reality isn't convenient, unless you want to apply coercion. I'll pass for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u253	Thank you to Mrs Bikker for this point. In response, I think this is what's happening. I fully agree with Mrs Bikker that, if we were to remove Article 23 from the Constitution, I would not have said that it should be done now; Mr Bikker says that if we were to be able to reorganise the education system, it would not be included in it, and this would not solve the problem of segregation in general. If you're talking about inequality of opportunity, it takes a lot more than that. I'm just saying that there's a certain sense of segregation behind Article 23. I think that is inherent in that. I've identified that as potentially problematic. My second comment concerns the legislative proposal before us today. Mrs Bikker says it is a modernisation of Article 23. I don't think you can modernise a constitutional article by means of an ordinary law. You'd have to change the Constitutional article for that yourself. That is what my group would be in favour of. That is what we have said before. What we have before us today is an interpretation of Article 23, which, as far as I am concerned, is an extension of Article 23. My group considers this to be totally undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u254	It is nice that Mr Van Apeldoorn explains Mrs Bikker some state law. That always helps, because we know that she's not very... well, she's kind of educated. No, I do not think it is so much a question of modernising Article 23 as such, but rather of the way in which it has subsequently been shaped in substantive legislation. This is now being developed. Tonight I wanted to point out from a historical perspective that the word'segregation' is now going to mean a lot of different things. I don't think that's convenient. Mr Van Apeldoorn himself mentioned the Free University. The same applies to Radboud University, where Mrs. Sent works. These are ideally two places that, because of their own identity, made a huge contribution to the emancipation and with the emancipation of a disadvantaged part of the population, ultimately made a huge contribution to integration. The fact that you sometimes organize things separately does not mean that by definition you promote segregation. It can also contribute to integration. I think it's important that we look at that. Today we live in a different time than a hundred years ago. We live in a different time than when these two universities were founded and a lot of schools. We are now living in a time when those directions play a less important role. If there is now a proposal to allow these directions to play a less significant role in new schools, I ask whether this is not something that would be ideally suited to the way in which the SP would like to organise its education. I just don't understand the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u255	Special education has sometimes, even in the past, actually had an emancipating function. For example, look at the university of mine and Mr. Ganzevoort, founded by Abraham Kuyper for the emancipation of the little luyden. I'll be the first to confirm that. However, at the same time, I am talking about a number of decades ago: the division of our educational country into different columns has sometimes worked emancipatingly, but in a number of cases it has also been very hard for a lot of pupils who have had that education, because they did not come into contact with people of other beliefs or backgrounds, or were told: those people are not good because they are of the wrong faith. So at least there are two sides to the case. I seem to have provoked a whole discussion on Article 23. That in itself is not bad at all, but we are concerned that, if you voted for this law, you would increase Article 23 in such a way that there will be more room for new schools, which could very well lead to further segregation and division, especially along socio-economic divisions. I think Mr Ganzevoort shares that concern with me. That is why, through the President, I say to the Minister and to Mr Ganzevoort that this law is inadequate. The law contains a number of good elements, but does not provide us with sufficient certainty on that crucial point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u256	I'm puzzled on what you say, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I believe, but I would like to be corrected by people who know a great deal about state law, that Article 23 is being restored. The changes we have made to lower laws will be deleted again. It is interpreted again as it was originally intended. But that aside. In my view, this law is doing exactly what you are trying to do, namely to give room for innovation and adaptation to society. That's a positive thing. So we don't think from a certain ivory tower in columns that we designed on a piece of paper, historically formed and perhaps over time changed, everything to its value. We are once again giving society the space to do something with it. I do not know if every individual has the right to education to his taste. That has the risk in itself, in my opinion, that is a different discussion that could possibly arise as a promotion of segregation at the time when you are not doing it in a good way. I think we're having a debate about doing it in a good way. But I do not think that this law as such promotes segregation is what we are discussing now, at least not as I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u257	I would like to say to Mrs Adriaansen that we can have a long discussion about the correct interpretation and what was the original intention of Article 23. I can go along with the idea that it goes back in a sense to the original Article 23 and the freedom of education in that sense. But if that is translated today by this minister into that every group of parents and pupils is entitled to education that fits their own identity, I have just argued that I have my doubts about that. When it comes to the modern interpretation that is now before us, I think that it is not true that special education is not good or that there are not many very good special educational institutions where pupils from different backgrounds come together and education can be emancipating. But Mrs Adriaansen is talking about a changing society. I think we're in a society much more secular than 50 or 100 years ago. Views of life play a less important role in education. Parents like to make choices based on, for example, pedagogical concepts and the way in which education is given. I do not think that is a bad development at all. In fact, I think it's a good development. But I would say that for that we do not necessarily need this legislative amendment, because even now there is that possibility. Public schools can also opt for certain educational concepts. I think that's a good thing. I have said before that I can go along with the idea that it is not up to the government to decide which direction is worthy of recognition and that we should leave it open. That idea behind this bill on which direction deserves recognition or not, I can very well follow. But then, and that remains my point, we need to make sure that we are sure that it will not lead to more segregation and division. That may not always be the case, and I am not saying that either, but let us make sure that we check that out in advance. And that is what does not happen in this bill, at least not enough. An amendment was tabled to that effect in the House of Representatives, which was subsequently not adopted. That segregation check isn't in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u258	A brief final question, Mrs Adriaansens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u259	Yeah, a short reaction. I don't think there's any guarantee in advance. I believe that this is also an important vision of life. I don't think there can be that certainty. We are looking for safeguards so that we exclude as many risks as possible from what we might know at the front. If we find each other at that point, I understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u260	You will never get security in life, but analyses show that the concerns of all those public education organisations, the PO-Council and so on, which Mr Sent has also mentioned several times, are indeed based on something and that you are running a great risk of it leading to more division, to all kinds of lock-up schools or target groups schools. You can prevent that in a simple way by saying: at the moment when such an application is submitted, the education inspector can look into it and check whether the expectation is that it will lead to more segregation. If the latter is the case, she can reject the application and if it does not lead to more segregation and hopefully less segregation, it can go on and that new school can be founded. In those circumstances, we would think more positively about this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u261	I'm a little surprised. On the one hand I hear Mr Van Apeldoorn say that the goals of this law, so more room for different things other than just philosophical and religious beliefs, are now possible in this law, but he always focuses his story on segregation, which I understand in itself. In the Minister's first term, I understand that this bill can do more to segregation than the current legislation. As beautiful as this Chamber may be, no minister will come here with a law that suddenly solves the whole problem of segregation, but here is a minister who will at least take steps to deal with segregation better than with the current legislation. Isn't that a consideration for you to look at the good things of this law after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u262	Of course, I am always willing to look at the good aspects of a legislative proposal as well. I think I did the same in the first term. I have also mentioned a number of points, such as improved supervision of drivers and the pre-quality test. We certainly consider that to be a gain, but we consider that to be insufficient in all respects. Mr Schalk is now saying that this legislative proposal is more aimed at combating segregation than would otherwise have been the case, but I would venture to dispute that. The proposals made by Minister Slob when it comes to countering segregation are made in relation to this bill. As the associations of public education have said on several occasions, this bill creates more room for segregation. So on the one hand, you have a bill that creates more room for segregation, which carries a high risk of more segregation and more division, and at the same time we are going to try to do something about it through the commitments made by the Minister and what has been exchanged here in the debate, in terms of agreements, a broad agenda and so on. So on the one hand you magnify a problem and on the other hand you try to mitigate it again. In our view, this mitigation is not enough. I will come back to that in just two minutes and 49 seconds, but I do not think that you can say that we suddenly have all the instruments in our hands to counter segregation when we did not have it before. Because you're actually saying, with this bill, it might be that new schools are coming up that will encourage segregation and division, and then we're going to try to do something about it afterwards. I think that's a whole different order of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u263	Mr Schalk, one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u264	I note that Mr Van Apeldoorn actually chooses to say: do not do this law. But then you will remain in the old situation, where at least the Minister has argued that there would be greater segregation than with this new legislation. Mr Van Apeldoorn's speech is so focused on this segregation that I would almost say: at least take the profits you can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u265	Mr Van Apeldoorn. Then continue your speech immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u266	I think I have just said to Mr Schalk that I am not convinced of that reasoning. We are now in a situation of segregation and division, but it is not that if we do not adopt this bill, the segregation and division will increase. No, the opposite is the case as far as my group is concerned. I believe that this is also clear from any further analysis of the legislative proposal and its possible consequences. I shall continue my speech, Mr President. I have just said that, as a SP Group, we can very well follow the following reasoning in principle. We have Article 23, which is the freedom of education. Apart from what you think of that and apart from the whole history, where there are good but also less beautiful sides to it, we have just debated it by interrupting for a moment. We can follow that you say: we leave that direction; we do not leave it up to the government to determine that. We can follow that thought, although we could still continue to wonder whether it would always lead to an enrichment of the educational landscape and not lead to unwanted fragmentation. But that is a debate we have already had. But the most important thing I shall come back to again is that my group believes that if you choose to let go of that direction and you no longer let the government determine it, you will ensure that more room for new schools does not lead to more room for segregation and an increasing division between the high and low chances in primary and secondary education. I repeat that my group regards this risk as a major one with this legislative proposal. The Minister has not reassured us on this point, as I have just pointed out to Mr Ganzevoort and other colleagues. A commitment has been made to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. As far as we are concerned, that is in the spirit of agreement, of consultation. This is not sufficiently binding and binding. It's an improvement. I welcome that commitment in itself. But I repeat Mr Sent's words: in the end it is all rather soft, not to say butter soft. Finally, Mr President. What remains unchanged is that there will be no review, no segregation check, as I said earlier in the brief interruptive debate I had with the Minister. This does not remove our concerns and the danger of an increase in segregation, especially in the socio-economic field, and that, at a time when this has already been referred to, the coronavirus has mercilessly exposed the already existing division and inequality in education between pupils. Partly in this context, I must say that I am disappointed with this bill. I will advise my group to vote against next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u267	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Doornhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u268	Mr. Chairman. You do that with pleasure: listen to a minister who speaks with such passion about the freedom of education. He called it one of the greatest achievements of parliamentary history. In my first term, I said that my group therefore thinks it is such a good legislative proposal, because the wording of Article 23 is correct. We can also take the authority argument off the table because the Section has also said so many words of advice. I must say that I have also listened with great interest to the contributions of the other groups. I have already mentioned Mrs Adriaansen. I can very much appreciate it if colleagues speak a little less enthusiastically about Article 23 than the Minister and my group do, but they do see what the result of this legislative proposal is. Are we all gonna get a little further on this? Mr. Chairman. The Minister stressed that in this law, too, the test of citizenship education is in advance. He called that a demand that's in his first basket. I did, however, point out in my speech that there should be an extra boost in terms of citizenship education. This is confirmed by the fact that the Minister himself submitted a legislative proposal clarifying citizenship mandate on the other side, precisely in order to deal with abuses. We also refer to the example put forward in the debate between the Minister and Mr Nanninga. The Minister does say: yes, if I am going to apply this new law, I have to base myself on the current law in terms of pre-trial and civic education; I cannot do that with due regard for that Law clarifying citizenship assignment. That is why I would like to ask the Minister whether it is wise that you should now make it more possible for school promoters to start a school, without using the enhanced demands for citizenship. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u269	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I call Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, we are working on the compliments to the staff of the Eerste Kamer for the professional organisation and the good care. That should be mentioned for a while. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Minister for his inspiring, well, at least enthusiastic presentation and defense of this Law more space for new schools. However, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that his intention is to be commended, but that the intentions of this law and its implementation may differ from one another in practice. Mrs Sent has already mentioned this, in particular the socio-economic problems, but nevertheless. My group is concerned about this difference between the practice and the intention, the intention and the practicality of the law. The following questions I have to the Minister will explain. Question one: to what extent does the new legislation change anything in terms of enforcement and effective sanctioning as regards the funding, closure of the school or even a grounds for refusal of authorisation? The second question I have left. In his reply to the Chamber, the Minister says that there are fewer possibilities for the education inspection when it comes to quality standards. But in particular, is the quality of the content of education at a school not a factor in determining whether or not a school complies with the law? I am talking about teaching content that threatens our freedom, our values and our democratic rule of law. The third question. In his reply, the minister mainly talks about socio-economic segregation and says that the government, but also the municipalities, are pursuing a firm policy on this issue. He explicitly addressed Mrs Sent: the redder a municipality, the more active it is. In the Minister's reply, the PVV lacked the ideological conviction of this segregation, in particular through Islamization. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether, even in the case of segregation because of ideological belief, this policy is being pursued by the cabinet. Does this also apply: the redder a municipality, how more active it is? Finally, my final question, Mr President. The Minister talks about an integrated policy agenda when it comes to socio-economic segregation. Does the Minister also mean "integral policy" policy in segregation as a result of Islamisation of education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u271	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I once stood as a schoolmaster, director of a school, at the blackboard with a kid about 9, 10 years old next to me. He confided in me that he wanted to come to our school because at his last school his only friend was the trash can. That is, of course, a sad remark. He always had to sit in front of the class because he might have been a little ADHD-like. It was a reformatorical school and his parents didn't do anything to anything, as they say, or they didn't have a Christian background. But that kid was very welcome, of course. Once I was chairman of a school board in a place with 25 or 28 primary schools. There was a somewhat stricter admission policy than at that first school. In either case, I haven't met any problems. That is the strength of Article 23. Mr. Chairman. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb een paar vragen die ik nog niet beantwoord had gekregen van de minister.]] I had asked whether there was actually some sort of accumulation of the law on future educational provision and cooperation school, and whether that cooperation school actually works. We'd get a feedback from that one more time. Secondly, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister has made it clear that the view that a municipality can make at a school does not mean that that municipality should interfere with the content of education; that is really up to the inspection. I would like the Minister to comment on the part of the debate we have just had on segregation. Is it or is it not the case that the new law as it stands offers more opportunities to deal with segregation? My final point is that I thought it was very important that the Minister made it clear that this law does not take an advance on the accessibility issue. If that were the case, it would be very difficult for my group to support this bill. Now that that is not the case, my group will support this draft law, particularly as it provides for a wider application of Article 23, the freedom of education. Why is that so important? Perhaps because of the very passionate remark made by the Minister at the beginning of his speech, which I wrote immediately. It was about why we have educational freedom. That is because parents are responsible for the most precious gift they have received, namely their children. We want to provide them with the best possible education, now and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u273	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister mentioned in his charm offensive towards Mrs Sent............................................................................................................................................................................. He said, "I don't know if it's completely historic." No, I don't know either, but it might be nice to point out that to the left of the throne is a very beautiful Frisian poem of this great poet too. His collected work is still very much readable. It also shows that the Netherlands is a very atonement-minded country, because in 1918 Troelstra went wrong for a while. But this aside, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank you very much for your clear, convincing and inspired speech. You have also shown that you are extremely motivated to get this proposal through the Senate. It was just cited by the CDA colleague, but you even said that you found Article 23 one of the greatest achievements of our parliamentary history. Then I thought, "Would this be a government statement or is this Slob and his background?" I think the latter, but I don't blame you. In my first instance, I very much addressed the role of Article 23. I have indicated the positive aspects, but also the less positive ones to my liking. I sincerely believe that it should be modernised. We think that further fragmentation of education towards direction is absolutely undesirable, but neither does this proposal; let me be clear about that. It just nuances the principle of direction. That's an important fact. For us, it is extremely important that the quality requirements are reviewed in advance and then again. In my question, you have made a clear commitment that all six criteria of quality standards must be met before you can start a school. I didn't know it was actually an initiative of the PVV. I don't know if the PVV in this Chamber did, but I'm assuming the PVV rewards this bill. We've been thinking a lot about segregation. It's a concern we all share in this room. The Minister pointed out general accessibility and admission policy. Yeah, 95% versus only 5%: that can be true. Perhaps the research in June has shown that it is even less, but not everything has been said. General accessibility may also exist on paper, but the organisation of education may then be such that it does not actually exist. But we very much appreciate what you have said in this debate: we have a broad agenda to counter this segregation. This is about accessibility, but it is also about housing policy. It's about fighting disadvantage. But it's also about parents' freedom of choice. In relation to Article 23, this is also an extremely important point. We don't have to go around that either. I don't remember by whom, but it has been said: what else do we want? Do we want to force children to...? No, I don't think anyone here wants that. But you'll have to deal with that. Then I hope that this broad agenda will be accompanied by an investment programme that will help to create equal opportunities through unequal investment. I hope you will make another commitment on that. In short, schools that need this most should be given the opportunity to give children optimal opportunities. Thank you also for your commitment to do something extra in the short term for the children who have been hit by the corona crisis. That's extraordinary. I also hope that we will be able to look forward to your initiative in the field of citizenship education, which is very essential for the coming years, in this period of the cabinet. At one point, I'm disappointed. That was me in the written rounds we exchanged in committee. It is certainly also related to this bill. That is Article 23 (4). Here's what I asked you. It is very clear and clear that it is the responsibility of the government to ensure, through the municipality, that there is sufficient general education. That's what it says. You answer that in the same way twice: it's always 70-30, so nothing's wrong. Today you didn't go into it at all. But if we take Article 23 seriously, then we also take this paragraph seriously. And then I ask again: how do you, responsible for this article, assess whether this article is being complied with? What is there to speak with congregations? Is it true that, when a new school is founded in a new district, priority is given to generally accessible public education, to give an example? It's not right now. Or are we just gonna let it go? But I note that this underlines even more the need to modernise Article 23. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u275	Thank you, Mr. Arrowman. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with all the complimentary words that have already been said about the excellent preparation of this day and about the good care, to the ever-cleaning of this cathedral. Thank you. Thanks to the Minister for his passionate response with good, clear attention to the historical bed of Article 23 and the needs of this time, and his wonderful words about the great gift that children mean in the lives of parents and the right that parents have to seek for them the good, even if they choose education for their children. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I considered what, as far as I am concerned, are the two key elements of freedom of education: the involvement of parents and children in education, and the pluralism of our society reflected by precisely that freedom of education. On both points, I have a single thought which I would like to share here and submit to the Minister. Yes, the advent of freedom of education meant an end to the social issue. So it was celebrated here in 1920 in the broad. But we are facing a new challenge. I think we can feel them here, Chamber-wide, even if we choose different solutions; that has also been shown. At the same time, this Minister shows: I have ambition on this and I choose a broad agenda. I would like to thank him for the commitment made initially to Mr Ganzevoort, but also to all of us afterwards, because this whole Chamber is involved in how that takes shape. I would urge the Minister to involve the Minister of Housing, in addition to the Association of Dutch Municipalities, and to ensure that the housing part, and especially the planned thinking that is needed, is firmly invested in this agenda. Can he promise that? Mr. Chairman. I may have missed something, that's possible. But I have asked whether the evaluation of this law will also take into account the effects of possible new initiatives by schools in other schools already present in the region. Can the Minister answer that? I hope it's not a repeat. Just one small point, Mr. Chairman. The second point I mentioned was pluralism. In fact very broad, until recently even by the Labour Party, there has been a call for planning-free and no longer looking at freedom of direction, i.e. direction-free planning. I very much appreciate that, after years of searching and discussing in Parliament, this Minister comes forward with this well-balanced bill. Thanks for the clarity. Thank you also for removing the illogical inequality that had arisen between very weak and insufficient schools. That's become clear. Mr. Chairman. I have to tell you something: my group will vote in favour of this bill. Secondly, I think it is wonderful that you mentioned the name of the Member of Parliament, Hirsch Ballin, as the predecessor of Mrs Adriaansens, who made her maiden speech here. I would say: that promises something for the political career of my colleague Adriaansens. We're gonna see her again, in all kinds of places!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u277	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. Finally, Mrs Nanninga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u278	Mr. Chairman. In his comprehensive answer to the questions of our group and everyone else about this law, the Minister has been able to remove quite a few concerns that live with our group. Thank you for that. However, obviously with the SP, we have doubts about the subject of segregation, both in the socio-economic and in the integrative sense. If there is a law in front of which segregation is an adverse side effect, then promises of a broad agenda to tackle segregation are of course beautiful and essential, but then the horse is stretched behind the cart. You can also choose not to implement the segregation-promoting plan. And although this law offers guarantees and controls, it was also striking that the minister laid down a lot of things with the municipalities. Forum believes, of course, that customization is very nice; Brummen is not Rotterdam, after all, and will have a very different educational need. But a clear, rural line must be the basis. Any violations and quality problems must be dealt with in equal ways and, where appropriate, also subject to equal penalties, irrespective of where the school is located. Those things are still very variable in the municipal community. We also share Senator Sent's criticism that there seems to be a paper reality in relation to the reviews and controls. Isn't there too much light between the ideal world in which this law should work and the feasibility in the ever-relenting practice? Nor has our impression been completely removed that this law might solve a non-existent problem. Apart from the better quality testing of the six criteria at the foundation of a school which can be implemented separately from this mega operation, I would ask the Minister once again: what exactly is improving with the possible introduction of this law in relation to the current system? Why does Article 23 and its implementation, as in current practice, need so urgently to be modernised? There is now a bit of a strange word in the field of school foundation, as I outlined in my first term. Once again, we had the same question as the SP. What exactly is against allowing a school funded by public funds to be accessible to every student, regardless of the student's philosophy of life? I am still looking forward to the Minister's answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u279	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you immediately in a position to respond to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the honourable Members for their second-term contribution. I will pass by and answer the questions per speaker. Mr Ganzevoort has put his finger back on segregation in line with his first term and the way in which we will deal with it in addition to the things that are already happening and are going to get a place in this law. Let us be clear that, as I have promised here, the inspection will look more closely at the LEA, just to sum it up. The inspection has also been given a role with regard to the testing, also in advance, of the new schools to be started when it comes to the adequacy requirements and the elements of quality. DUO is also part of this, because it has a role to play in how the application went. Has this been done according to the procedures laid down in the law? That's not a non-binding matter. So the moment that that view of the municipality comes, and goes to the inspection and to DUO, it is part of the considerations that are made there. Of course, they also have a legal basis for what they have to weigh. At the time of the inspection, we know that it is not only taken into account in the assessment of the quality test that they are doing, but also that it is taken directly into account, in particular when it comes to those elements of quality, in the risk-based monitoring that, from the moment the financing decision is taken, the signature does not even start and will be part of a dry performance test. So that is absolutely not a non-binding matter. Mr. Chairman. I also indicated that I would like to continue exploring the possibilities of making the implementation of the LEA more enforceable. This includes setting national targets more clearly, but also ensuring that municipalities work on the legal obligation they have. This legal obligation has also been promised to the schools in the legislation. I also indicated that there will be a national monitor. I think it would be a good idea to look at how we are going to carry it out, so whether this is a follow-up to what the inspection has done on thematic research or whether we are really looking at whether we can make a proper monitor with a greater frequency by other means. I assume that, as far as you are concerned, this is also a little more detailed. I would like to involve the Education Councils and the VNG in this. Of course, I would also like to include them in the agenda we are drawing up and in the way in which we will work with each other later on. They should be actively involved in this. It is my intention to entrust this to the paper for this calendar year and to make the arrangements. I promise you that I will also send the copy of that letter to this Chamber, so that you can follow whether the further effect will be in the manner that we have discussed here and which I have promised you. Following on, I would like to say to Mr Pijlman a few words about the financial resources now available for the education deficit policy. Then we'll talk about 750 million euros. That is a huge amount of money, which goes partly to the municipalities and partly to the schools. There is also the money that is in the Equal Opportunities Alliance. And so there are some more separate jars with goals that are all part of this. If you have such an agenda, it is, of course, always good to see if you can use those resources. It is also good to involve people's housing, I say in the direction of Mrs Bikker. In any case you have to make sure that it all gets picked up together, otherwise you are very busy in the wild. It is precisely the intention to bring more line and direction into it and, of course, to achieve more results in practice. It is perhaps good to return to what I have said about the responsibility of the municipalities and municipal councils once more. That is not meant to reduce the role of the government. I hope you have understood me correctly, because I believe that there is an important responsibility and that more work should be done on this, particularly in the case of segregation. But it is important that there is an interaction. We have a lot of opportunities in The Hague, and of course legislation and regulation is not without meaning. In fact, that has a lot of impact. But in the end, it has to be picked up by the people there. They must implement it. This is also in line with the investigation by former Secretary of State Dijksma, who indicated that the law and regulation were in principle in order, that it was not really the case. I think that is an understatement of the fact that we will have to work with it together, each in its own position and with its own responsibilities. Mr. Chairman. There was one more question from Mr Ganzevoort. It concerns his comment on the finances and the State of Education. I had a chance to take a look at that at dinner break. To be honest, I've been working on some other things over the past few weeks and haven't read through the whole state. We didn't even give it a policy response. You know that; it will come at a later date. I'll pick that up. I'll have that looked at, too. I think this is true of the fact that sometimes resources go to the municipalities and sometimes resources to schools. Then, of course, it is important that they work together. But where the money is, yes... Of course, some municipalities also find out that they want all the money. The other way around, schools say give us the money. Of course, you have to come out with each other in all reasonableness and responsibility. But I will also look at these comments. I will come back to that in the policy letter we are going to make, perhaps separately. I think you're getting it, too. Mr. Chairman. Then the corona letter, to put it that way. Of course, a copy of this will also be sent to this Chamber. That's what we've been doing with the other letters over the past few weeks, I remember. If you don't, I apologize for that, but I'll make sure you get those letters as well. Thanks also for the commitment to the subject and the commitment we make to it with each other. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have had Mr Ganzevoort's questions. Then Mrs. Sent. Mr Pijlman spoke of a 'charming offensive'. I hadn't thought of that word myself. It may have happened this way, but I sincerely say, through the President, that I am a little disappointed in your second term. I'm trying to figure out what this disappointment is all about. In politics, sometimes you get support and sometimes you don't get support. That is inherent in political companies, and I have been doing so for a number of years now, so I am used to it. I think my disappointment is a little bit that you take words in your second term, or use words from others in a way that makes you notice that you are behind it, which I think is: did this debate make sense? So my words and my explanations have not reached you, because 'butter soft', 'paper reality' and'more room for segregation' really disqualify me from this bill. I say this in all honesty: you are talking about your own words. I'm not gonna take an ounce off that. I also know my position, but in all honesty they do not do justice to what lies here. That in the end, considering everything, you say "we don't support it": okay, you can. But I am very sorry that you have used these words for this, also in the historical perspective of how the Labour Party has always had a clear line and has always been very clear about how it stood in this. That line suddenly evaporated in this debate. That can happen, of course, but I just don't get it. Well, then maybe that's a little bit of my personal emotion. But I'll accept it, of course, because that's how it works. Mr. Chairman. However, I can inform Mrs Sent that the Education Council has recommended that direction-free planning be carried out. This is also one of the opinions issued in the past. That is just as much a comment as a final remark. Mrs Adriaansens has rightly put her finger back on the evaluation. It's got to be good, but we're gonna follow it over the years. The evaluation and the moment when it was to take place have been the choices of the House of Representatives: as you know, they have been made by amendment. It was an amendment by the opposition, which had been given the Chamber's judgment; I say that to Mr Van Apeldoorn. You have rightly also drawn attention to the fact that education must be a binding factor in society. I think I have been clear about that myself, including everything I have said about segregation. I have made it clear that I do not think that the periphery is in education, but education is, of course, part of it. Education should also contribute to countering segregation. We need to find good manners for that, also administratively. But that also includes the attitude of drivers that they want to contribute something to that. That is why I am grateful for what you have said. I hope that these words will continue to be heard, including in the country and with those who belong to your party, so that we can really put our hands on that and ensure that we give substance to it, even with respect for the diversity that exists. But I think that is also something that should be included in the attitude on these matters. We are, of course, encouraging in practice that content is given to this; you asked for it. Especially around segregation and the Equal Opportunities Alliances, sharing the good practices, as we always call it in bad Dutch, is always part of that. This is also part of the friendship schools. That's such a good example. In doing so, schools connect with each other, even if there is a difference between them. For example, a public school meets a school with a religious background in particular education. They talk to each other, listen to each other and ask each other questions. Those are also good initiatives. It is good to share that and bring it to the attention of the public. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Apeldoorn pointed out that this bill would give more room for special schools in particular. I'll give you the affair. Now it is the choice of parents; I repeat: the choice of parents. It is true that a majority of parents opt for special education, which can also be general special, and that a more limited proportion chooses for public education. But this bill could lead to more public education schools. So this is for everyone, for all of us. In this respect, this legislative proposal offers opportunities, but it also introduces a number of opportunities with regard to the stricter requirements that will be imposed. So you really have to have something to jump through the hoop, as I said in the Lower House. But again, that goes for everyone, no matter what your background is and what your goals are with the schools. In the end, you have to comply with the legal requirements, but that also applies to everyone; I say this in the direction of Mr Van Kesteren. Fundamental rights are universal. "Universal" means that they apply to everyone, that everyone can appeal to it and that everyone is also judged equally as to whether or not you are entitled to that fundamental right and whether or not you are entitled to use it. We are not going to isolate one group from that, which would not make it a universal fundamental right. By the way, some people think that all kinds of segregation is being promoted. Islamic schools are generally accessible schools. There are really excellent schools in the Islamic primary schools. The quality of this is very well in order. In that respect too, therefore, we must do them justice and not place them separately. They are just as well part of it, but they have to meet all the requirements of the legislator. That applies to them, too. Freedom also involves a responsibility. That is what I say to schools which I myself have sat or taught, so to speak, and I say this to every school. If you don't take that responsibility, but you think you can claim freedom, then you've come to the wrong place, to me, but also to politics in general. Then we'll perform. If we have to, we will act hard, because we do not want freedoms to be traded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u281	Those are firm words from the Minister. It's about legal obligations, but what about sanctioning them? I haven't seen that before. Will the new legislation improve this? Can we then see what you said, that is, acting hard, if a school does not comply with the legal obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u282	The answer to that is yes. If necessary, we will even perform before the school has received official funding. That test isn't here right now. If you vote against and if a majority does so, then that test will not come either. We're gonna check out the front. That's not a non-binding thing; that's not a paper reality. They are very clear, strict legal requirements and we will check whether schools comply with them. If they don't meet that, even if it's only one out of six, they won't get any funding. If we have doubts about a subject where we cannot judge so harshly directly because it is in the second basket, to put it quite domestically again, then immediately at the start of that school the risk-oriented monitoring of the inspection starts. I have just said this to Mr Ganzevoort. After a year the inspection can simply say, if it is not yet in order: you will really only get one more chance of getting a set job and if it is not good by the end of the year, then we will stop the funding. That is not possible in the current system. This law therefore strengthens the possibilities of inspection, of course under the responsibility of the politically responsible, to intervene in good time and to ensure that things go as we have organised in the laws and regulations. You cannot choose to do that, but I really think that is an enrichment of our instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u283	I am pleased that Mr Beertema's motion from 2015 has been implemented. I'm glad. I wrote that down, too. My question to the Minister is as follows. As a general rule, suggestions, proposals, recommendations and concerns of the PVV are only taken into account after a number of years. Then it lands. Can I expect you to include my concern, which I have expressed here today in my speech, in the implementation of legislation and, in particular, in enforcement, as I have recommended?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u284	First of all, I shall deal with the question of the implementation of the motion. I have indicated that we have widened it. She was narrowed down, but it can't be constitutionally. You can't just do it for one segment, one type of school, namely Islamic education. So we have widened it, but we are doing what is required in that motion: making demands on the front. If this bill is real law, if it has gone through the Chambers, has been published and entered into, then we are simply going to act and act in accordance with this law. So when it comes to the matter, the law will indeed have to be applied. If this law does not enter into force and we fall back on a law that rages on all sides, where things fall out and where there is a lot of legalization and so on, then we cannot do all these things. I'd be really sorry to hear that. Anyway, in the end, it's up to the Chamber to decide. I respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u285	Mr. Van Kesteren one last?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u286	I am concerned that at least there is legislation and that there is also a mention of man and horse. We hear that in this gremium too: socio-economic segregation. It's all being specifically appointed. I wonder why it is that man and horse are not mentioned when it comes to that other segregation, for which I always try to ask attention. Is there a taboo on that? It is immediately placed in a frame by saying: you take a certain group. No, not at all. I'm not talking about groups. I am talking about an ideology which has harmful consequences in education and in society. That's what I call it. But then there will be a negative response. Can you promise that in future you will be less difficult about this and simply call it man and horse? Then you do not have to name people or a certain group, but simply: Islamization in our society is just a fact and through education that is going on, is going on. Then GroenLinks notes that it is only a very small percentage, but our concern is that it will be a very significant percentage in ten years' time. Can you imagine that? Can you promise me that you will not be so disrespectful about this anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u287	That was your third question and it is clear. The minister, and then I'm going to see Mrs. Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u288	I have a sister who's spastic. I don't think it's much of a comparison, but those words are up to you. In general terms, I think I've just been ready to go, because it doesn't matter what kind of school it is. So it could also be an Islamic school. If you've been following me for the past few months, you know what I've been doing. At a school, our judgment and the assessment of the inspection are valid, because there must be foundations underneath it. You can't just go wild and do something. It has to be careful. Wouldn't it be better to go a little faster? Yeah, we're working on legislation to speed that up. But if there's any reason to assume that things aren't right at a school, there's a need to act. I'm not hesitant about that. I'm just saying that. I'm also pretty firm in the direction of schools that sometimes think, "You're ours." But I belong to everyone. They too, if they have freedom, must take responsibility for it, as I have just said. That's how we're supposed to act. That's how we're supposed to act. With regard to your assessment of how the PVV initiatives are sometimes looked at, I say: if something is right, it is good. If Mr Beertema, the spokesman in the House of Representatives, has a good proposal, we will simply say so. If we don't like it, we'll say it. That's the directness you can expect from each other. Again and again, I really object in principle to fundamental rights not being considered universal. It's so deep inside me and in the cabinet. Besides, nothing else must be expected from us. That's the Constitution. That is the supreme thing when we talk about earthly legislation. It's universal. This is also the case with freedom of education. We are going to make no distinction, no different than on the basis of the detailed laws and regulations we have made. We judge schools on that, whatever they are: reformorical, Catholic, general special, Islamic, and I can mention a few more. There's 15 of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u289	In reply to Mr Van Kesteren, I heard the Minister repeatedly very strongly link the quality test with six points to this law. He said the same thing to Mrs. Sent. He said if you're not in favour of this law, we'll never have a good quality test. The Minister makes a bit of a package deal of that, and I find that somewhat objectionable. I commended the quality test on behalf of our group. You should know that I'm actually a little surprised that it hasn't been here long, but okay. Does the Minister agree with me that this does not, of course, have to be a package deal and that we can carry out the quality tests perfectly, even if this law was not introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u290	Mr President, this is where the law lies. "Package deal" is a bit hard on me, but this is in the law. It's part of the law. Now is the time to make the choice, the balancing. That is what I wanted to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn, because he belongs a bit to Mrs Nanninga when it comes to this subject, together with Mrs Sent and Mr Van Kesteren. Are we going to stick to the law that is now in place, which really has major deficits and shortcomings? Or are we moving to a new law, which undoubtedly includes other wishes? I understand that, too. Especially when you are not in the coalition, you do not always have the opportunity to contribute so actively. But there has been room for opposition in the Lower House to amend. I have really given room for that, looking at the content. Then you're gonna make your decision. But then the trade-off is also... I believe that this should be included, although of course it is up to you to do so. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I shouldn't completely forget my position here either. But let me put it this way: I would advise you to include the consequences of no votes in your consideration. The consequence of voting no is that we fall back on a law that does nothing about a lot of things, that rages on all sides. That law keeps schools, if things don't go well, in a position for a long time that we can't do anything about it, when it comes to foundation standards and content. Well, then, of course, the trade-off is just up to you. I'm going to follow it with interest, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u291	To quote a famous political quote: now do it again. The idea of a package deal stays with this. That there are things wrong in the old form, including the lack of a good quality test, is of course so. Maybe a yes-no question in this case is more convenient. Does the Minister agree with me that you could implement that quality assessment in itself well outside this law and that the premonition that is being made here that you really have to agree to this is not quite a proper representation of things if you want to get a proper quality test at the foundation of schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u292	I also see other advantages of this bill, but indeed: in theory this can be done. But that would mean that I would have to start a legislative process now, if there were overall consensus on it, and then we would be two years away. There's just a law now. We've been working since 1993. My esteemed former colleague, Mr De Cloe, is pleased, because his motion has finally been implemented. And otherwise Mrs. Jorritsma will. We had to activate her memory, but then it came back. Anything's possible. Maybe my flaw is a little bit right now that I'd just like to keep talking until everyone agrees and brings it along. I know I'm gonna have to make a point. That is also because I am genuinely convinced that, from your point of view, as well as for the SP, the Labour Party and a number of others who may have doubts, there are real elements in this law that you could embrace and really see as added value in relation to how we have dealt with this issue so far. Well, good, done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u293	That point is getting closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u294	Mr Doornhof rightly pointed out that citizenship is going to take some time, but now we can just take these steps. There is now one complicating factor, namely that the deadline for the introduction of this law has been slightly postponed because the corona crisis has caused us to deal with this later. If the other law is going to get some speed, it might still run in sync, but in the end he just goes with swallowtails. That is extremely important, I think, because those clarifications are what we call official; they are, of course, tightening up of the current, somewhat weaker texts. I am also looking forward to the debate on it, because it is one of those subjects for which I am very motivated. Mr. Chairman. I think I have already included some of Mr Van Kesteren's questions in the interruption he had. I think it is important that, of course, this group of schools you are interested in is part of it, with all the other schools. You are right, then, that they are parts that will have to be looked at. I think I have made it clear that enforcement is strengthened in this law at the moment when something is not in order, both before and after the official financing decision has been taken. Mr Schalk had indeed asked a question I had left aside about the school of cooperation. That's another fine example. I have personal memories of that, too. A MP of the VVD, my very, very esteemed former colleague Cornielje, has finally with conviction from the Chamber the cooperation school... For this, Article 23 of the Constitution had to be amended. For those who think it is cast into concrete: then there was just a change, with the support of the confessional parties. In the meantime, five schools have entered into cooperation in this way. So that space has had consequences for that too. Mr. Chairman. As far as segregation is concerned, I think I have said enough; you asked for it. Mr Pijman quoted me on one of the greatest achievements of parliamentary history. Others did, too. It's nice if your words don't go completely unnoticed; I was a little afraid of that with Mrs Sent. It is clear that in the coalition agreement freedom of education has also been given a place, as you know. There's also D66's signature underneath. I was also very pleased that we, as parties carrying this cabinet, were able to agree on this. This is my assessment of how I look at that fundamental right, so to speak. The whole discussion about a strict admission policy is insanely interesting. This is not just about the fact that it often happens from the point of view that students are stopped because the basis of the school is applied so strictly that it actually happens in an improper way. I also made it clear in the first period that it is happening the other way around. There are municipalities that have such policies that parents... In the break I was told an example in which it was not the very first choice of a child. That kid was logged in because the municipality was very strict about who gets to go first. Sometimes it is when you live in the zip code area. Sometimes it is when you have a little brother or sister at school. In short, there are other forms of admission policy. So, if we were to draw a line through admission policy, that would also disappear. I don't know if that's your purpose. I think Mrs Bikker was right in her interruption to this issue. It's sometimes made very big. Politically speaking, I sometimes understand that, because it is an interesting ideological discussion about 'accessible or not'. But what if there was no possibility at all? Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked for a strict admission policy. Suppose for the small part of schools in that larger whole that do, that obstacle is gone. Then perhaps that ideologically is a huge victory, but will it ultimately contribute to the subject we are talking about here? Asking the question is actually answering her a little bit. The debate can therefore be held. That's interesting. Ever since the freedom of education came, these are subjects that come back. So we are part of a very beautiful history, even when it comes to discussion. I think we'll continue with that for a while, too. There is another initiative law coming into the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. Mr Pijlman was disappointed with my reply about sufficient public education and about that beautiful Constitutional article, and then paragraph 4. That's your favorite member of this article, I think. I'm sorry I didn't go into that. What remains completely normal is the guarantee function of public education. You referred to the discussion that took place in the Lower House: should the first school be a public school in a new building district? I have indeed discussed this with your party colleague Van Meenen and with the SP. An amendment to that effect was not adopted. But my motivation wasn't that I would have anything against public education. I just indicated that you should also see if there's any interest in it. You can say that the first school will have to be public, but what if that school was founded? Then there may be no or insufficient students. In new buildings, you can't start asking all parents about this. Very specific market research can be used for this purpose. That's what parents can ask for. I believe that if 50 parents want that to happen, it must be done, but it can also be picked up from the city council which also has an active role in it. So I believe that this new law is also well regulated. Of course, we also have an overall responsibility from a rich level. Then things just come back here and we also talk about it and make our choices. That also played in Zeeland a while ago, where the same subject played a bit. There too, choices had to be made: is education going to disappear altogether or do we know how to achieve something beautiful in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen so that schools can stand up and there is room for people who would otherwise opt for public education, to make optimal use of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u295	This is all true, but my question is about the underlying issue. How do you assess whether this paragraph of Article 23 is being complied with in general? I don't see any reports on that. I also got very general answers. I have a little bit of an idea in my mind, though. I hope you will be able to take that away from me. The discussion in the Lower House following this bill has been: shouldn't that be the first school? Then it's about the parent who has freedom of choice. I have said the necessary things myself. But it is still very interesting to know what you are doing with this paragraph as guardian of Article 23. You might expect us to get a report on this or have a regular debate on it. Well, none of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u296	Debates are organized by the Chamber and then, of course, we come as a cabinet and participate in it. So if there are no debates about it, then that is also due to the appointment from the Chamber and perhaps also to the interest in such subjects. Apart from that, Article 23 is all ours. Public education is an integral part of this. Special education and public education are two sides of the same coin. I would also say here that one cannot do without the other. So it's part of each other. This also means that when we come up with a legislative proposal like this, we must also take with us the possibility of establishing, if necessary, public education when new schools are to be set up. That's in this bill. That's what we took in there. By the way, I thought the answer to the questions was quite concrete, but you can have a different perception.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u297	And I still don't, not now. Of course, the House of Representatives can organise a debate and then you will appear and answer. You stand for Rule 23, convinced, content, fine. But what exactly do you do with this member? I never notice that there is any discussion about this Member. You say in your reply: it's always 70/30 and this bill doesn't change anything. Nor is it about me preferring public education to special education in general. No, we are jointly responsible for Rule 23, but my point is that nothing happens to this Member. That is my position and I do not see it refuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u298	I do not think that this bill is right and that what has been given to public education and the possibilities it can make use of. This is not for everyone, because this market research is only applied in very specific circumstances. That guarantee function is, and I am not doing anything about it, nor about the value and importance of public education. In the first term there was some sort of surprise. In my opinion, you said that society is secularising and public education is not growing. Could that possibly have something to do with the choices parents make? When parents choose a school of special education, that is their right in our society. If they choose public education, so can they. There must also be room for this if the requirements are to be met numerically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u299	Mr Pijlman, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u300	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I have to go to Groningen and get up early tomorrow. It is perhaps also a debate for outside this Chamber. Yeah, this bill is neatly put together in that respect. It nuances the concept of "direction." I am concerned that the Empire does not, in my view, give any effect to this paragraph of Article 23. Of course, there is freedom of choice. We have talked about this in detail today, but according to paragraph 4, the Empire has a very specific role to play in this. I can see whether we do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u301	If I repeat what I said now, perhaps the discussion will continue. Well, that's the big win we're talking about. You missed that, so we can buy time. But I think I've said enough about it. Maybe one more thing, finally. The accusation that the Empire isn't doing anything about it, I don't think it's placed. If you look at this bill, which is what we are talking about now, you will see that it has the attention and that we are giving a toolbox that is very specific to public education, not to that other, but to public education. Mr. Chairman. I have already answered Mrs Bikker's question about the housing part. I will take your wish to take a look at the evaluation, including in the context of regions where this might happen, which will have an impact, possibly also on existing schools. That, I think, is a very useful addition. You did indeed surprise me when you said that your group will vote in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you for that. I think I have already answered Mrs Nanninga's question. The same applies to the other questions that have been raised. Then I've come to the end of my answer, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the input and the fine debate we have had. I agree with all those who have complimented those who have done the care, because I have enjoyed it too. I really appreciate their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u302	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u303	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-6.u304	Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members and staff who made this meeting possible and wish you all well at home.
