ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u1	The next item is the continuation of the Government's response to the General Political Reviews. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had three more questions from the part before the suspension. I have now answered two questions. It was Mrs Bredenoord's questions, but she hasn't come back yet, so I'm gonna hold off on that for a second. I do not yet have the answer to Mr Rosenmöller's question on education, so that is only in the second term. I come to a single question about education. We've already done most of them. Before the suspension, we have already talked in general about traineeships and other problems that arise. Perhaps I should add that we are working together with the MBO Council, the Cooperation Organisation Vocational Education Business Life SBB, the Inspectorate of Education, the employers' organisations and other partners on a new service document with wider opportunities for schools to have students experience in alternative ways. In the coming months, every effort will be made to continue to recruit internships. This is also done by regional action plans, as has recently been done in the Rotterdam-Rhinemond region. Mbo schools have a good view of the students who can't find an internship spot. That document will also be sent to the House of Representatives shortly. I will come back to Mr Rosenmöller's question later, as I promised, but I will do so in second place. A single question has been asked on justice matters. Among other things, it was about organised drug crime and the undermining it. I fully confirm what others have already said, namely that this is one of the greatest threats to our rule of law. I very much agree with that. We are therefore investing heavily in the fight against organised, undermining crime. From 2019 to 2021, the reinforcement approach deployed with the EUR 100 million from the government agreement will run for three years. That's in full execution. Furthermore, on 1 September, a programme director-general undermining has been appointed with a central coordinating role in the approach to undermining and directing the intensification of the broad offensive. This is precisely to ensure jointness and continuity within the approach. Next month, a campaign will be launched by the Trimbos Institute to address users of party drugs to their responsibility for the consequences. To this end, they have examined the argument for which young people are particularly sensitive. Mrs Bikker had asked that question and said that they are most concerned about environmental damage. That's why that's the campaign's approach. That campaign should have started in the spring. Corona threw soot in the food. Young people are faced with the consequences of drug use in different ways, so that they are reminded and conclude that they do not want to have the misery for the environment on their consciences. There was a question about unrest if we might have to go beyond the partial lockdown. Other questions about demonstrations have also been asked. A few points on that. Maintaining public order is, of course, a local issue. Demonstrations fall within the legal framework of the Public Events Act and are managed locally. Anti-abortion actions at abortion clinics across the country cannot all be legally aligned. The consideration of whether a demonstration requires rules or limitations depends on all relevant facts. This assessment and its outcome may vary on a case-by-case basis. The mayor is, of course, accountable to the city council. Of course, there has also been talk of extremist terrorists and jihadism. Within the Netherlands, the various chain partners focus on removing the threat in a national context. For the NCTV this is done by the local approach, customized to the person, personal circumstances and the immediate environment. The Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands number 53 also goes into that. In order to reduce the international threat of terrorism at source, a network of diplomatic regional security coordinators has been set up from 2015 to identify threats early, prevent radicalisation and counter terrorism. Examples are the programmes in the Sahel, the joint training of military, police and justice in the fight against violent extremism, and the rehabilitation and reintegration of returned foreign terrorist fighters in the Western Balkans. The network now has a strong information position and contacts with counterterrorism authorities in key regions of the Netherlands. This feeds Dutch multilateral engagement in the EU, in the UN, but also in the EU, and that is of course an important initiative for the Netherlands in the Global Counterterrorism Forum and the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS. Mr. Chairman. I will then come to the questions I would have liked to answer earlier. I see Mrs. Bredenoord sitting in her bench. I promised her in the first term to come back to two questions in the second term, but I already have them now. The first was whether there are any insights from the programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg about how the administrative burden develops. At the end of this year, I can answer that question, the Minister for Medical Care and Sport will send a final report to the House of Representatives, which will examine the results and lessons learned. I can say something about the first insights that have been gained. One. It's happening in the workplace. The implementation of the programme is becoming increasingly clear that removing bottlenecks at national level has only limited effect. Caregivers also experience workload as a result of rules within the health care institution where they work. This sometimes turns out to be even worse than what we cause from national politics. This means that only a small part comes directly from obligations imposed by the government. Parties such as health insurers, municipalities, supervisors, industry and professional associations and health care institutions themselves are also part of the cause. That's a first insight. There will therefore be a comprehensive report to the Chamber at the end of this year. Then there was also the question of whether there were any other short-term options for further reducing the workload in the care sector. I've already said something about that. In addition, the following. In order to reduce the acute workload at the moment, people from other sectors are trained in various ways, such as Extra Hands for Care and the National Care Class, in a week's time to assist in healthcare. We did that in spring with people who came from KLM and the Red Cross. We are doing this with people from the facility sector, among other things. The cabinet is looking at how more companies can be joined and how we can make even more agreements with sectors such as catering, the cultural sector and also the travel industry. These people can join in the supportive atmosphere in health care institutions. In addition, a campaign was launched this week to get former professionals back to health care. In the stand-of-business letter COVID-19 which we expect to be sent to the Lower House this evening or tomorrow morning, more information can be found about these initiatives. In addition, it is important that care professionals receive mental support to cope with the high workload. Here, if there is a need for psychosocial support, extra coaching is available via Strong in your Work. 2,000 professional coaches are ready to offer low-threshold mental support. Of course for the heavier psychological care care is possible via ARQ IVP, the National Psychotrauma Centre. Then I come to economics and public finances. I will begin with the financial position of municipalities. Questions have been asked about this, among others by Mr Gerbrandy. The cabinet is getting signals that municipalities are under financial pressure. I also share the concern about what this entails for local amenities. In particular, the municipalities experience financial pressure in the social domain, in the fields of youth and Wmo. We are aware of this and we are also taking a number of measures. 300 million for 2022. In many areas, the cabinet is in good conversation with the fellow governments. Of course, more than 5 billion acres were foreseen at the start of this cabinet period. Additional funding for youth care has been made available and has been included in the various budgets, recently in the Millions Note, amounting to 300 million for 2022. In addition, this spring we released extra money for a number of dossiers in the social domain, in particular Safe Home, women's shelter and homeless people. At the moment we are still in conversation with the municipalities and there are also a few researches in the field of youth. We expect the results in December of this year and the Wmo subscription rate. This, too, could lead to further action. Then there was a question about the lack of indexation for pensions. Mr Van Rooijen asked what my opinion was. I understand the concerns. We have had this discussion before. The financial situation of pension funds sometimes makes it impossible to index even longer term. We have seen in recent years that most of the funds' liabilities have increased more than the returns, which means that the financial position of pension funds has deteriorated. Due to the low interest rates, saving for retirement is expensive. And interest rates are expected to remain low. Returns in the coming years are also lower than they are now. In the new pension system, interest rates play a much less prominent role, as you know. For now, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is in consultation with the social partners, supervisors and the Pension Federation on a framework in which pensions can grow into the new pension system over a number of years. We are looking at what is needed in the meantime to make a balanced, explanatory and responsible transition to the new system. That's not easy. The absolute exclusion of discounts or the full possibility of indexing is simply irresponsible. If the liabilities of most funds increase faster than the returns, the financial position deteriorates. This is a fact which we must go through in the coming years in the best possible and balanced way for each generation. So we cannot give guarantees in the vein of always indexing. Nor can we guarantee that there will never be any cuts. However, we are looking at how we can prevent this as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u3	There are few guarantees in life, as we note this year, not even in financial terms, neither in terms of income nor in terms of pensions. That's right. But we are dealing with a 13-year history of not indexing, i.e. a 20% decrease in purchasing power. We have the risk of discounts, at the end of the year for 1.5 million pensioners at ABP and Care and Welfare half of the 3 million pensioners belong to these two large funds. These are the two of them which are now below the minimum coverage level of 90%, some 85% or 86%. Today it was announced that pension assets amounted to 1,600 billion minus 4 billion, i.e. 1,596 billion. 40 billion in a quarter. In the first three quarters it is, by the way, zero, so we are back at the super level at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u4	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u5	The Prime Minister says that perhaps Mrs Jorritsma would like me to say that we sometimes have to cut short and sometimes cannot index. But that has a math background. I'm trying to explain. I can tell you're wrong or I'm right, but that's not gonna do us any good. Mr Kox was allowed to put his questions in detail later. But I haven't started, or you're saying, "What's your question?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u6	Well, you've been busy for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u7	Yeah, it could take a lot longer if you do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u8	I'm very curious about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u9	Yes, chairman, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u10	Well, I'm gonna have to stop you right now. Interruptions are intended for supplementary questions. The deadlines are intended to make your statements. So I'm going to ask you again to ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u11	I was even interrupted by a colleague who called me: ask your question. I think you should do that and not Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u13	One more time, Mr. Chairman. I am not going to go beyond explaining, because you are not allowed to do so. I'm obedient. Fortunately, the Prime Minister is very attentive. We had a very interesting discussion last year, and I am not going to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u14	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u15	We also receive the Financial Reviews with Minister Hoekstra and the Tax Plan. Here comes all that back. I would point out that the legislative proposal on the pension system will not be here until December next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u16	But what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u17	This is a warning. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he and the Minister for Social Affairs would like to take a good look at the transition framework he has just outlined with a view to a better system in the cabinet, which we look at differently, at least in the next six years, less discounts and indexing, as well as the fact that there are no cuts before or after the elections, and not indexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u18	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u19	Yes, because the threshold of 90% applies only now in December. Next year, the threshold will be 100%. If this continues, that means that after the elections at the end of next year 15% of ABP will have to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the Prime Minister the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u21	I'm going to take the answer to your question with you in the future. Your question would then be: how to prevent this? My answer is this: I understand that people who have paid pension contributions their whole life are incredibly annoyed and say: there is so much money in those pots, so why is there a problem with indexation and why is there perhaps even a discount? That is because commitments have increased at the same pace. What's in the pot has doubled, but the commitments have tripled and they're about the same level over so many years. In addition, we're going straight to the new system. In this new system, you must ensure that young, middle and older people can all build up a fair pension. If you were to guarantee absolute indexation and absolutely no discount, something that I think you absolutely should not do, then you are taking real risks, including with solidarity between generations. Mr Van Rooijen and I have often had this discussion. Our pension system has just been declared the best pension system in the world. The best pension system in the world can only exist in the face of solidarity and the fact that young people know that they are building up and that they enjoy it and that they will soon have a good pension. As we have to do with the AOW through sensible public finances, pension funds do with the buffers. If you want to maintain those buffers, you can't give that guarantee. In the meantime, Wouter Koolmees tries to do everything in its power to make indexes possible, wherever possible, and to avoid discounts. That's what we're trying to do with maximum creativity, but you can't give firm guarantees. That is the only thing in which we cannot find each other, but I understand Mr Van Rooijen's plea, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u22	Mr. Van Rooijen, another supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u23	I didn't ask for guarantees, but that aside. I am thinking in particular of the care staff. The care staff gets a one-time bonus of €1,000. But the retired care workers get a discount of perhaps 5% over ten grand. That discount is not a one-off discount, but it is a permanent discount of €500. The workers in the care that saves for their pension are faced with a building structure that falls by 5%. Would you mind taking that with you? I can't explain that to the health care workers. At the time, Lubbers and Ruding made 30 billion out of ABP a separate story. If that hadn't happened, there wouldn't be any cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u24	That was your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u25	Yeah, that's right. It is in the book of Ruding, Balance sheet, also described in detail, on page 183.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u26	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u27	Indexation is something other than discounts. But can you and the Minister for Social Affairs, in the coming weeks, take a look at this also from the social partners, employers and employees, to see that there is no reduction at the end of the year, even over the next six years? For if you continue to work with the zero rate of calculation and if it is to remain zero for six years, then the premium of 7 million workers should not be increased by 20% or 30% or the amount of the oldage pension should be reduced by 20% or 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u28	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u29	The point is clear. In my view, we are both trying to avoid that there is no indexing and that there is no need to cut down. But you can't give firm guarantees. I can only say that we really disagree on Mr Van Rooij's overfocus on just what is in the pots and not on the obligations. Those obligations are about the same as what's in the pot. That pot may increase, but if the obligations triple, then you still have a pot against the obligations and against the pot obligations. So you have to take into account a fragile situation. Every time you have to see if you can index and if you can avoid discounts. You just can't give guarantees. Koolmeis is a creative person and he is really looking for ways to limit the damage. But that cannot be infinite, because we must prevent the pension system from becoming so damaged immediately, in the transition, that the new pension system creates a serious problem of solidarity between generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u30	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen, and that will be your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u31	So no guarantees. I understand that, and I didn't actually ask about that either. But can the Prime Minister promise that he will consult with the Minister for Social Affairs on an effort obligation, particularly because it is clear that not so much returns are bad, but that the calculation rate is the only cause of this problem? We are the only country in Europe that has zero risk-free interest rates, while all other countries have 3% or 4% interest rates, which is also used for premiums in the Netherlands. For the premiums you also charge 3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u32	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u33	The sacred triangle is what's in the pot and what's in the obligations and the accounting rate. You have to see them all in balance. I do not think that simply increasing the rate of calculation is the solution either. That's too easy, too. I do not need to understand myself with the Minister for Social Affairs, because he is already trying to see what he can do. I think we all agree: no one is going to block indexes or cut pensions for fun. Only, given the current economic situation, you cannot give firm guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u34	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u35	Then there is the question of public finances. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. The debt will rise, that's right, to about two thirds, or about 65%, of our national income. This is, of course, surrounded by great uncertainty and today's press conference on the necessary additional measures will not further improve the picture. Of course, the projections towards 2025 will only increase the uncertainty about that figure. The debt will therefore continue to rise in the longer term if we do not take action. Frankly, I consider the sustainability of the debt to be more important than the exact level. This means that a country can repay a debt and the corresponding interest in the long term and thus maintain the confidence of the financial markets. Here again, I cannot give Mr Schalk a specific maximum percentage. Precisely because we have built up a buffer in recent years, debt is not now rising directly to a dangerous level. This is also apparent from the fact that the Netherlands can still live at negative interest rates. After Germany, we have the best loan conditions in Europe and we are among the best in the world. The Central Planning Bureau also confirms this: The Netherlands is one of the very few countries in the world with a triple A at all credit rating agencies. At this stage of the crisis, we choose to stabilise the economy. If we were to step too hard on the brakes now and not do so, that would stand in the way of recovery. At the same time, there is a balance sheet here, as was the case in the debate on pensions. You cannot continue to borrow indefinitely and the debts have to be repaid or refinanced in the long term. The current negative interest rate is, of course, advantageous, but in principle it does not change much. In the long term, therefore, we will have to phase out the debt gradually, so that we are prepared for another crisis. It is very important that we do not transfer the bill to future generations in the big snow slider. I agree with Mr Knapen that the current situation with low inflation and negative interest rates is not a guarantee for the future. It is therefore not desirable or sustainable to take on more and more debt, even if interest rates are low. It is important that we also focus on future economic growth. We are; we are about to talk about the Growth Fund. It is therefore a matter of ensuring sustainable public finances and sustainable economic growth and......................................................................................................................................................................................... For reforms always lead to more future economic growth. I'd like to sum it up briefly. By being sparing in the last ten years, we have built up a huge thirst apple after Balkenende III and IV were forced to raise public debt in 2008, with the support of my party and the opposition and many others. This was inevitable at the time because of the major banking crisis and the subsequent economic recession. We have managed to bring public debt below 50% through economic policy. So we have a big apple for the thirst. Well, now we're thirsty, so we're eating that apple now. But we have to make sure that a new apple grows soon. This is done by gradually reinvigorating public finances, including through reforms and economic growth. That would be my brief summary. Fortunately, we can do this in the Netherlands and we are among the countries in the world with the most solid public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u36	I have a very short question. I think the debt is already rising to about 65% and I understand that it is going to get even higher. But is there also a tipping point where you say you can't do it anymore? I also understand why we're saying we're gonna save up in a minute. But is there any perspective yet? Can we hold the government to that as soon as the crisis is over?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u37	You can't call it a hard percentage. The Germans are now rising to 80%. They're between 75% and 80%. They're really a bit above us and they're also triple A. The German economy is five times bigger than ours. They can handle a slightly larger puddle. They have a slightly lower interest rate. I think they're 0.1% lower. We have -0.4% and they have -0.5% in ten-year loans. So they're a little bit more comfortable. But that's always the case with German bonds, because their economy is so much bigger. This always has an effect of about 0.1% on interest rates. So you can't prick a very hard percentage of it. Of course, you have to do it as soon as the economy starts showing signs of recovery. That is the purpose of the aid packages. They're phasing out to summer next year. You can't exactly predict it. You're not 100% sure how it goes with the virus and the vaccine. I'm so glad we got that apple for thirst. I'm much more concerned about a different effect. The fact that we can do this means that the relative differences between the German and Dutch economies, on the one hand, and the Italian, French and Spanish economies, on the other hand, are only widening. The imbalance in Europe between countries that have reformed and those that have not reformed sufficiently......................................................................................................................................................................................... This could also destabilise European cooperation in the long term. To be honest, I am now more concerned about this effect than about the direct impact on public finances, because in the best Dutch tradition we will eventually put them back in order. As a follow-up, a question by Mr Rosenmöller on the Schoo-lecture by Klaas Knot was raised. He stressed, inter alia, the importance of greater coordination with economic policies. It focuses on the importance of reducing the debt burden of countries. I recognise the challenges facing Europe outlined by Klaas Knot. We have discussed the joint fight against the crisis before in this debate. The recovery tool has also been mentioned. We have taken good steps with regard to the crisis measures. He then said that Member States' budgetary policies should be better coordinated. That is, of course, what we are aiming for with a return to a Stability and Growth Pact at some point. There is also a need to build more buffers in good times and to step up efforts by Member States to reduce high debt to low debt. Member States with high debt obviously have to do more than Member States with low debt. I would like to say, in response to Knot, that this means reform, reform, reform. The only way for Italy, France and Spain to achieve a sustainable economic recovery is to reform, sorry, always two things about the labour market and pensions. The average net pension burden in these countries is 16% where it is 6%-7% in the Netherlands. These are the costs of the pension system. That's 10% of the national income difference. Those are huge amounts of money. You just can't afford it. Then you also have to reform the labour market and open up all those closed professions in Italy so that there can be more competition. That's really the only way. Nor can we solve this with transfers in Europe. You're never gonna make it. Those economies are far too big for that. It is also completely contrary to our principles. Then I'll join the Growth Fund. In order to be able to invest as quickly as possible, a special process has been set up for this round for the submission of investment proposals. This is not the same as in the structural situation. The first round will examine what proposals are feasible in the short term. The previously communicated planning was based on presentation in the spring of this year. That was postponed by the corona crisis. It didn't take place until September. The plan is for the three coordinating directors to submit a number of proposals to the Advisory and Assessment Committee through the fund managers after the parliamentary examination of the Growth Fund. That will probably be the beginning of January. Yes, in theory, more than 4 billion can indeed be awarded. A breach of the budgeted annual obligation will obviously have to be approved by Parliament, because it is, of course, a fund of 20 billion over five years. In any case, that is what the House of Representatives is doing, and I think the House of First Instance is doing the same. The Committee will advise on the basis of the priorities and on the basis of the relative attractiveness of the proposals, based on the criteria. And then it is up to the fund managers, which are now Wopke Hoekstra and Eric Wiebes, finance ministers and EZK, to decide on the final allocation of funds. Mr President, I see that someone is trying to interrupt me. Perhaps I could finish the questions on the Growth Fund and say the following. A review framework setting out the criteria and an impact analysis has been established for the weighting and assessment of the Assessment Advisory Committee. This is set out in the annex to the letter of inquiry on the Growth Fund. The Committee assesses submitted investment proposals on their impact on earning capacity, within the framework conditions of the fund, such as social benefits, and selects on the overall package of projects. The fund has a number of green conditions. The proposal should not conflict with the government's climate ambitions, and the sum of social costs and benefits should be positive. For example, CO and nitrogen emissions are included as costs in the social cost-benefit analysis. They have a negative impact on biodiversity and the climate, and thus on society. The final opinion of the committee going to the cabinet is supported by an analysis and will be made public. And yes, that Growth Fund can also help to make the Dutch economy more sustainable. For the way in which we are now amassing our prosperity, I say that, among other things, to Mrs Bikker and others, is no longer sustainable. In many areas, processes and production techniques need to change. This calls for substantial investment. I have already said which criteria are considered in particular, and that green conditions are also important in this respect. Mrs Jorritsma's question was: will SMEs also be involved? The Growth Fund is intended to strengthen earning capacity. And yes, there is no doubt that entrepreneurs will play a major role in this. Proposals should have a minimum size of 30 million. That threshold has been chosen to combat fragmentation. That is one of the lessons that Mrs Jorritsma has learned from the fund-economic strengthening that Mrs Jorritsma has already mentioned. For this reason, several parties will also be involved in the application. Smaller parties can also be part of a consortium. SMEs can also benefit directly from investments from the Growth Fund, for example by being part or sub-contractor of an ecosystem that can grow through investment from the Fund. Of course, other instruments specifically aimed at stimulating investment among SMEs are also available. Finally, I would like to comment on the point made by Mrs Vos. For example, she talked about removing the animal from the food chain, but also asked how to become a precursor to the production of farmed meat and milk directly from grass. The cabinet is, of course, making substantial investments at the moment in order to make the sectors more sustainable and the National Growth Fund is open to applications. I really want to report that here. Of course, it will then have to be assessed by the committee, which will then look at all the criteria. It is precisely for new technologies, developments and opportunities to broaden protein production that the fund is in principle open. Of course, the committee has to assess it; it has to be new, it has to look at the technique, et cetera. I believe that this can also be discussed further in the discussion of the EZK budget. So I'm not going to say here: the fund is now going to invest in "from grass to milk." Yeah, that's a bit of a setback, I get that. But in any case, it is certainly not the case that there is a contra-indication; quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u38	Mr Koffeman, I apologize for the long wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u39	I have two questions on this issue, on the Growth Fund. In the announcement of the Growth Fund, the cabinet stated that politics would not interfere with selection. But the fund seems to be making a false start, because apparently the cabinet has already made a pre-selection. So there is still political interference with the projects that have been invited. There has been no opening up to anyone who wants to, so parties have been asked. So my question is, who asked them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u40	Of course, at that later stage, we are going to go through the steps much more precisely. At this stage, things have to go faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u41	But I was talking about this phase. I asked: isn't this a false start, if politics is interfering?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u42	Anyway, of course, we're through corona a little bit with a time squeeze. But we'll make sure it just passes through the committee. He's judging it against all criteria. So we can't go on the fast track here. And one can submit until November 1st, or that could have been done anyway. Projects could have been submitted until 1 November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u43	No, the Ministry has reported that no applications could be made, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u44	I'll find out for the second term, very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u45	Another point is that the Prime Minister says that the award is made by the relevant trade ministers. Does he mean that this is being done formally? The conditions state that the cabinet follows the committee's judgement, unless the proposal assessed by the committee is contrary to the cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u46	If it's rejected, we always follow it. If it is granted, then we still have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u47	This means that the committee is the determining factor for the award and the cabinet only assesses whether it is contrary to government policy or not. That is the only ground on which the cabinet will not follow the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u48	If the committee rejects it, we don't, then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u49	No, I mean if the committee assigns it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u50	If the committee grants, we must, of course, see how much is being awarded. Is it all manageable and budgetary? So we still have a test on it, but it will be rather marginal. We did not set up this whole committee so that we would not make that judgment difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u52	All this must then fit within all the objectives of green, growth, innovation, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u53	Mrs. Fox. Would you also see to it within your group that a mask is worn when walking through the room? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u54	We have a practical question. I find it pleasing to hear that it is probably appropriate, for example, to remove the beast from the chain. It's as innovative as the delta works. I take it that the Prime Minister says no counter-indication. Here's what I'm wondering. Making an application is quite an extensive project. I had to file an NWO application myself once. That's a lot of work and money. Is there something in it to support, for example, a consortium of researchers to apply for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u55	Absolutely, more than anything, as I said just now, also in relation to Mrs Jorritsma's question on SMEs. SMEs can also participate through such a consortium application.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u56	Is it therefore possible, in principle, that, as a consortium of SMEs and companies, you apply for it, that it may be rejected, but that, for example, the tonne of costs will be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u57	You call it the consortium of applications, but if it is rejected, it will be rejected. That is, of course, the risk, otherwise everyone will be making applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u58	Mr President, if I may. Then you have a bit of the same problem that, of course, you have with a lot of researchers who want to get money from the second money stream. You're working on the application for a year. Then your application won't be honored and you'll lose a year. This requires a lot of investment for an innovative project like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u59	It's called survival of the fittest, of course, right? In science, that is a very healthy approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u60	Well, a lot of scientists don't agree with that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u61	That is the case until the application is approved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u62	That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u63	Finalizing, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u64	I hope that will be taken into account. Because precisely in the case of an extensive project, where the colleagues of the Party for Animals...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u65	I think we are going to take that into account in the debate on the EZK budget. I will pass on that question, but in itself it is not intended that you will reimburse the application costs if the application is rejected. Finally, on this issue of economics and public finances, I can say the following. In preparation for the elections, there have been many studies on income and labour market policies, including basic income. For example, this is in the series Chance of the Central Planning Bureau. I would also like to say this in the direction of Mr Gerbrandy. The cabinet is currently working on a contour note for the future of the surcharge system. There too, a basic income will be further investigated. I say this in response to his question. It is not that we are in favour of this, I hasten to say, but we examine everything and then preserve the good. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second final folder: purchasing power, labour market and business. Mr Otten had an important question about the transition fee. Of course, it is a fact that pay is a very important cost for every employer and usually the most important. The NOW grant reduces the burden on companies of payment of wages during this crisis. In addition, employers and employees can agree on ongoing obligations, such as making a wage offer or giving up over-statutory holidays. We also see this happening in practice. Mr Otten is indeed right that when an employer dismisses an employee, the transition fee is in principle at issue. I understand that that can be difficult for companies in those circumstances. Nevertheless, employers and employees are now agreeing between themselves on the level and payment of this transition fee. Payment of the transition fee can be spread over up to six months, if direct payment leads to unacceptable consequences for the employer's business operations. That's what I'm saying in response. I cannot at this moment promise that the whole transition fee will fall into that situation. That's really a bridge too far. I do think that the systems now provide for the best possible way of dealing with this. There, of course, Mr Otten has a point in his own right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u66	I would have thought the Prime Minister would start with the NOW scheme, but that is not the problem. The problem is that there are a lot of companies, especially smaller ones, that make zero turnover and cannot pay their staff, but can also not say goodbye to them because they will have to pay the transition fee. You're in a catch-22 situation, where you can't go anywhere as an entrepreneur. I get a lot of questions, messages and e-mails about this. This is a real problem. I do not have the ready-to-use solution either, but you might think of spreading the fee over a longer period of time or linking it to the company's turnover or own funds. But this really is a life-threatening situation for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. The employee will not benefit from this either, because if these companies go bankrupt, they will not get that transition fee either. So this really is a real problem, which I don't think very well. This is, as we speak, becoming a really big problem. That doesn't solve the NOW scheme. I will table a motion on this later. But I wanted to give that to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u67	At least I'd like to make a commitment. I understand this problem. There are already possibilities to spread it over six months if direct payment is a problem. But here's what I'm gonna do. I am not going to say that we can move on to the substance of this. But as a cabinet, let's figure out what the bottlenecks are in this particular crisis, the corona crisis, with the transition fee, what can be done and whether there are things to come up with. So let me make a promise that I will send such a letter to the Supreme Court. At least I won't, but that letter is then sent by Mr Koolmees who hears that now; he is very happy with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u68	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u69	But I understand this very well. We're gonna need a serious shot at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u70	That's nice. I'll just take off my mouth cap. It's nice that the Prime Minister has agreed to do that. Given the urgency of the situation, it would be nice if we could receive that letter in the reasonably short term. Then I think in terms of weeks rather than months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u71	Let's try to get that letter here by mid-November at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u72	Perfect, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u73	Oh, I don't have to call Wouter Koolmies tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u74	Didn't you say "try"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u75	Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to say that the cabinet has devoted this period of government to reducing the burden on the middle working groups. At the same time, I realise that a large part of the cost of crises goes there. It's a very important group in our society. Mrs Jorritsma, Mr Frentrop and others have referred to the importance of the supporting group in our society. At the moment, the cabinet consciously chooses not to cut back and to provide stability for workers and taxpayers wherever possible. This is, of course, separate from the substantial aid packages designed to help workers through the crisis. That's why burdens aren't being increased now. Fortunately for citizens, the policy burden is falling by around 5 billion in this cabinet period. That is the result of the measures taken by this cabinet. Unfortunately, we do not see a similar pattern in companies; that looks slightly less favourable. But at least we'll see it with the citizens. I do not think that I have entirely given Mrs Bikker the satisfactory answer in dealing fairly with the costs of this crisis, but I think we are doing what we can now by not weighing up the burden in this crisis. As a result, Mrs Jorritsme's question on SMEs is: how can we help them to improve adaptability? The special feature of SMEs, our pearl in the crown, is that they are flexible. They can quickly respond to new market opportunities. But at the same time, especially for smaller companies, it is extremely difficult to compete in a transition to, for example, a sustainable or digital economy, especially when there is a crisis. They often have limited resources. Access to current knowledge is also, of course, more difficult than for larger companies. 100 actions are described in the June 2018 SME Action Plan, precisely to encourage all SMEs to take advantage of the opportunities of innovation. A second progress report has now been produced with a summary of measures for small and medium-sized enterprises in support and recovery packages. This will be sent to the House of Representatives by 2 November at the latest, which is before the budget of Economic Affairs is discussed. Maybe a few examples of that. The Guarantee SME Creditors, the SMEB, and Qredits, the microfinance, have been increased. There are of course also temporary new arrangements, such as the Tozo, the TVL and the guarantee scheme for small businesses, the KKC. You can also see that in sectors co-financing can be requested by partnerships for tailor-made pathways in training, guidance and support to other work. Individual self-employed entrepreneurs and employees can also focus on other jobs through development advice and benefit from training which is temporarily offered free of charge by government subsidies. Self-employed people who have lost work and find it difficult to obtain assignments are eligible for additional support from the municipality. Nearly 50 million is then available from the regular SLIM scheme every year to support SMEs in strengthening a learning culture and SME entrepreneurs can call on SMEs!dee to stimulate investment in human capital. Then, of course, there is the programme Acceleration Digitalization SMEs. The services provided by the Chamber of Commerce also focus in particular on the smaller entrepreneurs. They can then contact the specific corona counter about corona. All this is described in the progress report of 2 November, because we very much agree: in those smaller SMEs, a very large proportion of the Dutch workforce who does not work in one of the public sectors works. They are of vital importance and now, in many cases, they are incredibly difficult in this corona time. Then there is the question about the Borstlap Committee, about the follow-up to that Committee on Employment. There's gonna be a cabinet response. We expect them to be sent in the third week of November to deal with the Social Affairs budget in the House of Representatives. Then there will also be a transcript to the Upper House. This was a question from Mrs Bikker. Mr Schalk asked about the single-earners. I have to say that there are differences, but the differences in the average tax burden between the single and two earners are generally a lot less. To a moderate income the tax burden is almost the same. That does not alter the fact that there are differences. While two-earning workers benefit more from tax reductions that promote participation, this also involves costs, such as childcare. The starting point of the cabinet policy is that a earner is fully profiting from it. Given the composition of the cabinet, that also makes sense. The cabinet has made the tax treatment of one and two-earners more balanced with the flatter rate in the two-wheel system. It therefore makes less difference whether the family income is earned with one or with two persons. In individual cases the tax differences may increase; that is true. The cabinet has therefore dealt with the peaks in marginal pressure that earners sometimes face. The hard income limit in the rent payment has disappeared and the phasing-out point in the child-related budget for couples has been increased. And we're allocating $150 million to increase the child-related budget for large families. Of course, earners benefit relatively more often. The amount that parents with child-related budget get from the third child will increase next year by over €600 per child. So yes, it's true that there are differences. Mr Schalk is right about that, and I am not taking it away. Of course, the phasing-out of the transferable tax rebate and the transfer of the reference minimum wage also have an effect on this. That is all true, but I think that we in this coalition have succeeded in getting that cut-off going and, at the same time, reducing the threat of differences between one and two-earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u76	I know all these numbers too, and I know that it has been worked very hard to stop that huge increase in that gap a little bit, because it was five times as much at first and then six times as much. That's a little stabilized back then, but it's still six times as much load. It's really a huge difference. These budgetary figures also show that it has risen again to almost seven times as much. That's been figured out, too. The NRC even did his fact-finding on that. So, with all the good intentions of the cabinet, that gap is growing a little further. Can't that still be looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u77	More than we are doing now, because we in the coalition have really agreed with each other not to stop or slow down the reduction of the transferable tax rebate, but to take a lot of other measures that favour the reduction of the gap between single-earners and two-earners. I think we found a good balance in that. So I can't promise you that right now. Finally, ask for this package, after which I will end up with the variety series: what are Air France-KLM's shares worth at the moment? They are worth approximately EUR 189 million, which is a daily value. I can only say that we did not buy those shares for the return. It was a strategic purchase. This has always been indicated by the cabinet. Course gain wasn't the goal, more influence in the company was. Let me just ask you a few final questions. One is about the fees. The people who have to deal with the big issue of child care...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u78	Shall we finish the varia and then accumulate the interruptions at once? Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u79	I only have two more questions, or no, three, I think. So one is about the surcharges. The goal is and will remain to compensate the disabled parents as soon as possible. As was also shared in the debates on this in the House of Representatives, the recovery process has proved to be more complex and time-consuming than initially thought. Many of these cases also reveal a much broader problem, such as debt and psychological problems. There is a constant tension between the desire to make speed, the desire to do this carefully with a whole new organization and the desire to really help parents get their lives back on track. That's gonna take more than just wire money. In the plan of approach which Secretary of State Alexandra van Huffelen discussed with the House of Representatives on 15 October, a planning was made in which order different groups of parents will be helped, with priority being given to the most distressing cases. In accordance with that planning, everything is now being done to help parents in the most acute and distressing situations first, with as it can be an integral treatment and otherwise a partial payment or a payment from the emergency facility. We now foresee that 300 to 600 parents will be fully helped this year. How much compensation they receive depends on their individual situation. This comes on top of the more than 100 parents who were already helped in the summer and the 300 parents in the CAF 11 case who were previously helped. The whole group is now in the picture, so 8,300 parents will be re-evaluated before the end of next year, with people being given an indication when they will be due by the beginning of next year at the latest. This is far from ideal. I would have preferred it to be different with Van Huffelen and I would have preferred to have been able to pay out a larger group of people by now. That is simply not possible, but well, that whole debate has also been held in the House of Representatives. We have now begun to do justice to the distressing situation these parents are in. Then a question was asked about the benefit for the members of the Royal House. I would like to point out that this debate has also taken place on the other side. At that time, I undertook to carry out the D66 Sneller motion on an evaluation of the B component. It is about the personnel and material costs of the Royal House. I also promised to see if and if so, how the so-called A component of income could be involved. I explained that the Royal House Financial Statute Act adopted in 2008, as you know, in an updated form with the required two-thirds majority, has no relationship with the Top Income Standards Act, as suggested here and there. Furthermore, I think I would like to refer to this point, because the investigation that Mr Koffeman suggested really goes much further and establishes a relationship with the WNT that is really not there. I don't want to do that kind of research either. Then we were asked whether we could still manage to deal with a proposal for a return right before the elections. In September, the Minister for BZK discussed with this Chamber the recommendations of the State Commission. The Cabinet shares the conclusion of the State Committee that there is a need for a return right. There's a proposal in preparation. The Council of State still has to advise on it. We'll do our best to file it as soon as possible. This is it, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u80	In the context of the varia two questions. I think it's funny that the Prime Minister says, "Yeah, we bought those KLM shares for 744 million, they're still worth 166 million now, but we didn't care about the return at all, so who cares? Well, that's a little poignant, isn't it? In a year's time, KLM's value has fallen in such a way that the stock market value is currently 1.3 billion. This means that for last year's investment you could buy 50% of all Air France-KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u81	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u82	The point is that you're releasing 3.5 billion to save a company that's worth only 1.5 billion and that's in a huge glide. While if you land it, even if it's a soft landing, you can redeem all of KLM from Air France. That is what the question was about, of course, because what the shares are worth at the moment, I can also check in the newspaper myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u83	This is an explanation of the question. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u84	Where do I start? The corona crisis. Mr Koffeman may know that there is almost no more flying. When we bought those shares, we couldn't quite predict that thirteen months later a virus would appear that would have such an impact on the aviation industry. But it is also not our hobby to buy shares in companies and then to arrange with the profits on those shares pieces of state financing. That's something for pension funds or investment funds. We don't. The only reason why we bought that share in the company is that KLM and Schiphol are crucial to the Dutch economy and that we wanted to be more involved in some crucial decisions and to have more certainty about KLM's state guarantees in the wider Air France-KLM context. That is the only reason why we have done so. And not to make a profit on those shares. Then don't buy airline shares if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u85	Looking back, we didn't know when we bought 744 million shares that there was going to be a corona crisis. I understand that very well. But right now, we do know there's a corona crisis. We also know that the entire company Air France-KLM is worth only 1.3 billion. And you're now guaranteeing more than 3 billion. That's odd. In a free market economy, it can be a soft landing and we can buy all of Air France-KLM for the same money, or KLM alone if necessary. That could also be an interesting scenario. The Prime Minister doesn't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u86	This is not the shareholders' meeting of ASN Bank or any other bank with idealistic goals, which has to explain why a particular investment is less effective than it had expected. This is the state. And the State, we all have a vital interest in a strong Schiphol. KLM is important for the entire hub function of Schiphol. Schiphol is the second busiest airport in Europe and the most connected airport in Europe, while we have an economy four times smaller than the French and the British and five times smaller than the German. This is vital for our investment climate. Because we had the feeling that decisions were taken on this company which we were able to learn at times too late or too little influence, while it is of such great importance to the Netherlands, we bought a share in that company. That is, of course, always a risk. The aviation industry is a risky investment anyway, and if a virus shows up 13 months later, that investment is even more risky.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u87	Mr Koffeman, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u88	Yeah, it makes sense to talk about that with each other. This will not only be possible in the context of an interrupting debate. The acquisition of the shares may be for strategic reasons, but they were strategic reasons that were not parliamentaryly verifiable. The Court of Auditors has said that this has not been done in accordance with the rules. According to the rules, we have established that this investment has fallen enormously in value. Now, not looking back, we have to observe that the cabinet is willing to release a multiple of the value of Air France-KLM to keep a technically bankrupt company in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u89	That was three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u90	All airlines are going through difficult times worldwide at the moment, because very large commitments, rental or possession of aircraft and of course large personnel files face a very limited number of flight movements. But that is basically a temporary phenomenon. I think that Mr Koffeman and I have a somewhat more fundamental difference of opinion on how to maintain the Dutch investment climate and business climate. I think that includes a strong airport. Yeah, she's gotta green it up, too. If he were to say that now, I would agree. They're working on that, too. But you really need a strong airport in the Netherlands, because you want companies to settle here, that companies stay here that have an interest in connections with a lot of countries outside but also within Europe. And there Schiphol offers a great service and there KLM is very easy to offer. The fact that this sector is now suffering from corona is a fact throughout Europe. Look at the 10 billion that the German government is pumping into Lufthansa. They don't do that either because they're an investment firm that thinks: hey, that's funny on my best German "eine allerliebste Occasion" to spray away 10 billion. No, the Germans do this because they think Lufthansa is very important for the hub function of Munich, Frankfurt and Hamburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u91	It was your third, Mr. Koffeman. Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u92	The last time, Mr. Chairman, because we're talking a little bit past each other. We're not talking about lifting KLM. We're talking about when KLM would make a soft landing, you're relieved of all lease contracts of highly polluting aircraft and then you can decide for yourself how to get that start-up form. That start-up could be cheaper than guaranteeing yourself for a company that has huge long-term kerosene contracts and enjoys leasing companies in Ireland. So we give that 3.4 billion away to leasing companies in Ireland, while this soft landing could make sure that the cabinet, just like ABN AMRO, SNS Bank and other banks, can make it healthy. So it is not KLM or KLM, but another solution would be quite conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u93	Thank you. Then Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u94	I'm afraid it's more uncomfortable than this quick home option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u95	Finally, another terrible bouncer: the demise of the Tax Administration. We were just talking about the supplemental affair. An investigation is now under way in the First and Second Chambers. I briefly described that. I won't repeat that here, but I'd like you to say something about it. I have indicated that the citizen must assume that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u96	No, no. You're going to repeat yourself now. You did keep that story, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u97	I asked a question at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u98	The Prime Minister has not yet responded, you are right. I'm going to give you an opportunity to ask a question. But repeating your first term cannot be the issue now. Go ahead, ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u99	I have to repeat that question, because it has not been answered. I can hardly say alone that my question has not been answered, because then the Minister knows...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u100	That's right. If you would like to repeat the question, please, but not the whole introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u101	Mr President, I have not received an answer to my last question on the Tax Administration and the two Finance Ministers. Then I'll have to repeat that question first, won't I? I can't say: read page 6, at the top, because the Prime Minister doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u102	No, I think the Prime Minister remembers your question. So he can repeat it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u103	I had understood it more as a reflection, as a cri de coeur and not as a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u104	What are you gonna do about getting the IRS back on track? I'm also looking at the Minister of Finance. He heard it right at the end, too. What do you think about the formation of two Finance Ministers, one with Europe and one with the budget and taxation, so that the Minister in the Council of Ministers can defend the tax? Then you also have the situation that both legislation and implementation are united with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u105	The second is to be placed at the formation table. That's not up to me. First, I have to see if I want to join them at all. I have yet to make that decision. And then the voter has to make that possible. First my party has to find something and then the voter. All this remains to be seen, so let me not anticipate a formation, of which I do not know what my role is in it. The more fundamental question is about the Tax Administration. May I begin by saying that there are tens of thousands of people working there. Mr. Van Rooijen knows this. Most of them belong to the group of people in the Netherlands who work every day for the public administration and for the national interest. I have the utmost respect for that. Yes, some serious problems have also been discovered at the IRS. That is one of the reasons why Hoekstra, as Minister of Finance, has advocated doing so at the official summit, but also in the appointment of two State Secretarys instead of one State Secretary as the successor of Menno Snel. On the one hand, for example, you have someone who can work fully on the issue of allowances, in particular the issue of childcare payments and the resolution of that very serious issue, and on the other hand someone who can work on the broader development of the Tax Administration and the wider taxation. We made that choice precisely because this is so important. What I fear when we talk about it like this: there are indeed tens of thousands of people working at the Tax Office, or almost 30,000 people, from whom I want them to realize every day with their heads held high and with pride that they are doing something very important for the Netherlands. Because this is the only club that makes any money. All the other officials are spending money. They're the only club that gets the money. They do so conscientiously and with the best intentions. And yes, things have not gone well in recent years, including in ICT and with the surcharges. We're solving that one step at a time. My experience in 25 years of work in business and politics is that there are no fast routes to such a solution. It requires tenacity, perseverance, to get there. I am sure that the best people are now working on this; both the Secretary of State under the guidance of this minister and the official summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u106	You have rightly recognised the importance of the Tax Administration. It was the best in the world until a time ago. It is very unfortunate that after 2002, but also over the last ten years, the Tax Administration has gradually gone under water for all kinds of reasons. It is essential to regain confidence in the Tax Administration. If we can put this together in the years to come, I think the taxpayers will again know that they are being treated well. I would also stress that these 30,000 people, apart from exceptions, have been doing a great job for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u107	If, as you rightly said, that service was always one of the best in the world and the goal of all of us is that it should happen again, then those 30,000 people are still among the best in the world anyway. These people are not responsible for the vast majority of cases. Admittedly, a few things didn't go well there either. But the vast majority of people, as Mr Van Rooijen says, are still among the best in the world. With that material and with those people, it must be possible to bring it back to that level. There's no way we can do that with a fast route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u108	Mr. Van Rooijen, a third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u109	I have to do it in the form of a question. It's actually more of an advice, but I'll just ask. Would you also like to look at the expertise of the Secretary of State at the formation? That doesn't mean the current one, but it's about a pattern. In the last twenty years there have been State Secretarys who had no fiscal background and who did not come from the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u110	For these two Secretary of State and also the predecessors, I put my hand in the fire. Mr. Van Rooijen always wants me at the formation table. That's what he can achieve by, in case I'm again the leader of the VVD, I really don't know how to vote for that party. Then he can promote it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u111	I was triggered by Mr Koffeman, who brought up the KLM. Now Mr Koffeman and I probably have a completely different approach to KLM. The Prime Minister just said: we couldn't predict that we would lose money on that. That, of course, is not entirely correct. I said in an interview on TV a few weeks after that investment last year: this is a political investment; this is never going to make money. I didn't expect it to be that dramatic. But voilà, that's what happened. You're gonna have to look ahead, not backwards. We're now what is it? 80% of the investment is lost. We've thrown another 3 billion into it, but we have no control and no upside. That is why I said in my first term: look at a scenario with a kind of skeleton-KLM. I also mentioned this in July when we talked to Minister Hoekstra about the rescue package. I mean, take KLM out of Air France and put half the boxes in the mothballs, because you don't need them now. When corona is over, you can at least use a national airline for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u112	What's your question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u113	Let me explain. I had the impression that the Prime Minister could take advantage of that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u114	You just said you said this in your first term. So you are now repeating your first term. I don't think that's necessary. What's your question right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u115	A meaningful exchange of ideas. You cut everyone off all the time, but we're an hour ahead of schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u116	I should like to point out to you, however, that interruptions are intended for short supplementary questions. That is what the Rules of Procedure state. We all accepted that. The statements make you in your term. You've done the same. That's what you're referring to. The Prime Minister may have forgotten to answer your question or to answer it. Then, of course, you are quite right to remind him of that. I'm sure he'll welcome that, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u117	I'll ask my question. Is this a scenario that is now being considered seriously? I believe that the situation has deteriorated enormously since July. There will therefore need to be other solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u118	Let us not speculate in public about scenarios here. I don't think that's a good idea. Well, here's what I can say. Minister Hoekstra has promised to inform the House of Representatives confidentially, with all conceivable scenarios always on the table. The commitment to the Lower House was that the Minister understands with the President of the Upper Chamber about how the Upper Chamber can also be involved, so that you can participate in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u119	That's very nice. That didn't happen last time that investment was made. At that time, the General Court also stated that this was not right. So it's nice that this will happen next time. I welcome this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u120	I have one more question from Mr Rosenmöller on the situation of young people, but I will keep the answer to that. His first comment relates to the commitment to examine the situation of young people and education in the second period. So if Mr Rosenmöller thinks he has not received the answer to his question, then I say that this answer is still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u121	Thank you, Prime Minister. We now come to the second term of the Chamber, if it were not for Mrs Faber to have a short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u122	I think the Prime Minister accidentally forgot a question. It was about the voluntary contribution to the United Nations. How high is it budgeted for 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u123	I don't know. I'll get back to you on that. I didn't understand that question in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u124	Is the Prime Minister going to return to that in the second term, or is he just going to come later, and is he now promising that he will send that to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u125	I hate to send letters, because it takes a lot of time. So if I can do it, I'll answer the question in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u126	Thank you. We shall now come to the second term on the part of the Chamber. Before I give the floor to Mr Frentrop, I must correct something. I concluded in my earlier investigations that only the Labour Party had spared a few minutes' speaking time, but Mr Frentrop also managed to do so on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. So I will give Mr Frentrop a little more credit for the two minutes allocated to most groups, except those of the PvdA. Mr. Frentrop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had asked three questions in the first period, twelve hours ago, about policy priorities. I haven't used much of those 12 hours. The Prime Minister's answer to one of my questions was: we do not stop immigration, because that is not a cabinet policy. But the Prime Minister has only quoted half of my question. My question was: will we stop immigration until the housing shortage is resolved? Immigration is one of the causes of housing shortage. I must now conclude from the Prime Minister's reply that the choice of the cabinet is to allow immigration to continue. That's more important than solving the housing shortage. My second question was about international agreements. The Prime Minister replied: I am not going to withdraw what I said in Brussels in July. On that point, too, my question is only half quoted. My question was: could you suspend what you promised in Brussels until we get our own finances back in order, which have been affected by corona? I had reason to ask that question, because the situation is different now than when you made that commitment in Brussels. We have now heard this yesterday from the government, with a second wave. When you were in Brussels, you were allowed to travel to Brussels. In the Macro Economic Exploration we still assumed a scenario without a second wave. That second wave is here now. The macro-economic recognition does not say very much about this, because there is no knowledge of it, except that it is going to be very bad and that unemployment will rise to 10%. So if the Prime Minister makes a commitment to help other countries, France, Italy, when we assume that there will be no second wave, then I think that the second wave is a reason to look back and ask the question: can I live up to these agreements? That's why I tabled a motion. The President shall: Mr Frentrop, Mr Berkhout, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Macro Economic Exploration 2021, which is the basis for the Millions Note, does not rely on a second wave scenario in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that when a large-scale recovery package was agreed at EU level in July 2020, a second corona wave in the Netherlands was not the starting point;]] [[noting that, according to the Cabinet, there is now a second corona wave;]] [[noting that the basis of the present Millions Note is thus obsolete;]] [[calls on the government to withdraw its support for the EU recovery package promised in July 2020 and to identify as soon as possible the impact of the current covid developments of the second wave on the Dutch economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u128	The third question I asked the Prime Minister was whether we could not postpone some of these expensive climate measures, such as taking homes off the gas, until the corona crisis is over. No, we're just going through with the climate, according to the Prime Minister. The climate is a priority, so I'll translate it for a moment. It is more important to reduce global warming by 0.00007°C while addressing the second corona wave. I conclude that the electorate will have a clear choice in the elections. The priorities of the current coalition are: immigration over housing shortage, unemployed Italians and French helping unemployed Dutch people and combating global warming is just as important as solving the corona crisis. That's clear. I've learned something. I have also learned something from Mr Rosenmöller today, namely that the distinction between the left and the right does not really exist anymore; VVD and GroenLinks broadly agree. They have the same ideas about the course for Dutch society. I didn't hear that contradicted by the VVD. Now everything happens in the Netherlands a bit later than in the rest of the world, but we can say that the end of history, which Fukuyama demonstrated in 1992 for the rest of the world, also reached the Netherlands by the end of 2020. Those were the lessons I took today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u129	Thank you, Mr. Fentrop. Mrs Jorritsma has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u130	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for his inspiring answers to almost all the questions asked, even a question I have not asked. I had not asked the question about SMEs at all with the Growth Fund, but it was in an old version. It's likely that you accidentally faced it. I asked that question in a different context, and you answered it neatly. Mr. Chairman. I have a few comments to make. I did not interrupt in my first term when Mrs Faber of the PVV spoke. As far as what I said about how we relate to the First Chamber is concerned, I actually come to the conclusion that everything Mrs Faber has said is precisely not in line with that. I'm very sorry about that. I thought the story was pretty disrespectful. At some point I give up and I sit down, but it's a shame that we hang out like this in this house. I very much regret that, and I would like to make that point. Then there is my second point of substance. Discrimination isn't left, it's not right. The fight against discrimination should belong to all of us. It is, of course, Article 1 of our Constitution. So I'm not gonna let you push me into the booth that, because I took an initiative with Paul Rosenmöller, we suddenly look alike. I can tell you that in the stories we have both kept, there are still enough differences between GroenLinks and the VVD that we will fight about. Perhaps, if we go further in the debate on combating discrimination, we will also come to the conclusion that we sometimes do not think exactly the same about it. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's what we're here for. I have been active in politics for almost 40 years and I know that life consists of ideas and compromises. I have also been married for almost 50 years, and that has only been possible with a few compromises from time to time. Life's like this for once. No one's gonna find anything I find. You have to live with that. So I just don't accept that you would have suddenly become almost one party. I was very pleased with what the Prime Minister said about being proud of who we are. He mentioned the inspiring connection that arises when people are sufficiently integrated into society and when they are proud of our values. An inspiring connection of free people and a shield for the weak. That's the best I can say. It is exactly as I stand in society and as my party certainly is in it. Finally, Mr President, on the Growth Fund. Oh, no, not about the Growth Fund; I have already said what I wanted to say. I welcome what the Prime Minister said about SMEs and that a separate letter will be sent to the Second and, I presume, also to the First Chamber. We shall then look at them, and I hope that my questions about the small businesses at this time will be partly or perhaps completely answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u131	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I call Mr Rosenmöller on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u132	Mr President, thank you very much. A word of thanks to the Prime Minister. His first term exuded experience and expertise. It is also nice to see and to hear that it is public in favour of changing its views over time, when it comes to the European Union or the value of the public sector. It usually happens to ex-premiers, but with this prime minister it happens just before he becomes ex-premier. That's all interesting to see, so late in the evening in the First Chamber. I would like to tell you about the core tasks of the government. That will also be a new insight in you; I am sure of that. You said about these core tasks: it is about security and it is about the economy and jobs. I don't want to change that, but there's one element missing in that. That is that, with each other and also as a government, we have an expensive duty to pass on the quality of the earth we live on to a next generation through sustainability or stewardship. That is a core task and I ask you to share that core task and to add it to the list of two. In your answer I found you at one point a little too easy or too nonchalant. For example, the 100 people of Moria were involved, or, for example, the reaction to Mr Frentrop and the respect that you may, of course, express for the fact that he wants to close the borders while the housing shortage still exists. Mr Frentrop also knows very well: that will take some time. I find that all a little on the nonchalant side. That is also what I thought in the debate we had with regard to young people. I hope you will come back to that and we will see how the debate is going in this area. Because fighting inequality of opportunity or incorporating equality of opportunity as a standard in government cannot be free beer, as I said. That is what you have to do in practice, in difficult circumstances. The whole issue of unequal treatment or the growing inequality outlined by many of your advisers must be adequately addressed. I do not see this in government policy or insufficiently. Mr. Chairman. I was pleased with and, frankly, proud of the great attention of this Chamber to the whole issue of prejudice, discrimination and racism in a multitude of areas. I am also proud that we, from the VVD and GroenLinks, are thinking the same thing right now in our analysis. It would be even better if that were unanimous, but it doesn't seem to be. Nevertheless, on behalf of a large majority represented here in the Chamber, I would like to table the following motion. The President shall: Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Jorritsma-Lebbink, Mr Bredenoord, Mr Bikker, Mr Vos, Mr Knapen, Mr Kox, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Koffeman and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the prohibition of discrimination is firmly enshrined in the Constitution and is reflected in other laws;]] [[noting that, according to various reports and publications, discrimination continues to occur in the Netherlands, not only between citizens, but also in public administrations and within highly regulated sectors and wider in society, and that such discrimination sometimes has a systemic character;]] [[Mainly that there is a gap between the paper law and the law in practice;]] [[noting that it is the task of the First Chamber to review legislation for compliance with the Constitution and other legislation and for feasibility and enforcement;]] [[considers that the gap mentioned above calls for a coherent analysis and assessment of the causes and solutions and the possible role that Parliament can play in them;]] [[points out that it is desirable to explore how a parliamentary inquiry pursuant to Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the First Chamber of the States General can be conducted into the causes of the difference between the paper law and the law in practice and why anti-discriminatory provisions in legislation are not sufficiently effective;]] [[decides, in accordance with the previous parliamentary inquiry, first to establish a temporary special committee with a limited preparatory task and duration pursuant to Rule 34, second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, which will be responsible for the elaboration of the questioning, scope and modalities of the parliamentary inquiry in question, after which the Chamber will decide on the parliamentary inquiry itself,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u133	I should like to conclude by referring to my first term. The fact that we are able to take this step with a great deal of commonality does, however, have a relationship with the part of my story which dealt with the desirability and, above all, the need to work together to a great extent on the major issues of our time. I will not mention them now, I have already done so in the first term. I have made it clear where these more fundamental dividing lines lie. This has been confirmed by the interruptions in this debate. Mr Frentrop and I fundamentally disagree. Mrs Faber and I fundamentally disagree. You are heading in a different direction with the anti-European story, with the climate story and with the closing of the Netherlands. That story is in the direction and in the values that lie beneath it so far away from the vast majority I see here, despite the fact that that large majority also has considerable differences among themselves. That is all interesting, interesting for the urgency, interesting for the pace, but much less interesting for the direction. Your direction is not ours. That's okay. We can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u134	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u135	I would have liked to ask for a more detailed explanation of where exactly that difference is between us. I tried to set priorities in my second term. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb niet dit óf dat gezegd.]] I just told you what to do first. You have deduced that there is an unbridgeable difference between the way in which the Forum for Democracy thinks and the way in which all the other parties in this Chamber think. However, I would like to ask what facts you base that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u136	Could you do that briefly, Mr. Rosenmöller?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u137	Yeah, based on the three questions you asked the cabinet. All these other parties are in favour of solving the climate problem and you will find it temporarily, or perhaps less temporarily, discarded money. All other parties, except you and the PVV, do not think that you should lock the Netherlands and you do, whether temporarily or not. With regard to the European Union, a large majority of this Chamber believes that the European Union, even with the new insights of the Prime Minister, is more than market and currency, but you think that the money spent by the Dutch cabinet last summer has been thrown away. That is a different direction, that is an anti-European direction and most of them are in favour of a pro-European solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u138	It's starting to make sense to me. But it's late at night, so I suggest we talk about it separately again, because I think there are some misunderstandings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u139	Excellent. Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. Then I give the floor to Mr Knapen, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u140	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister very much for the detailed answer and the way in which he has taken us into his ongoing education. We appreciate that very much. I must also say that I find it a little more relaxing to discuss here when the whole cabinet is not sitting here. Because I always get a slight feeling of discomfort when you see all those people, who often actually have a very busy day, sitting on the back of those benches working in files, hoping that at some point such a day will pass. This is actually much more relaxed in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u141	This won't help me next year!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u142	This is not for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u143	Mr. Chairman. I have two brief comments. My question about nitrogen was: is this enough, what the cabinet recently announced? I hear that a number of very large infrastructure projects cannot continue, because they may still be built there, but they will not be allowed to run trains and cars, because that will put too much nitrogen at risk. Is that right? Another point is drug crime. You referred to the 100 million; we know that. What we were concerned with was that Noordanus report, in which it is said that this must be a programme that you have to persevere for about ten years. So that goes over a period of government. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my final remark. My group is always extremely reluctant to go to the interrupting microphone when Mrs Faber lets her annual verbal flamethrower go through the room. Let me therefore confine myself now to the observation that we continue to work with other groups to preserve the rule of law and a peaceful society, in which everyone counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u144	Will Mr. Knapen now say that the PVV does not abide by the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u145	What I am saying is that we want to continue to work on maintaining the rule of law and a peaceful society, in which everyone counts. This means that we do not discriminate between people who believe in one faith or another, nor do we discriminate between one church society and another. These are elements that fit into the core of our rule of law. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u146	You're talking about "we." Are we in your "we" as a PVV, or is that different? Or is that a us and her?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u147	I'd like to bounce that question back. As far as we are concerned, I am speaking on behalf of my group. But I would like to hear when I can speak on behalf of the PVV Group in this case too. That would be a nice lock this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u148	Mrs Faber, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u149	Well, it seems like a big party when we're gonna talk together about, for example, fighting Islam. Certainly you, with your Christian backgrounds, should appeal to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u150	I think it's time, as far as I'm concerned, to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u151	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I call Mrs Vos, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u152	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of my group, I would like to say that I am impressed by this government and also by the Prime Minister. We've all just been watching the press conference. This cabinet is under high pressure. We have a great deal of respect for the way in which the cabinet does all of this: to be honest and to try to look forward at the same time. When we listened to the press conference, the concern for the employees in the care took me back to the heart. This is really not going well. We're really worried about the people who are just walking around on the shoes. That was also a significant part of our contribution. We're worried about the burnouts coming up and people falling out. There are also a lot of health care workers sick. They're either at home with corona or quarantined. So the pressure on the people who do work is very high. I even had a motion prepared, also supported by many colleagues, to remove everything now to relieve the pressure. However, the Prime Minister had a number of measures, which we will also be briefed on how they will do so. This includes the use of people from the catering industry, the KLM, the event industry and the cultural sector. Those people can do different things. We had a whole list of things, also because we have a colleague in the group who is in the mud of disability care and knows exactly what she is talking about. Those are things like just arranging repairs. For example, someone who has experience in logistics can make the new schedules. Restaurant planners and Booking.com can help. We were also curious whether the government included in these plans that there are a number of people in the medical sector who are now in a scaled-down sector. I call surgeons who don't have to do anything. Are these people also asked to help with the GD, for example? That would be a very good way to use the available healthcare capacity in those areas where these people are desperately needed. We also think of very small practical things, such as giving someone five or six days in a row a meal at home. So the question to the government is: are these things also in the planning? Then we do not have to table our motion and we are also very curious about the report of the cabinet. That's very acute. In addition, we are pleased that the government is continuing to pursue climate change measures. This was also reflected in the reply to the Forum colleague. Maybe there's also an opening for getting the beast out of the chain. Also in this cabinet, a number of colleagues are of course just doing top sports with the corona crisis. Some of my colleagues have a little less of that. We also really hope that the Secretary of State responsible for the refugee crisis will be working very hard in the coming weeks to bring the people who are now in Moria here. This cannot take much longer. We would like to hear from the cabinet as soon as possible what progress has been made on this point. Finally. It's honing and it's looking ahead. I wish the cabinet much strength in the coming weeks and I also wish a little consensus that we can support the cabinet here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Mrs Bredenoord has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u154	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We can agree or disagree on the content, or on the priorities, but my group respects how he works day and night in this crisis. He's actually been doing that for ten years as Prime Minister. Earlier this evening, when we all had a big dinner break, we heard the Prime Minister say at the press conference that there will be opinions on Christmas holidays, skiing and spring. This was actually exactly what we meant by better and more European coordination. It was actually a very good example. I was wondering whether this would actually be a European opinion. Or does each country come up with its own plan, with all the uncertainty? Which country can you or can't you go to? Which country do you have to be tested for, et cetera? In my view, this is a good example of how the Prime Minister can promote coordination in the field of public health. We had a motion ready, but the Prime Minister has already gone into this very deeply in the first term. Mr President, I have one final comment. These are the last General Political Reviews of this cabinet, of which my party, D66, is a member. As I said before, decisive changes have been made in the areas of climate and pensions, among other things. The trend has turned, but it's not enough yet. We certainly can't sit back. The future chair, the empty chair that represents future generations in decision-making, appears to be far more relevant than we thought last year. Equality of opportunity is still under pressure from the corona crisis. So we have an assignment on that point. We wish the cabinet success in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u155	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would first like to thank the Prime Minister for his answers. It's not the answers I'm really waiting for, but he did answer the questions. I shall begin with the parliamentary investigation into discrimination in the Netherlands. I am very curious if they will also investigate the discriminatory nature of Islam, because of course we will be able to do so at some point. I am also curious to see whether the government is looking at the discrimination against the Dutch. I have said before that there is really no need for research, because the PVV can give you the answers. But I'm afraid they're more likely to hang their ears on organizations like BLM, who prefer to flar the system if it doesn't meet their requirements. Already the leftist activist Gideon Everduim was in the Catshuis with the Prime Minister. This Gideon Everduim advocates a separate political party for black Dutch. Well, you've got to be able to do it. Imagine someone else here suggesting to set up a party for white Dutchmen. I hear Mrs. Jorritsma say something. Do you have a question, Mrs. Jorritsma? 'Cause then I'll invite you to the Interrupt Microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u157	No, no, no. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u158	Oh, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u159	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u160	But she's getting up!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u161	The person giving the floor here is the chairman. I'm not doing that right now. Your speaking time will continue, because I am speaking now. So it's best if you speak yourself again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u162	Oh, you're going to speak for me. That's gonna be interesting. In view of the reactions of the various parties, the PVV views have in any case come across well. I can assure you that we in this house will continue to name the problems in our own way. I'd like to file another motion. It's about the UN. I would have liked to have an answer from the Prime Minister first, but I didn't have one. This motion is also tabled by the Forum for Democracy. The President shall: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Bezaan, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien and Mr Frentrop proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch economy is shrinking significantly;]] [[noting that the ODA budget is linked to the development of GNI, with the result that the ODA budget should be reduced by 500 million, which is not done;]] [[whereas the contribution to the UN in 2020 amounts to EUR 503 million, of which EUR 484 million is voluntary;]] [[Whereas the use of the contribution to the UN cannot be controlled by the States General;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the voluntary contribution to the UN,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. Kst-35570-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u163	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u164	Thank you, Mrs Faber. The letter F of "Faber." I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bikker on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a whole walkway to the speaker chair. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. As ever, it was energetic and inspiring. We do not always agree, but there is fire in it, which my group very much appreciates. Thanks also to the Minister for Finance, who has been listening so diligently all this time and supporting the Prime Minister. And, of course, thanks to all the members of the cabinet who are stuck to the pipe and have to miss this fantastic study. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister spoke about the strong government, its rediscovery and, above all, the power of communities. I think we can find each other in a different language dress, in thinking from those communities and from people looking for what's good for our society. Exactly that, with a shield from the government for the weak, is something we will have to hold on to in these times. In the long run, that's the spirit that can drag us through, whether that vaccine comes soon or it lasts longer. Because the gaps are getting bigger and it is the task of this cabinet to make meters precisely on that point. For the Group of the Christian Union, recovery of the economy is therefore certainly high in the priority list, but in a way that we resource into what is important and how we keep it in order sustainably. I would like to put a small question to the Prime Minister on this point. I referred him to the report of the WRR, entitled Reflections on the Corona Crisis. I asked him if he would like to come back to those recommendations more specifically at another time. Because that is long-term work, and I will not have to do that anymore tonight, but I can imagine that we will continue to think about it when we talk about those long lines. With regard to the labour market, we are now waiting for the third week of November with joy and joy. Then comes the reaction to the Borstlap Committee. I hope that the labour law section will also really be included in this. I can express that expectation, because the Prime Minister has already provided Minister Koolmees with homework. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, the most important question is how we can manage this together as a society that we want to be, not polarized but for each other. I was pleased to see the Prime Minister, on the eve of this evening, as well as the mayor's role in enforcement. I would also like to say: but also as a figurehead and as a citizen's father or citizen's mother of the places where they are situated. On that point, I would like to call on the cabinet to put the mayors, together with the Minister of the Interior, in that position. That starts with just exchanging what works and what doesn't. Can the cabinet come back to that shortly? As far as drugs are concerned, because, unfortunately, crime goes on; that is what I can entirely agree with Mr Knapen's words. The Noordanus Committee has made it clear that more is needed than what this cabinet delivers. The Prime Minister has once again expressed the good commitment that the cabinet is already making, but it is precisely the step forward that needs to be taken, and that is long-term. So that delta plan is more than what the cabinet is doing right now. I wanted to put that back in response to what the Prime Minister said in the first term. Finally, Mr President. I think we're moving forward together. That will apply to all of us, but that also means that the billing of this crisis will have to be fair. We didn't quite agree on that yet. That doesn't have to be done, because the bill doesn't have to be paid now. But I think we agree that this should not be taken into account by the middle class, by the tax-paying citizen who took care of the previous crisis. I think that's how we can find the best place for our society. In our previous Chamber, one thing is a little more beautiful than in this Chamber. That's all I have to complain about. But I'm talking about the ceiling with those kids from State looking down. I think we can keep them all in mind, especially at this time. For them, we do it, we go through with it, we go through with it. I would like the cabinet and the hard-working ministers, even those who are not present, to be very strong and very supportive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u166	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I hear someone slap. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of... From the SP; I wasn't finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the President, who even makes the announcement of us as speakers exciting. I would like to thank the Finance Minister, who has been working all day while we were talking here. I wonder how much money he's gotten through, Mr. Prime Minister. And I thank the Prime Minister for the answers. I'm glad there's a return law proposal coming up. I am angry because we are unable to pay the victims of the tax scandal on time. I am dissatisfied with the fact that the Prime Minister has not answered my core questions about corona, such as: what if, in corona time, the existing contradictions are further increased? I'm not asking this because I think it is, but because all the planning agencies indicate it. What's the government's plan? I would really like to receive a letter from the government so that this Chamber can talk about this. We trust that the government will do whatever is necessary, but I believe that Parliament should be able to see if we can support the plans as they are going to be implemented. This is a debate on government policy and we are entitled to it. So, please make a commitment or there will be a letter describing the coherence of the approach that should prevent the corona crisis from widening the existing contradictions even further, so that Parliament can talk about it. I have not received an answer to my request to give additional support to the workers in the care sector, who are to help us through the next phase of this pandemic. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Vos, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Frentrop, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Schalk, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[given the enormous impact of the coronapandemic on society;]] [[noting that in combating the pandemic, the use of our caregivers is invaluable;]] [[calls on the government to pay the bonus already promised for this year as a one-off valuation for healthcare professionals as a matter of urgency;]] [[and calls on the Government also to allow for structural improvement in the financial appreciation of healthcare providers in 2021 and to provide sufficient budgetary space for that purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u168	I hope that the groups which did not co-sign the motion will nevertheless consider supporting the motion. Finally, I am pleased to be able to help the government which always likes to have the same opinion expressed in both Parliament's houses. Maybe it is a bit surprising on the other side, here it is conscious, because that also fits in the room of reflection. When two chambers say something has to happen, I want to see the government saying, "We're not going to do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u169	Thank you, Mr Kox. I shall now give the floor to Mr Koffeman, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u170	Thank you, Mr President. I had already congratulated the Prime Minister on his optimism in the first term. I'm allowed to do that in second term with his verbal agility. He has also shown them before in the Lower House. When it comes to the salary of members of the Royal House, he laughs it away or says that they are out of everything and in any case have nothing to do with the Law norming top incomes. Maybe that's the problem. In these corona times other monarchs do we have very few, at least to which we can mirror ourselves differently. Prince Albert of Monaco has decided to give up 40% of his salary, because he says: in these corona times you should not make it too wild. Crown Princess Elisabeth of Belgium has said: yes, it would be a bit too much if I got €925,000 on my 18th; let's not do that, I'll just give that back to the Belgian state. In the Netherlands it stays quiet and it is said, for example today: the Royal House is completely outside the Wet norming top incomes. Of course, they have something to do with it, namely that they are an exception to it. That's interesting. I think it would be good to take a look at the social support for public functions that are honored outside the Top Income Standards Act and which are therefore basically out of the question. You can't do it to people at this time that they're out of everything. In that sense, I think it would be useful to investigate this. I have the next motion for that. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Kox and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of the Top Income Standards Act is to set an upper limit on the remuneration of public service functions;]] [[Whereas maximum remuneration for public functions should be regularly reviewed;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct an independent investigation into the public support base for the exclusion of public functions of the WNT, including its legal indexation, and to inform the Chamber of the results within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u171	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and I wish Minister Hoekstra strength in this particular role, lonely but not only behind the government table. I particularly appreciate the Prime Minister's response to cooperation within Europe and the European Union between the Member States, the larger countries, the blocs. I thought that was a very positive explanation and a look at how things are going behind the scenes. We had, I would almost say "again," a lively debate. I'm looking forward to next year. You may understand the undertone: we had a lively debate on pensions. I have two motions for resolutions on this matter. Firstly, a motion on pension rebates. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the threat of substantial pension reductions is putting a great strain on the transition to the envisaged new pension system;]] [[Whereas averting large pension reductions should not be motivated by electoral considerations surrounding the Lower House elections;]] [[calls on the Government to embrace a definitive solution that eliminates the threat of pension reductions during the transition period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u172	A second motion on pensions. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to bring closer indexing of pensions by applying a fixed calculation rate of at least 2% during the transition period to the envisaged new pension system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u173	Finally, a motion on the purchasing power of pensioners, which is close to zero, namely just above it. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the employment discount is increased by up to €428 and for low incomes by €184;]] [[noting that the elderly discount is increased by up to €81;]] [[Whereas the standard practice has become to increase the employment discount much faster each year than the elderly discount;]] [[calls on the government to increase the employment rate and the elderly's discount to about the same extent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u174	Finally, I wish the Prime Minister and the Cabinet much wisdom and strength. I found it very special that we could also look at a press conference during this debate. I think it's quite extraordinary that you're doing all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u175	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I would like to give the floor to Mr Schalk of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Two preliminary remarks. I left my phone on my table this time. Second. I just saw the Prime Minister giving the press conference and I thought to myself: he had a wonderful day here, because he's standing there fresh as a hoop holding the press conference. We seem to have taken good care of the Prime Minister. Thank you for all the answers. By the way, some of those answers are hard to carry, I found, like those around life and death. That goes so deeply against my deepest intentions and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u177	The microphone's falling out, so I'm gonna suspend for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u178	The sound system's working again, so we're going to resume the sitting. I give the floor again to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u179	Mr. Chairman. Apparently, my lyrics were so loaded that the sound system gave out. I'll repeat my sentences again. Thank you for the Prime Minister's answers. Some answers are hard to carry, like those around life and death. That goes so deeply against my deepest intentions and beliefs that I can only say: choose life. It's in Deuteronomy 30. There is the call to love God, for "He is your life and the length of your days." That means God is the Source of life. The life span lies in His hands. In that light, I find the perspective on the future lean if we think that there is only perspective on the future if there is a vaccine. I'm sure the Prime Minister understands what I mean. Mr. Chairman. As far as the climate is concerned, I have one very short question. Quite frankly, does the Prime Minister really think that 49% CO reduction is feasible by 2030? And does he think it's 55%? As far as public debt is concerned, my party has always insisted that we should continue to manage public finances well. Let us continue to do so in the future. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said he could hold the Reform Day lecture on Saturday. He referred to Luther. He also took into account all kinds of things, such as finiteness. He always kept hope. A very familiar statement from him is: "If I knew that tomorrow the world would perish, I would plant an apple tree today." That speaks of hope right through everything. I wish that hope to our cabinet as well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u180	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I would like to give the floor to Mr Otten of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u181	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, we have presented a number of innovative, larger ideas for the necessary modernisation of the Netherlands. Meanwhile, we are in the middle of a violent second corona wave and of course we also pay attention to urgent practical problems that need to be resolved quickly. The impact of the corona crisis is excessive for SMEs and the 1 millionzzp'ers in the Netherlands. It is now of the utmost importance that these SMEs andzzp'ers should at least receive further tax deferrals as soon as possible, because they are currently earning almost nothing. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many SMEs andzzp'ers are now financially seriously affected by the second wave of the coronavirus;]] [[noting that the period of application for a more flexible deferred payment of tax expired on 1 October 2020;]] [[Whereas it is appropriate to also examine applications made after 1 October 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the relaxed policy until 1 January 2021, with the exception that a postponement of new emerging obligations is granted by 1 January 2021 at the latest, so that there is a one-end delay regime for all economic operators,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u182	A major practical problem is the transition fee, which creates an insoluble stalemate for many entrepreneurs. We also have a motion on this, which reads as follows. The President shall: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many SME entrepreneurs who are now hard hit by the corona crisis are structurally under-employed for their employees;]] [[whereas these entrepreneurs are also unable to reduce their workforce because they do not have sufficient reserves to pay transition fees;]] [[noting that this would lead to a catch 22 situation for these entrepreneurs, where they would no longer be able to pay these workers but would not be able to fire them, thereby endangering the viability of many companies;]] [[calls on the Government to find a short-term solution to this problem, whether temporary or not, so that there are no unnecessary bankruptcies of viable companies in themselves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u183	Finally, the concern. We have all talked extensively about the care in these harsh corona times. We have great appreciation for the people in care, who do not have it easy. In the debate we indicated that we see opportunities for making money available for this. That's what the next motion is about. The President shall: Mr Otten, Mr De Vries and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas health insurers have more than EUR 10 billion in cash;]] [[noting that the solvency ratio of health insurers is much higher than required and that there is at least EUR 3 billion more in cash for health insurers than required by the rules;]] [[noting that there is a huge amount of money on the shelves of health insurers that are not actually affected;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether this excess liquidity could be used by health insurers to improve remuneration and working conditions in the healthcare sector and reduce the own risk of health insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u184	Mr. Chairman. I wish the cabinet strength and success in fighting the corona epidemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u185	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Gerbrandy on behalf of the OSF Group during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u186	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and his cabinet, who, in these difficult times, have to run the country. I'm filing two motions. The first one is about the landlord's tax. The Prime Minister told us that something is being done about this: 30 million a year is being returned from the landlord's tax, but that is 15%. 2.2 million in rents of social housing goes to the state. The President shall: Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Vos, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Schalk, Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas a serious housing emergency has arisen in the Netherlands, partly because housing corporations and private landlords of social housing have been subject to a landlord's tax since 2013 and this landlord's tax of around 2 billion a year was imposed at the time to alleviate the deficit in the state budget;]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that there is an unacceptable shortage of housing;]] [[that housing corporations and private landlords of social housing can make a substantial contribution to building more good, sustainable and affordable housing for people with lower incomes in particular;]] [[that housing corporations and private landlords of social housing with these EUR 2 billion per year should be able to help resolve the government's housing shortage and climate objectives;]] [[Calls on the Government to reduce significantly the landlord levy by 2021 and to abolish it in the long term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u187	The Prime Minister said that he respects every Dutchman's right to exist, but we know that the surcharges, the exemptions, the discounts and the problems at the Tax Office are enormous. That is why I would ask you to look at another system and that is the following. The President shall: Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that prosperity is high in the Netherlands;]] [[the distribution of wealth is not proportionate;]] [[that there are many Dutch people living in poverty;]] [[that poverty is unworthy of a civilised country like the Netherlands;]] [[that every Dutch person must have security of existence;]] [[that the forest is well-intentioned, but has less and less effect, in terms of aid, such as increases, discounts, exemptions, etc.;]] [[that there are reasonable grounds for conducting a thorough investigation into another and perhaps better system;]] [[calls on the government to conduct a thorough investigation, for example an interdepartmental policy investigation, into all aspects of a basic income for all Dutch,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u188	One final point: the municipalities' finances and the Environment Act. That is a huge system change that will cost the municipalities a lot of effort and money. I asked a specific question: can the government guarantee that this will not be another financial debacle for the municipalities? I would like a brief and clear answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u189	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Will you be able to respond in ten minutes, Prime Minister? That's the case. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u190	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u191	Mr. Chairman. First I'll discuss a few more questions, then I'll do the motions and then I'll have a very brief final comment. I'll start with a few more questions. I promised Mr Rosenmöller that he would look into the position of young people. Let me say that, of course, I very much agree with him that young people are very affected. Everyone is affected by the crisis, but also certainly young people, and certainly socio-economically. With colleagues in the cabinet, we are looking at a number of perspectives on how to better involve young people's voices in policy. Examples are that from the social service time we have launched the project 'Jongen aan Zet', in which young people from smaller municipalities work for another through projects. The VWS Ministry is in talks with organisations working to reduce the loneliness among young people and to promote their mental resilience. With the event industry, we look at opportunities to organise events for young people, among others. Minister Ollongren is working with various youth organisations to realise new, sustainable forms of youth participation, so that we can continue to involve young people in policy-making, even after we have overcome the crisis. In the new covid campaign, which is now under way, much attention is also being paid to youth communication, for example by focusing on media dissemination with a wide range of young people and by choosing a positive approach, with a great deal of attention to personal stories and good examples of young people. However, I share Mr Rosenmöller's point that it is important not only to take individual measures in these difficult times but also to reflect on cohesion. I can't immediately reduce the impact on young people tonight. The cabinet is in good conversation with youth organisations, municipalities, security council and others, to explore together how we can offer young people a short-term perspective. For the longer term, the theme has also been addressed in the decision-making process for corona, which is organised by the Director-General for Society and COVID-19. I mentioned earlier that, at the request of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science, the Cooperation Organisation for Vocational Education has drawn up an action plan with actions to recruit internships and apprenticeships. Can I add that the SBB also makes acquisitions by calling companies, targeting campaigns and, together with schools, looking for regional solutions to shortages? I also mentioned the initiative in the Rotterdam-Rijnmond region as an example of a regional action plan where local authorities, schools and businesses, supported by the Vocational Education Cooperation Organisation, together put their shoulders on tackling the internship shortages. In the fourth service document, tools have been done by schools for creative solutions. I, together with the President of VNO-NCW and the Minister of OCW, at the opening of the MBO year called on the Dutch business community to keep internships available at this time as well. The MBO is an excellent continuation of the old guild system, in which the government takes care of the buildings and the teachers, and the companies and the public authorities provide places where young people can become students' companions and eventually masters. The government therefore also looks at its own role as an employer in offering internships. In this context, I would like to stress that what really helps is to ensure that we all get corona underneath. Young people also play a crucial role in this. I think it is a good example that student associations with municipalities have developed campaigns to increase support for the measures. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that this inventory, which I requested this afternoon, shows that a great deal is happening in a very wide area to involve young people in the policy. But the most important thing is to do everything possible to ensure that these internships in the MBO stay as well as possible and to find alternatives where that does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u192	For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask this question. As you said yourself, there is still a difference between all these individual measures and the need to ensure coherence and a perspective for those young people. The question is: when do we see the product?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u193	We are talking to youth organisations about how we can involve them in the design of the policy. It's not like that's gonna be done at some point. That's a process. Soon, or in the near future, I expect to sit down with young people's organisations again. I have had four discussions with youth organisations, from very young people, but also from students, about their involvement. I have spoken very specifically about housing, education, the environment and other matters and about their contribution in the context of corona that they must and also want to make. They are very motivated to do so. This also leads to an ink stain effect within the youth community. But there is no new policy paper in which all this comes together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u194	Nor am I concerned with a new policy paper. I am concerned that, among other things, those youth organisations themselves are satisfied with the perspective offered to them by the cabinet. That is, of course, only part of the answer, because the cabinet cannot do everything. If they are satisfied, you can let us know and that kind of questions will not come in the next few days and weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u195	I'm going one step further. I would like youth organisations to help us outline that perspective. The conversations are going on to get that done. Let's just agree that in the progress letter we send to the Chamber we regularly draw attention to that. I am very aware of this importance. A safe and prosperous Netherlands is only possible within a functioning multilateral system. The UN plays a key role in this. Dutch interests have been served by a well-functioning UN. To this end, the Netherlands will contribute more than €500 million from the budget for BuHa-OS in 2021 as a voluntary contribution to various UN organisations. Mr Knapen had a question about projects which emit only limited nitrogen during the construction phase. For this purpose, the Cabinet is working on an exemption from the licence requirement. It is true that this exemption relates only to the construction phase and not to the use phase. If there are emissions during the use phase, this obviously requires a permit. The cabinet is therefore working on a structural package to create this space. To this end, the Cabinet submitted the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement Act. It sets out a legal reduction target. This reduction allows for the restoration of nature and creates scope for new economic activities. Mr Knapen also had a question about Mr Noordanus. I have already reported that we are providing structural funds for a broad offensive against undermining crime. That Multidisciplinary Intervention Team is also being set up. In the coming years, the new Multidisciplinary Intervention Team will become a team of specialists to strengthen the approach. This is primarily intended for the longer term. I thought Noordanus was talking about a ten-year term. At least it's about cabinet periods. We're very committed to that. I have no doubt that formations go through without any doubt and without any difficulty. This can only be done if it is structuralally over the longer term. Then there was a question as to whether there are plans for alleviating the workload in care and for the deployment of medics who have just been scaled down to other places in care, for corona control. We are currently looking at the broad consultation with the NZa and the healthcare institutions and in relation to the care that is being scaled down how healthcare professionals can be used in broad, in line with Mrs Vos's remark. This is primarily coordinated at regional level, because of course supply and demand are best met there. The role of the mayors has been underlined once again in Mrs Bikker's speech of the Christian Union. We've already talked about that in the first period. The question was how we're gonna keep it up, how we're gonna go through with this. The mayor's group does indeed play an important role in this, but it also has to do with explaining what we are doing and why different measures are needed. We need to make it as easy as possible for people to follow up on the measures and work on enforcement if people do not comply with the measures. Those are the security regions, the mayors, the cabinet. In the end, everything that is decided nationally must also be implemented locally and regionally. Here we go with the Security Council, but also wide with the municipalities. Think also of the VNG, represented in different gremia. Of course, it's not a one-way street. The contact with local government, including the covid law adopted today, also provides for a two-way communication, because only together can we maintain this. It's about that longer-term perspective as long as there's no vaccine. This is in line with another point made by Mrs Bikker, on those long lines. Those long lines from the corona crisis countries in different places in decision-making. I have said something in the first term about how we have separated the short-term and medium-term and long-term policies and, of course, we have brought them together again. Indeed, the results of the various planning agency studies are input for the different election programmes, which should also include, for example, system changes. However, we must realise that this crisis is unprecedented and a completely new situation for everyone, and we must always respond to moving insights. So the long term will unfortunately be interrupted regularly by short-term actions. Yes, that 49% reduction target is strong, but in the Climate Agreement we agreed on a path that should lead to 49%. There is also a monitoring system, with the Climate Law and the Climate Plan, to periodically review and adapt that job, that great task that lies there, if necessary, to achieve the goals. This also applies in the case of an increase to 55%. We are very pleased that there is now a gradual consensus on this in Europe. This is something that the Netherlands has promoted with France and other countries. This level playing field is essential, and we believe that it is realistic and feasible. The new Environment Act needs to be implemented carefully. We do that in consultation with all the domes. Of course, all the financial aspects are also covered. We're following a careful process here. The absolute guarantee that nothing goes wrong, I can't give it. But the process is so organized, with all those involved, that we look together in all stages of the process that there is also that financial guarantee. Then I'll get to the motions. The first motion is by Mr Frentrop. Can I also say something about his term? Because in his second term he outlined some very definite contradictions. He says: Apparently migration policy is more important than housing shortage. Or: Brussels is ultimately more important than putting its own finances in order. Or: global warming is more important than solving the corona crisis. I don't think those contradictions are so black and white. In a lot of cases, it's en-and. We must also ensure that illegal migration, i.e. economic migration, is prevented as much as possible, and that the number of migrants coming here can count on our reception in numbers so that our society can cope with it. This must be done in addition to addressing the housing emergency problem. We in Brussels need to ensure that we look as closely as possible at how we can help countries with harsh conditions that are really in trouble, also in our interests. But at the same time, we also need to put our own finances in order. And the climate issue and the energy transition are also extremely important for our future. There are a lot of jobs in the future, also due to the energy transition and tackling the climate problems. But that doesn't change the fact that we have to solve the corona crisis at the same time. I have had the impression from the interruptions that Mr Frentrop received from others that he is putting those contradictions firmly in place. That helps in the debate; thank you for that. That clearly puts where we're all standing. At the same time, I have concluded that he understands that compromises should eventually be made on these points, but that he clearly highlights his party's points in this debate. I can only appreciate that. Then, of course, his first motion is in line with this. I would like to say on that motion that I must dissuade her on balance, because appointment is here for our appointment. And there are important elements in that package, including the budget itself for the next seven years, including the reductions, reforms and the rule of law, which we all consider important. So on balance, considering everything, I have to dissuade the motion with letter D. But may I thank him for the pleasant debate and the sharpness? I look forward to continuing these discussions. The motion with letter E of GroenLinks does not require an opinion from the cabinet, because it is an appeal to the Chamber. But I hope, of course, that it will continue. The motion with letter F on the deletion of the voluntary contribution to the UN I do not recommend, for the reason I have just mentioned. We have an interest in a highly functioning multilateral system. Only in this way can we maintain the interests of our beautiful country as well as possible. We're too small to do that in isolation. We need the UN, NATO and the European Union to do this. Then I would like to ask about the motion with letter G of the SP on the health bonus. On the first point, to pay it out this year, we're going to do everything we can. On the second point, a structural improvement in the financial appreciation of caregivers, I would like to say the following. We are in the process of working out the cabinet plans in terms of workload and working pleasure. This, of course, also affects the income of people in care, and how, for example, you deal with scales, walk-in scales and all those kinds of issues. Ultimately, 130 million is structurally available for this. My request to Mr Kox would therefore be to hold the motion with letter G and give us the opportunity to come up with the plan for the 130 million. So the request is to hold that motion. The motion with letter H concerns an independent investigation into the exclusion of certain public functions of the WNT. I should like to advise against this motion with a reference to the debate. The motion with letter I of 50PLUS concerns the pension discounts. We have, of course, discussed this at length in the first term of the Chamber and the Government. In that debate, I said that I cannot exclude discounts and that there are no guarantees, but that we want to prevent them, of course. With reference to that part of the debate, I must advise against the motion with letter I of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u196	Since the Prime Minister is busy with the execution in the House of Representatives, I would like to continue my motion until that work is completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u197	For completeness and for the Acts, is that motion 35570 with letter H?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u198	I think so, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u199	At the request of Mr Koffeman, I propose that his motion be retained (35570, letter H). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u200	What I said just now in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen on the pension reductions applies to the motion with letter J on indexation. I also have to dissuade them on balance. Then the purchasing power of the elderly, as it says here. The aim of the old people's discount and the reduction in working hours is really different. The reduction in working hours is also an incentive for participation. Moreover, it is a question of purchasing power for workers, who are very uncertain as a result of the corona crisis. Purchasing power plates now say very little about the actual situation. After a long period of hesitation, I also have to dissuade the motion with letter K of 50PLUS. Then I come to Mr Otten. He has tabled an interesting motion with letter L, on the relaxation of the policy regarding the tax postponement request until 1 January 2021, and thus to extend it. I think there is something to be said for, in the light of the additional measures and the additional support announced today, to give companies more breathing space in this area too. I would therefore like to say that the House's opinion on Mr Otten's motion is letter L. If the motion is adopted, it will of course lead to a letter from the two State Secretarys, or from one of the State Secretaryes, to the Chamber. Then the motion with letter M. About the temporary solution for the transition fee, I promised a letter. If you force me, I must discourage the motion, but my request to Mr Otten would be to hold the motion until that letter arrives. I can see him nodding "yes" loudly. The observation is, I think, that the motion has been held by letter M.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u201	If you'd like to confirm that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u202	It is good to hear that a commitment is being made to send a letter. I hope that this can also be included in the commitment register. Then I'll hold the motion with letter M.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u203	At the request of Mr Otten, I propose that his motion be retained (35570, letter M). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u204	Then the motion with letter N. That motion by Mr Otten is something I must advise against. It's about the health insurance companies. The healthcare salaries are market-based for 2021. For this purpose, additional remuneration is also provided in 2021, through the so-called covenant that vibrates for this purpose. That's the Oval Covenant. I don't think this motion can be done, so I have to discourage the motion with letter N. Then I come to the OSF motion, which deals with the landlord's tax as of 2021. As far as we are concerned, there are already sufficient instruments to stimulate housing by corporations. I'd like to discourage the motion with letter O. The motion with letter P calls for a little more dialogue between me and Mr Gerbrandy, because I would like to ask him if he means the IBO allowances that are being worked on, as well as the contour note. If I may read the motion in this way, I'd like to give the motion a Chamber of Judgement. If he asks for another whole new investigation, then we get a little Thomas Manns Buddenbrooks from 1848: "We want a republic." "You already have one." "Then we want another one." So it's gonna be a little double-up. If I may explain it that way, I think the motion with letter P may be Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u205	I agree with that. I await the opinion of the senators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u206	Thank you. That concerns the motion with the letter P of Pieter. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u207	The Prime Minister proposed to hold the motion on a structurally better financial appreciation for care workers. I think that's a good try, but of course I'm not gonna do that. It is no better than what can happen today, namely that a motion of the same nature is adopted in both Chambers. The motion is therefore not being held, but must be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u208	Then I'm gonna have to dissuade it. Mr President, if I may, I would like to make a few final comments. I'm talking from my and also from Hoekstra's sense of today. These General Political Reviews were special in many respects. The coronavirus has already led to a peculiar positioning of the Chamber, certainly of this Chamber, also towards the Cabinet and also in this beautiful place. The fight against the virus was an important theme. This was reflected in the contributions of many speakers. Mrs Bredenoord devoted almost her entire contribution to this. But in many contributions, the fight against the virus was prominently addressed. Also between the companies of these General Reviews this was a theme that occupied the Chamber. The First Chamber voted today on the Temporary Law measures covid-19 and adopted this bill. This has provided a good parliamentary basis for the measures needed to combat the virus. The First Chamber made its own contribution yesterday, and to a certain extent today, through a thorough contribution. As far as I am concerned, this shows the role played by the First Chamber 75 years after liberation in our constitutional system. This also shows the revival of this Chamber. Your Chamber recently adopted a constitutional proposal on the extension of the right to vote of Dutch citizens abroad. This is important for the composition of the First Chamber. It is expected that in the foreseeable future this Chamber will also be able to examine constitutional proposals relating to other parts of the Upper House's position in the state system. How much the First Chamber can take into account the social implementation and functioning of legislation in its traditional legislative task, I believe today also spoke out of the Members' proposal to make the issue of discrimination, in the broadest sense, the subject of the agenda. That is a proposal that originally came from the corner of GroenLinks and VVD, but that, I understood, can account for wider consent in the Upper Chamber. It seems to me, as I say here as an observer, an initiative that fits with the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, but that also fits with what the Netherlands is and must remain: a country in which people are not judged on their origin but on their future, not on their faith but on their behaviour and not on their past but on their future. In this respect, I wish the Chamber on behalf of the Cabinet very much success in drafting that proposal. We'll be happy to be of service if we can help. Finally, I would like to thank you very much, Mr President, and all the members of the Chamber for a very pleasant stay here. I'm richly foraged with cookies and coffee. Thank you also on behalf of Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u209	Thank you, Prime Minister. I also thank the entire cabinet, of course, through you. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-13.u210	In accordance with the agreement with the group chairmen, we shall vote next week on the motions tabled. I wish you all well at home and I will close the meeting.
