ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u1	The next item is the debate on the extraordinary European summit on 20 February 2020. I would like to welcome Members of Parliament, as well as the people in the public gallery and the Prime Minister. Mr Tony van Dijck is excited, because he is already ready. On behalf of the PVV, Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with the good news today. Today we received a letter from Mr Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, that we will get 17 million back from the European Union. That's not common; 17 million. We had to pay 50,000 million first, but at least we get 17 million back. That's good news, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today how much the EU can spend over the next seven years. So how much do we have to pay to Brussels? This Prime Minister's going in hard. Not a penny extra to Brussels, he calls. But where have we heard that before? When he yelled, "Not a penny to Greece." He then transferred 10 billion to Athens. Anyway, he's doing it again: not a penny extra to Brussels. Hope brings life. The question before us today is what the Prime Minister will do if the Netherlands eventually pays more to Brussels. Is he gonna veto it or is he gonna sign it again at the cross? We are paying more than 8 billion to Brussels this year. Just for the imagery: that's more than what we lost to the police in the Netherlands or about what we lost to secondary education. 8 billion euros! If we do nothing, this contribution will automatically rise above EUR 10 billion. Tell him an entire defense budget disappears to Brussels. Footie! Do something nice with it. But of course this is not enough for the Commission. He wants more. They want EUR 2 to 3 billion more, say 13 billion per year from the Netherlands. And they want their own resources. What do these new own resources mean for the contribution of the Netherlands? What does that plastic tax mean? How is it levied? Some of the allowances are being skimmed from the ETS, if I have to believe the letter. What's that look like? Instead of our Prime Minister traveling to Brussels to pay substantially less, he is fine with it. His bet is to stop paying. So we'll just be the biggest net contributor to Europe over the next seven years, and he'll accept that. The PVV wants to pay less and preferably nothing at all. The PVV wants out. Away from the EU that is trying to take over our country. Away from that transfer union where our tax dollars flow to the Eastern bloc and to Club Med. That's why we've been pleading for a nexit for years, to be free and sovereign again and again boss over our own country, our own money and our own borders. There are still two pressing questions, however, about European taxation and our right of veto. In the past, two motions from the PVV have been adopted calling on the government never to agree to European taxes and not to give up our right of veto in any area. These motions were adopted by a large majority. Each time it comes back that the Commission is trying to undermine these cases. It talks about the introduction of European taxes, a plastic tax, a CO border tax, a flight tax, a Googletaks, a financial transaction tax and a European corporate tax. If we give in to that, it's waiting for the moment we get a blue envelope with stars on the doormat. What's the Prime Minister's status on this? Is he indeed going to block any form of European taxation? The same applies to our right of veto. We just had another VAO with Secretary of State File Letter. He hasn't quite understood it yet. He does not understand that there is a motion from the House of Representatives that says that our right of veto is not affected. He's gonna look into the next Energy Directive to see if he's gonna implement this motion. Of course, that's not how we got married. I would like to hear from this Prime Minister that for a moment he is going to give Mr Filipino an emergency course in parliamentary membership and work, because of course it is not meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u3	You were done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u5	I have a question for Mr Van Dijck. He talks about European taxes. In my opinion, hardly anyone wants that in this Chamber, but my question to him is: is it now also in Mr Charles Michel's proposal to introduce European taxes? That is, a blue envelope from Brussels with twelve gold stars on it. Is that up or down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u6	In the document that we have been sent confidentially, but I believe that it has also been published in public sources, it is clear that a plastic tax is being introduced. It also clearly states that they want to take a grip on the ETS emission allowances. These are not directly blue envelopes that fall on the doormat of the citizens, but it is a form of taxation. Because if you say "give me some of the ETS allowances that still belong to the Member States" and you need money, then it is of course easy to turn the button and ask for a larger part. Now it says you have to pay over 50% of the average or something. Of course, it is likely that it will be above 10% or above 5%. An ever-increasing proportion of the population will then be displaced towards Brussels, which is now the responsibility of the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u7	This is listening closely, because Mr Van Dijck has a hand in creating fog to do this kind of thing. He acts like taxes are coming or like they're almost coming when it goes on like this. But what is before us here is not even a plastic base, my group is not even enthusiastic about it. That is to say, what a country has unrecycled plastic, you use as a basis to pay to the European Union, just as you do now with gross national income. That sounds a bit technical, but it is not a European tax. It would be good if Mr Van Dijck made it clear that that is not a blue envelope from Brussels with twelve golden stars, rather than creating some fog and making suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u8	That's a semantic discussion. If the European Union removes the plastic tax or allowances from the Member States, it will ultimately be left to the consumer. That means more payments. That means more taxpayers' money to Brussels, no matter how you turn it or turn it around. Mr Mulder also knows the ideas about a flight tax, a CO border tax, a Googletaks, a...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u9	That's all you've listed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u10	... financial transaction tax and the CCCTB. Those are all taxes and they try to get a grip on the left or right every time. Those own resources are sacred, because they want to get rid of that lump sum. They want their own resources, their own revenues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u11	Conclusion: there is currently no proposal in circulation for a blue envelope from Brussels. Let us also make that clear in this debate and not pretend that it is there or that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u12	Brussels sends Mark Rutte a blue envelope and he sends it to the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u13	Thank you, Mr. Tony van Dijck. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u14	Mr. Chairman. Europe faces major challenges. The budget under negotiation must answer today's and tomorrow's questions. Do we know how to shape the climate and energy transition in time or do we pass the problems on to our children? Are we investing enough in knowledge and innovation to compete with the US and China or are we continuing to spend 70% of our money on old-fashioned agricultural and cohesion funds? Let us see that we have the political courage to get stronger together or let us break up by internal division? Mr. Chairman. As far as D66 is concerned, the answer to these questions is clear: we can only meet the major challenges if we tackle them together as the EU. To do that, we need an ambitious and reformed budget. From cows to knowledge, from chickens to climate. The EU must have the means to manage migration, to make geopolitics a fist and to ensure our security. Mr. Chairman. It is precisely on these points that I am concerned about the negotiations. Charles Michel's new proposal is again cutting back on knowledge, innovation, migration and security, as well as weakening the link with the rule of law. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this proposal removes the money from the main priorities for the Netherlands and that it seems to be moving in the wrong direction as regards the rule of law? If he has to answer these questions yes, I would ask the Prime Minister: will you be as committed to reform and modernisation next Thursday as you are now committed to the level of the payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u15	From cows to knowledge. That sounds good, of course. D66 is more in favour of changing subsidies towards agriculture, but does Mr Jetten realize that he is in favour of more expensive consumer goods, more expensive food for consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u16	Not necessarily. We must use our agricultural funds in the coming years to help the agricultural sector in the Netherlands, but also in other European countries, to participate in the changes in that climate transition. The Farm to Fork Initiative of Commissioner Timmermans will be really focused on getting agriculture to contribute to the Green Deal. Then we must get rid of the old-fashioned support for farmers in Europe. We must, in particular, support farmers who want to go ahead and make the impact of sustainability targeted in the conversion of their farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u17	Perhaps it would be a good idea for D66 to ask why agricultural subsidies were ever chosen. That was to raise production and keep costs low. If money now flows towards climate, from the Green Deal, then that means by definition that the prices of agricultural products are rising. I therefore believe that D66 should have the courage to tell the honest story and say: people, dear consumers, we want to reform agriculture, and that means that you as consumers will pay for it. Is D66 willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u18	In my opinion, I am always very clear about the fact that I think that the consumer pays a relatively low price for food, especially in the Netherlands. Farmers are also right to complain that they do not get a fair price for the products they supply to wholesalers and supermarkets. That's a very separate discussion. The question is: do we as consumers pay a fair price for our food? And yes, Mr Bishop is right to say that we once set up the agricultural funds because we wanted to be self-sufficient as a continent, to increase production and to ensure that everyone on this continent can be fed. But I also want us to be able to do that in 10 years and in 20 years. This means, therefore, that we need to move towards more nature-inclusive agriculture, that we need to pay more attention to biodiversity, that we need to make fewer animal products and that we need to feed our mouths in a different way. We also have to help farmers with that change. This means spending less money on income support and more money on farm conversion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u19	Your third question, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u20	Certainly, because this is a very important point, Mr President. Mr Jetten says that less money should be spent on income support, but that income support was once set up to reduce costs. Will Mr Jetten indicate what level food prices are allowed to rise to? That retail story is completely unrelated for a while, because that stays. You can do something about that, but this is about the primary production costs on the farm. How far can they increase if subsidies are cut off or cost-enhancing measures are needed in the context of climate change? D66 needs to clarify this rather than cloak itself in a cloud of uncertainty as if it could all be budget neutral. You can't do that. How high?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u21	I do not agree with the conclusion that a shift in agricultural expenditure by definition leads to a higher price. Over the last few months, I have been working at many farms in the Netherlands as a result of the debate on recycled agriculture and nitrogen. People at these family farms then told me: "I also see that the current system is stalled and that I cannot produce food in this way for another ten or twenty years. I would like to make the switch to a more sustainable stable or to a different way of business, but I just can't figure it out because I can't make that investment." Let us then ensure that we use the agricultural funds in such a way that we also financially support farmers who want to make this change. In addition, I strongly believe that the European Commission's priority should be much more focused on knowledge development, digitalisation and other sectors of the economy than just agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u22	Mr Jetten, on behalf of D66, expressed his view that Europe should all do for the climate and for agriculture. However, I believe that Europe should also refrain from protecting European agriculture from unfair competition from outside. Does Mr Jetten have any ideas about this in the light of the free trade deals that the same European Commission continues to close?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u23	I am proud that today, in this House of Representatives, we have approved the Free Trade Agreement with Canada. Last week we debated it for about 16 and a half hours. One of the main reasons why prosperity on this continent has increased so enormously over the last few decades is the free trade we have. As the Netherlands, we can benefit from this with our open economy. Last week, we discussed in detail how we are going to ensure that free trade takes place under fair rules in this century, with greater respect for human rights, workers' rights and certainly also for climate, nature and animal welfare. Mrs Ouwehand and I agree that this should be better secured in trade agreements. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet in Brussels also ensures that the European Commission's top priorities in all the treaties that we are going to negotiate over the coming years are climate, nature and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u24	But that is, of course, naive if the European Commission has already signed a deal with Brazil and its counterparts, the Mercosur deal. It consists largely of allowing Europe to send German cars to that continent. In return, European agriculture, which Mr Jetten is now so committed to and which he believes should be more nature-friendly and climate-friendly, must accept that puffs of chicken, soya and beef from Brazil are well below European standards in our market. When is D66 gonna say you can't accept a deal like that anymore if you want to switch to agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u25	Last week the CETA debate gave the impression that free trade agreements are by definition a threat to Dutch farmers. It just isn't. We can see that the majority of the free trade agreement with Canada is already in force, and Dutch farmers benefit from it. We're just making really good stuff here. Especially when we make that switch to circular agriculture, I think you will see worldwide that the appreciation for Dutch food is only increasing. It can also strengthen our competitiveness if we dare to take the lead in this shift towards sustainable agriculture. Mrs Ouwehand asks how we can prevent a lot of crap from being dumped on the European market. We see that we have made good agreements with Canada. Only certified companies can export beef to the European market. I think we should also make such agreements in other trade agreements. A lot of parties in this Chamber already have an opinion on Mercosur, but I cannot yet make that assessment. I will not do that until the cabinet sends that trade treaty to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u26	One last question about that, because I am concerned about that. At CETA we saw that it was signed years ago and that it was then a matter of stalling. Then eventually it comes to the Chamber and then the line of defence is that we can't say no anymore because then we'll be a muddy figure. The same is likely to happen to Mercosur. The same is likely to happen with a trade agreement with Thailand. I don't think we should want that. D66 must therefore link its promises and ambitions for Dutch agriculture to opposition to these kinds of trade deals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u27	I assume that the cabinet listened very carefully to the debate that we had here for many hours last week and that the cabinet knows where the priorities of a large part of this Chamber lie in the assessment of the Mercosur Treaty, and that this also does something about the commitment in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u28	Proceed, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u29	Mr. Chairman. The Brexit has not made the negotiations for this budget easier. The EU needs to do more, while less money comes in. We have to deal with this together with all the Member States. Anyone who constantly dismisses the payment as costs misses the fact that the Netherlands is becoming rich by the EU. The money we put into the EU budget is an investment. For every euro that the Netherlands invests in the European budget, we get €12 back from our earnings from the internal market. For every euro that the Netherlands invests in knowledge in the EU through Horizon, we get directly €1.60 back to direct investment in our knowledge-based economy. Mr. Chairman. While we as a Union face bigger challenges than ever before, the dreary four are as blind as this Chamber. 1% and no more! Not a penny more to Brussels! That's a short-sighted grocery mentality. Here, too, there is a high risk of low-cost buy-back. That is why I call on the Prime Minister: do not stare blindly at that one percent, but focus on a modern budget, on lower expenditure on agriculture and cohesion, and on more investment in knowledge, climate and security. Bet on a Europe that is ready for the future. Fight as hard for the right rules as you are now fighting for the euros. Bet on a fair sharing of the burden by allowing for direct financing, for example through European charges on plastic, a flight tax, a carbon border tax or a digitaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u30	We've actually been hearing from D66 for a while that we shouldn't talk about the amount of the payment. It's just supposed to be about ambitions. D66 is therefore increasingly moving away from what people want, because only one in four people wants more money to Brussels. Two-thirds of people say they want less money to go. This is evident from recent research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. I am surprised at the attitude towards the dreary four or five. For you yourself voted in favour of the motion of the SGP and the SP two years ago, which said that the government must work to ensure that the budget is preferably reduced, but at least remains the same. Then how do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u31	Let me see what Europe stands for now. That's what you see in the SCP reports. The Dutch people also want Europe to ensure security, manage migration, invest more in knowledge and complete the climate transition in a fair and social way. This calls for a European budget with enough money, which has been modernised and which focuses on those priorities. A modern budget dedicated to the priorities of the European Union should be the main focus of the Dutch cabinet. We've seen what happens in the last few weeks, if we're blind-eyed at that 1%. It started with a relatively good proposal from the European Commission. Then there was a proposal from the Finnish Presidency. Now there's Charles Michel's proposal. Because a number of countries are completely blind staring at that 1%, everyone starts turning buttons. The result is that the money for agriculture and cohesion remains intact and that we are cutting back on climate and knowledge, the main goals. The Dutch cabinet and, in my view, the entire Dutch parliament want the European Commission to focus on the issues and challenges of today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u32	D66 says: put yourself down, then go as a net contributor pulling the pouch and don't stare blindly at that 1%. When others make demands, we make demands. D66 supported those demands two years ago. I think it is quite something to pretend here that we are only staring blindly at that 1%. I'll also mention a few examples of where you can get money, but if it's closed somewhere else and you're attracted to being framed as economical or sparing... I think that's kind of cowardly politics. Two years ago, you thought otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u33	It is, of course, beginning with the way in which we have the debate here. If we keep calling out that we're net contributors, then I understand that people at home are thinking, "God, what's a lot of money going to Europe, can it all go down a notch?" We could also tell each other the fair story here, namely that we are net profiteers. Every euro we invest in Europe comes back 12 times thanks to the single market. Of every euro in knowledge and innovation in Europe, €1,60 comes back to investments in the Netherlands. Then you have another conversation with each other about what Europe is achieving. Then there are the size of the budget, because there are a few things that are mixed up: the size of the budget, the 1% and the Dutch contribution. In Brussels, of course, you can come to the conclusion that the budget needs to increase, given the major challenges. We can deal with this in a very good way, including direct funding, which I have just advocated. Then we do not have to have a terrible discussion about national payments with all the Member States every so many years. No, then we will ensure that Europe gets its own direct funding for a number of themes that are very important, so that we do not get stuck in the discussion about national contributions every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u34	I think very differently about the round pumping machine in Brussels. First we have to transfer money to it and then we have to beg if we can get it back. And yes, we're the biggest net contributor. Because you're just counting on what you're paying off, including direct resources, because they're long gone, and that's where you'll be pulling back from what we're able to get back to our universities, farmers, provinces and other governments, and then you'll have your net or gross position. It is not for nothing that the net receivers also keep their feet stiff and say: we can't get rid of them. I find it so unwise that you speak to the people about the one in twelve. I'm sorry, but they don't notice that in class. And I'm sorry, but they don't notice any of that here in day care. Those twelve, they don't end up with ordinary people. And people know that damn well. And if more money is needed, they will be asked. You realized that two years ago: it has to be a lower budget or at least the same. Now you're saying that people who argue for that are blind staring. You've made the turn, and that's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u35	Mr. Chairman. Of course, people don't see on their pay slip which part of that €12 we get back for every euro we invest. But that means about €2,000 per Dutchman who we earn from the European internal market. That is a month's salary for many people, which we earn in the Netherlands thanks to our participation in that European internal market. Mrs Leijten said something very interesting: the net recipients also keep their feet stiff. That is right, and that is precisely the toxic dynamic that we are now in in these negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union. Both sides keep the foot rigid, the net recipients and the net contributors, and the result is that the Commission and the President start looking for compromises. And these compromises are as follows: we leave agriculture and cohesion alone, and we cut back on knowledge, climate, security and immigration; the top priorities for the Netherlands for this European Commission. So it is also a clumsy negotiating strategy that we are pursuing with each other. We need to focus on modernising that budget, on tight rules of the game, so that countries that break European rules are dealt with and cut back on the benefits they get from Europe. And my aim is not to increase that budget indefinitely. My goal is that we have a modern budget, which responds to the challenges of our time, including the challenges we are concerned about in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u36	Your fourth question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u37	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to respond to the fact that it's a silly negotiating strategy. No, it's not. If you keep your foot down, you'll get what you want in the end. That is what the net recipients know, and so must the net contributors, as we do. And not with the frame that the European Commission and the European Parliament are laying on us, as if we were dirty. As a Dutch population, we pay the most to the European Union net. You can be proud of that. It could be different. And then say you're filthy, that's a poisonous discussion!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u38	Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully. I actually heard Mr Jetten say quite clearly that the strategy that is now being pursued does not deliver what is needed for the next seven years in Europe. He talked about a stubborn strategy, an unwise strategy and a grocery mentality. Earlier, D66 mentioned the strategy that this Prime Minister is pursuing on this point as insufficient. My question is: if it is not enough, what else should it be, and what should change in that strategy today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u39	So those were exactly my questions to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister prepared to argue in favour of this direct funding, so that you can create room for the European budget? Will the Prime Minister, just as he is committed to the net zero of the Netherlands, be committed to the modernisation of the European budget, because I know that the Prime Minister's commitment is the same with the same passion, so that we actually spend the money on the issues that matter? If the Prime Minister can respond positively in a moment, I have a little more confidence in the commitment at the forthcoming European summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u40	That is a bit easy, because two months ago an insufficient one was already handed out, and the strategy has not changed since then. In fact, Mr Jetten uses the same words: grocery mentality, unwise, is not going to work. My question is: if Mr Jetten gives an incompetence for this, and he does, he repeats it now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u41	Well, I didn't say that. That was my colleague in the previous debate. I do not think that is a very relevant discussion. What matters to me is that the Prime Minister, along with other countries, such as Denmark or Sweden...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u42	I was just asking my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u43	Yeah, okay, but you're sticking to me that I just repeated the word "insufficient," but I didn't do that in this debate. That was Kees Verhoeven in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u44	Okay, continue. Or Mr Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u45	Will you take that back? I'm just confused about this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u46	No, it's not relevant to my input right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u47	Well, for most of the people here in this house, it's relevant if the Prime Minister gets an incompetence on the strategy he's pursuing. Since you used the same words as Mr Verhoeven, I thought you were making the same judgment. I would like to know: is it an inadequate or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u48	I suggest that we give that figure at the moment when the outcome of the negotiations is there. In this debate, I make a number of suggestions to the Prime Minister on how, in my view, he can achieve more on the priorities of the Netherlands than when he is only blind-minded at 1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u49	Mr Verhoeven and I did not ask for a figure for the outcome of the negotiations, none of us know that yet. That can be great; let's hope so. It could be disappointing, too. No, Mr Verhoeven, and I think you too, just gave a qualification of the Prime Minister's strategy. It is a grocery mentality, it is obstinate, it is unwise, and it is precisely, thank you, Mrs Leijten, counterproductive. You repeated those words. So it wasn't about the end result, because we're going to look at it together, but about the strategy. So either you think that strategy is inadequate and then it should change, whatever your plea seemed to extend. You either take back what D66 said about it, but that is also relevant. You cannot consider that relevant, but I do think that is relevant: a coalition party with the opinion of the Prime Minister that it is insufficient. It's been said here. Not once, but three times. So do you take that back or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u50	I have just noted in my own contribution that a number of European Member States, including the Netherlands, are committed to 1%. This seems to be the main objective of the European Union's multiannual budget. I note that this has led in recent weeks to the fact that the parties making compromise proposals are cutting back on priorities such as knowledge, security and migration. That is why I am warning you that we should not just be staring blindly at the size of the budget. Then perhaps we can come back with an end result which we say 'Look, boys, we did it, we did it, we did it 1%', but if we then had to turn in all the substantive priorities, I would think that would be a bad end result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u51	The question wasn't a trick question to complicate it. I actually wanted to ask another question because you simply repeated Mr Verhoeven's words here. The Prime Minister was told last time that D66 is failing the strategy he is pursuing. I understood that, it was also argued, because it would not produce any results. You repeat those points. My question is very simple: does that mean that you are giving an insufficient amount to this Prime Minister for the strategy pursued? If that is not the case, then it is useful that you explicitly take it back and then we can tell Kees Verhoeven. But it can't stay so halfway around. You have your own prime minister dangling here for two months. He does not seem to be burdened with it, but D66 gives out an incompetence in the plenary, not once but three times. Is that what you're saying or are you barking at the wind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u52	I understand that Mr Asscher now likes this game. We are now debating with each other the commitment to the forthcoming European summit. I have made a number of suggestions, given the developments of the last week concerning the proposals made by Charles Michel and the Finnish Presidency. So my question to the Prime Minister is also: are you going to work as hard in the coming days for modernisation and direct funding as you are committed to the net contribution of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u53	Then I'm going to see Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u54	What is striking is that Mr Jetten's appeal is almost exactly the same as the one made by D66 two months ago, on 10 December. Then the Prime Minister's answer was interesting. He said: I am not going to do that, and I await what the group chairmen are going to propose in their consultations to amend the coalition agreement. That was the Prime Minister's response to the insufficient D66 distribution. My question to Mr Jetten is what happened between 10 December and now on this point. What did D66 do to strengthen the words of then and today's words?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u55	When it comes to the MFF, Europe's multiannual budget, there are two relevant points in the coalition agreement. One is that the net contribution of the Netherlands should not be raised, and two is that we should focus on a modern budget that also looks at knowledge and innovation. I note that in recent months the Netherlands' commitment seemed very focused on the first point and not enough on the second point. That is the warning I am issuing again. It is also no surprise to Mr Van Ojik if I tell him that in this coalition we think very differently about the space that the European Commission should be given to meet these great challenges. As D66 I would like to go further in this than we agreed in the coalition agreement with the four parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u56	I do know that, but that wasn't my question either. My question was about this. The Prime Minister said exactly two months ago: if D66 wants this and wants to say goodbye to the stubborn, short-sighted course of action, aimed only at the payment, then I expect a proposal from D66 in consultation with the four group chairmen. That is why it is unfortunate that Mr Jetten is now standing here. My question is very simple. We've been two months. What did D66, what did Mr. Jetten, through you, Mr. Chairman, do in those two months to actually do what the Prime Minister invited him to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u57	These are the same proposals that I have just explained in my speaking time. Make sure you modernise in that budget so that you can use money that is still going to agriculture and cohesion for our priorities: knowledge, security, migration and climate. Be prepared to think about more direct funding for Europe, so that that budget gets more air. We are also here in this debate. It will be clear to you: these four coalition parties too do not agree with each other on this. But that is why I am here in this debate: to convey that story in the hope that I can convince many of you of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u58	And it would be fantastic if the Prime Minister now gave Mr Jetten a completely different answer than he gave to the D66 Group two months ago, to Mr Verhoeven, but I do not expect that. So the question is again as follows. The course of the cabinet is obstinate and short-sighted. We have heard all kinds of qualifications. The Prime Minister said: I will wait and see what D66 comes up with in the group chairmen' discussions. My question is, what did D66 come up with? Suppose D66 came up with something and the other parties said: fine, guys, but we're just gonna carry on with that stubborn and short-sighted course. The question then is, of course, what does Mr Jetten intend to achieve today, because then I would say that you must accept this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u59	Surely it would be very bad if someone from GroenLinks were to tell me that I could do better in backrooms than in a plenary debate that my party stands for when it comes to Europe's multiannual budget. Maybe a few more additions or nuances. As far as I am concerned, this grocery mentality applies not only to the Netherlands. This also applies to the other countries which are so opposed to a small increase in the European budget, because the negotiations and the search for compromises will affect those countries precisely in their priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u60	Then, I fear, is the conclusion that D66 keeps a story here every two months about the obstinate and short-sighted.what is it all? The direction of the cabinet, but that in the end nothing changes in the cabinet, to which this group chairman and this party belong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u61	I think that's wonderful dualism. I am glad for a long time that I have heard a more pro-European course this evening than in last week's free trade debate, because the reality is, of course, that in this Chamber there is also a very large majority in favour of the Prime Minister's line. That is what I am fighting, because I believe that a large part of the solution to the major challenges in Europe is not at national level. I have not yet mentioned short-sightedness in my own speech, but I also warn against the fact that if we remain stubborn in the debate on the European budget for too long, we will have to deal with it in other cases. That is what I mean by the word'short-sightedness'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u62	The debate we are having on D66's attitude is very relevant. Several D66 speakers have said something recently about the budget. The previous spokesperson wanted to increase the budget. At that time, I said that there were three ways of doing that. First of all, this runs out of support for the European Union and for the budget. Why? As Mrs Leijten said, most people do not want to pay any more. It also undermines the cabinet's position. The Prime Minister must negotiate on behalf of the Netherlands, and one of the coalition parties says: I do not like that strategy. And it runs out of financial discipline, because if you say it can cost more, then you have to tell us where it has to come from. In this respect, Mr Jetten has undermined everything today, again, but still has not delivered butter to the fish. Because if this proposal costs 2 billion now, structuralally, so year by year, then tell us where it has to come from. Then what do you want to cut back on? And if you cannot state that, you have undermined the position of the Netherlands, undermined the support base under the European Union and undermined financial discipline. Then we have nothing of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u63	The support of the European Union is that people want to know what Europe is delivering. Then we must also dare to tell that story with each other. Then we must also ensure that Europe focuses on the concerns that people now have. They are in the areas of climate, security and migration. I fully agree with Mr Mulder that financial discipline must also be in order in other European Member States. Hence my questions to the Prime Minister. My view is that Michel's proposal is actually a weakening of the stick we wanted to give the European Commission to hit Member States if they do not comply with the agreements we make with each other in Europe. Finally, Mr President. If the European budget increases by 0.01%, this is a contribution by the Netherlands of 70 million. That is something that can really be seen in our budget. That's where we're gonna get to know each other. Once again, I am not concerned with the total amount of that budget, but I am concerned with the fact that it is being spent on the right things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u64	This is your fifth question, Mr. Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u65	I have already said that Mr Jetten is running out of people's support for the European Union, because the people no longer want to pay, he is running out of the government's strategy, because other countries are watching what is happening here, and he is running out of financial discipline. And what's left? "I don't come up with cover for the $2 billion." Isn't that a contribution that nobody can help?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u66	Go to Brussels for half a day, talk to a few people, and you'll immediately find out how the negotiating strategy of all countries is being looked at. I do not believe that what we are exchanging here in this debate is now making everyone very much aware of it. Again, if you ask the Dutch citizen if he wants to pay more taxes, he says no. So when you put the question "you want to pay more to Europe," everyone says no. Those are perfectly logical answers. The story we need to tell each other is this. What is Europe currently the solution for? What problems can we not deal with nationally? What should you do at European level? And what modern budget does that include? I would like to conclude by appealing to the Prime Minister not only to be aware of the Dutch contribution to the multiannual budget, but also to fight for the modernisation of that budget in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u67	Mr Jetten talks about the "fair story." There is now a proposal that is going to cost us 2 billion. You don't provide cover. You say, "Go ahead." But you do not think the proposal that is before you is a good one either, because that does not change the priorities you are talking about. Indeed, these cohesion funds and those agricultural funds remain the same size as before. So you cannot support this proposal now. What does this Prime Minister have to come home with so that D66 can say: you did well, you have our support?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u68	Frankly, I have every confidence that the Prime Minister is not going to Brussels this week to sign there blindly on the cross. This is a proposal for a multiannual budget of the European Union, which we are all aware of. I hope that this Prime Minister, together with a number of other Member States, will be able to step up the process of modernising this budget more effectively than is currently the case in the proposal and, if necessary, to see whether direct funding can be a solution to the debate on national contributions. In this respect, I would like to say to the Prime Minister: take the time to achieve a good MFF; we really do not need to be out of it this week if it is not good enough yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u69	It is striking that this Prime Minister's commitment is exactly the opposite of what D66 wants. This Prime Minister says that the payment must be reduced, I must maintain my discount, the perception costs must remain 20% and the payment must not be raised. In other words, everything you say is exactly the opposite of the Prime Minister's commitment. So you cannot tell me that you are pleased with the commitment this Prime Minister is making to Brussels? You must give him a clear message, as the PVV always does, and say: listen, you must come home with this and otherwise it will be end practice with this cabinet. Then we can do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u70	The PVV asks the Prime Minister if he'll come home with a nexit. This means that every Dutchman loses €2,000 a year, because that way we will not benefit from the European internal market. So fortunately, the Prime Minister is not coming back with a negotiated outcome that makes the PVV happy. I say to the Prime Minister: it is good that you are committed to financial discipline in the European Union, but do not stare blindly at just the size of the European budget; also modernise this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u71	You are linking this budget to the internal market. That also bothers me with that "fair story," because those are two separate greats, who have nothing to do with each other. That budget is about the European Union, about the cohesion funds, about immigration. It has nothing to do with the internal market, with trade, with business. You have just voted in favour of the CETA Agreement. How much does Canada pay? How much does Canada contribute to the European Union? Canada is now part of the internal market. You made sure of that. Where's Canada's payment? Canada would be crazy. In other words, the internal market and the European Union budget have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u72	A nexit will certainly not allow us to continue to benefit from the internal market as much as we do today. I would like to say to the PVV Group: if we want Europe's external borders to be better monitored, if we want migration flows to be better coordinated, then we will also have to give Europe the tools to do so. Then we will have to ensure that Frontex is able to monitor those external borders. Then we will have to ensure that the European Asylum Agency can help to fill in these migratory flows in a different way. If you are angry about fraud and corruption in other European countries, then you must support the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is now far too few people are unable to deal with these many corruption and fraud cases. The solution to many of our problems lies in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u73	Finally. This is naive talk, because we have seen what Europe is doing at those external borders. Millions of refugees have come this way. Europe can't handle it. I don't trust it. I'd rather check my own boundaries. I'd rather have my own well-functioning Public Prosecutor's Office than leave it to Europe. In other words, you are thinking 'but yes, that is D66's own 'we cannot do it ourselves', we leave it all to Europe. But we can do it ourselves. Believe a little in yourself and don't believe in those bureaucrats in Brussels. It'll only cost you money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u74	We can do a lot of things ourselves in this country, and that is a good thing, but CO, criminals, migrants; they all do not stick to borders. So some problems you have to deal with each other. That is why I am once again in favour of a European budget that can do the same. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u75	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u76	Mr. Chairman. The other day I took the train to my beloved old student town Groningen. When you get out of there, you will see the station hall: made possible by the European Commission. Then I think: huh, made possible? Is this where Timmermans was bricking walls? Juncker paved the street here? You can almost see that. No, there's money coming from funds, grant money, to fix up that station hall there. But first we transfer that, and then Groningen has to apply and answer for it. I always call that pumping money around. We've had it calculated how much that money pumping around costs the Dutch government. That costs 140 million a year in bureaucracy. That just shows how big this madness really is. We do not even know what it costs in other countries or in Brussels, to keep up with all this, to keep receipts, but we do know that it also attracts a stream of lobbyists. They go to Brussels with each other and they say to each other and to journalists who are shy about news: yes, there are some dirty countries that no longer want to spend on the European Union, and that includes the Netherlands. And that, of course, is a frame that looks very good. Because yes, high up in your ivory tower or paid from European money is of course very easy to say that it can be more. The European official we hear on the radio and read about in the newspaper earns more than €10,000 a month. He's got a car with a driver. He has nothing to worry about when it comes to retirement. And when the Dutch taxpayer sits on the radio and hears that we have to pay more, he now knows where that comes from. No, no, we shouldn't be so cheap. Those who spend the money also know that more money is needed. But our government was cutting so hard on home care. We see people can't go to the nursing home anymore. The housing crisis has become so great by the Rutte Cabinets that there are even more homeless because there are no homes. And then the European Commission comes and says: we need more money. And the net contributor gets to pay that, and he loses his discounts too. Unacceptable. That's what the Prime Minister said about it, and it is. Too much money is wasted in the Brussels pump mill. It's going to the wrong place. Income support is given to farmers 90% of the agricultural policy relates to income support while it is primacy of Member States. That doesn't really belong there. I certainly see new challenges too, but that does not mean that the net contributors have to draw their wallets. And then the 1,000 billion for climate change from our climate pope, among other things, to enable investment for the financial sector. So again there must be public money to private companies for private profits. The Greek economist and former Finance Minister Varoufakis, we all know him well, this is called greenwashing: you have an old policy that you can't actually sell, but you say it's green policy; then everyone loves it, because yes, if you're criticizing it, then you'll be against the climate. This is not the European Union and the European cooperation we need. Mr. Chairman. The Bishop/Leijten motion adopted on 22 February 2018 says: a lower but at least the same lasting size. That motion has been passed. That is still the guiding principle for the government. I therefore assume that this Prime Minister will not be able to find a meeting room to deal with. Holle Bolle Gijs always feed more when he's hungry, doesn't satisfy his hunger. Telling Holle Bolle Gijs to make sure he uses his energy differently and otherwise spends his money is much more meaningful. I wish the Prime Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I sincerely hope that the Prime Minister will promise Mr Jetten that he will change his stubborn course, but my fine political feeling, as the Prime Minister has said, may be disappointing. That is why I would like to use my time to discuss the content of the budget in particular. What do we really want with the European Union? What do we want the European Union to do and what not? These questions must lead the debate on the budget. So we should not just talk about percentages, about discounts, about gross and net, about more or less and about greedy and greedy countries, but about what we want. How do we explain this to the taxpayer, says Mr Anne Mulder always when we have another debate on the payment? How do we explain that to the taxpayer? Well, Madam President, we can explain that. Sometimes it is very efficient to regulate European affairs, for example in defence or in migration. By working together in the EU, you collect economies of scale and save money on the national budget. Sometimes, for other reasons, it is better to regulate things at European level, for example, because otherwise freeriders will emerge within the Union: countries that do benefit from, but do not contribute to, common arrangements and accounts. Migration management and climate policy are examples of this. Sometimes there are even countries that gain a competitive advantage, consciously mostly and sometimes unconsciously, by not participating in European policies. For example, if you were to introduce a kerosene tax and you would do it with a few countries, then I think it would be much better to do it all together. So you can explain that to the taxpayer. Mr. Chairman. We should not just have this debate on Europe by hand. Or in the words of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of EZK, Mr Camps: concern about the size of the EU budget seems to be greater than concern about the future earning capacity of the European Union. I hope the Prime Minister will reflect on that thought. If it is possible to come back from the Brussels negotiations without any extra charge for the Netherlands, then it is very much a question of whether the Dutch interest is served by this. I believe that Mr Jetten also spoke about this: you can either turn in the modernisation or for a lower budget, but the question is whether that is wise. I don't think so, actually. The budget of the European Commission, Mr Koopman, was also here. He said that the Union would make the Netherlands less profitable if the EU budget was cut. I wonder what the Prime Minister thinks of that. We have to have the debate on the substance, I told you. I may be allowed to give two examples in the short time I have left. On the one hand, I mention the budget for research, innovation and Horizon Europe. This is increasingly important. The European Union continues to lag behind the US, China and Japan spending on research and development, for example. Only by working together at European level and not letting each Member State invent the wheel on its own and individually can this gap be effectively closed. How much money do you need for that? Is that the European Commission's figure, is that Mr Michel's figure, is that the amount of the Finnish Presidency? Is there anything to say about how much we need in Europe to compete with China, Japan and other countries in terms of innovation and new technology? I'm curious to hear the Minister's answer. By the way, you should ask that question with each budget category. In agricultural policy, for example, where we still have a great deal of income support, while we continue to reduce the expenditure on rural development, the second category that is so important, as the negotiations continue. That is a poor choice of substance in my group's view. I am curious to know what the Prime Minister thinks of this and I would ask him to look at these substantive glasses, not just at these points, but at all the budget items that are going to be discussed again in the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u79	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u80	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about what is at stake for the European Union over the next seven years, the direction we are taking. The budget is incredibly important in this respect. The strategy of the cabinet can be translated as follows. Where did it say "not a penny to the Greeks," it now says "not a penny to Brussels." It is the strategy of the ostrich, as Mr Jetten always calls it, of a fearful grocery store. Although I think he is wronging the many good grocers in this country. The Prime Minister seems to think that his domestic political statement is more important than the national interest, and that concerns me, because there is so much at stake. Let me give you an example: conditionality, the possibility of non-compliance with the European agreement to respect the rule of law and fight corruption has been weakened in the proposal. My question to the Prime Minister: could it not be in Dutch interest to pay a little more, but to protect that community of values for the future? My second example. The Prime Minister often and likes to talk about migration. We know that this year the migration deal with Turkey will end. We know that if something does not happen now, in September there will be no money for education for half a million Syrian children in Turkey. We know that, if nothing happens now, 1.7 million refugees in Turkey will no longer receive decent care next year. What do we see in the proposals? Nothing. Zero euros. This is a humanitarian tragedy, as we see today on the Greek islands, in the Greek camps. This humanitarian tragedy will be much greater if this cabinet does not work towards a sensible improvement, an extension of the agreements on decent care in the region. My question to the Prime Minister is: would it not be in Dutch interest to look at these people from our humanitarian commitment and indeed to spend more? This will also prevent a new refugee crisis. If the Prime Minister says that all this is not his business, then that also means how we should interpret the Prime Minister's words about refugees and migration. This is a time to do something about it. The Netherlands must have the lead in that. I ask the Prime Minister for a letter in which he indicates how the Netherlands will react to the end of that Turkey deal. My third example. Mr Van Ojik and Mr Jetten also called it modernisation. The cabinet is critical of the appreciation of the changes that are taking place today, the changes in agricultural policy, the use of innovation. What does that mean? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it may be in the Dutch interest to spend a little more and thereby give Dutch companies, Dutch entrepreneurs and Dutch citizens the opportunity to develop better and thereby contribute to sustainable development? The consequence of Rutte's strategy is ultimately a domestic defeat, but more importantly, because the Prime Minister is disappearing again over the next seven years with a budget that Europe is not ready for the future. Mr. Chairman. My question is this. It's time the ostrich put his head above the ground. It's time the grocery store looked around. It is time that the national interest outweighs the opportunistic political importance of the 1% promise. The 'unacceptable' should replace the role that one of the founding fathers of the European Union can and must play: a budget that is robust, that is economical but sensible, that we can move forward for seven years and that combines migration, climate change and economic growth in the interests of all European citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u81	Last question, Mr. Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u82	Really the very last one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u83	Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u84	Pooh, let's see how I can do that conveniently. I have a quiz question for Mr Asscher. Who's next quote, what was the function of the man and what's he doing now? "We want a lower budget, we want the Netherlands reasonably served in that sense that the position of the Netherlands as a net contributor is in proportion to the relative wealth of the Netherlands in the European Union. This means that there must be a correction to which we would come out without correction." Who said this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u85	You tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u86	That was Frans Timmermans in 2013. In international agreements, as we saw today at CETA, the Labour Party finds something different when it is in the cabinet than when it is in the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u87	I see Mr Mulder walking very happy to his place. That they may bestow upon Him with all their heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u88	He's not allowed anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u89	Let me just say this about it. Of course, there should be no more to such a budget than is necessary. I do not think there is anyone here, not even Mr Jetten, who claims that you have to spend endless money on it. But this is about the next seven years in a world that is very moving and in which the European Union must also play a geopolitical role. It would be unwise, for example, to reduce 34% of the budget for European border control, introduced under the Dutch Presidency, as stated in the Commission's proposal. We both remember. Now it's just decided to take a third of that off. What do you think is the consequence of that? How penny wise, pound foolish can you be? That's what this is about. It's just about Dutch importance. We share the quizz enthusiastship, so I'd like to play it with you, but we do have something important to discuss here. The Netherlands is going down a cul-de-sac for domestic use, with a prime minister making promises that he knows he shouldn't do. He also said he wouldn't do that anymore. We will soon be affected by this promise, especially the Dutch together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u90	Mr Asscher just accused the Prime Minister of opportunism and placing domestic politics above national interests. My question to Mr Asscher would be what figure he gives his own party in today's votes on the Free Trade Agreement with Canada. That treaty was negotiated by PvdA Minister Ploumen. It is a treaty with an ally that raises the bar for international trade. But the PvdA I really can't escape that impression, because of political opportunism and placing domestic politics above national interests, I finally made the turn and voted against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u91	I understand that question very well. I can also imagine that you were disappointed that we did not vote in favour of that treaty. In fact, to some extent I thought so too, because in principle we are in favour of trade. It's about the rules of the game we use. I also think there is a lot of good to say about that treaty. I followed the debate and regretted that it was a total black and white debate, with very big words. In our assessment, the way in which conflict resolution was secured is not optimal. It is precisely with an alliance with an ally that I would say that we must and can do better. That is why we finally made the assessment that we did not support it. I understand that you regret that very well, but as I respect your point of view, I assume that you also respect our position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u92	Of course, this sounds like a very reasonable answer, but that does not mean that the turn of the Labour Party on the Free Trade Agreement with Canada was a very special one. The Netherlands signed it when you were still in the cabinet. You were Deputy Prime Minister yourself. Minister Ploumen, your current colleague, was Minister for Foreign Trade. She has always received many compliments for the great end result she has managed to drag out with Canada. It is not yet perfect, but the vote of the Labour Party today against that free trade agreement with Canada raised the question of whether Mr Asscher's fine words are really serious to him. Is the Labour Party still that pro-European, internationally oriented party that really believes that we are only moving forward by working together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u93	On that last point, I can certainly reassure Mr Jetten. I also think it's... I understand your disappointment. I also understand that we really had some explaining to do. Nor was it a light decision to say that we cannot support it in the end. I don't like doing that. But it's done with conviction. You can rest assured that the Labour Party will always stand for the shaping of fair trade, for improvements. I do not think it would be wise for Mr Jetten to take the test to determine whether you are still in favour of cooperation, whether you are still pro-European and whether you are still in front of our allies, from anyone who thinks differently than he does about CETA. In this respect, from a democratic point of view, I found that very big words were used about everyone who was critical about it, whether it was the trade union movement or the environmental movement or a large number of political parties, not all parties that you normally dismiss as screamers. I always look at our point of view, how reasonable that is. I would like to give Mr Jetten not only to blow off the tower so high I saw the Minister; the Second World War was called upon to look at the arguments of opponents as well. Then you have a chance that eventually there will be a treaty that is better and will receive more support. I would like to give that to Mr Jetten. He can be convinced that I will be pro-European, but never uncritically European. This means that I think that things should be different, but that I believe in European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u94	Finally, Mr President. Mr Asscher has just tried three times, when he was standing here, to get me to give a figure to the Prime Minister. Now I'm being blamed for not having to take exams here. That feels a little cynical in this debate. But I welcome Mr Asscher's reply that the PvdA still wants to see how we can shape international trade fairly. I just saw a hopeful tweet from the First Chamber of the Labour Party, so my appeal to all the senators, including the PvdA, is: are you in favour of international trade? Would you like to raise this bar with Canada and Europe? Then vote for the free trade agreement with Canada soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u95	About that figure. Last time it was the spokesman for D66 who gave not one, but three insufficients to the Prime Minister. Of that, Mr Jetten said: I do not think that is relevant. Usually, we find it relevant when a coalition party gives an incompetence to the incumbent prime minister. The Prime Minister then said: I will see you in the group chairmen' meeting. He didn't say that for nothing. Mr Jetten has not gone at all. It's all a bit for the stage. I think that's from a different order. He didn't want to repeat those words, but he didn't want to take them back either. They're in the air somewhere now. We're sitting here with a prime minister accused of a grocery mentality who gets an incompetence from a coalition party. It is not taken back generously, but it is not repeated. Then Mr Jetten should not be surprised. That is also what our collective agreement says that I, as an opposition party, inform: what is the situation, do we still have a coalition or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u96	I was blamed for standing here in front of the stage. In my speech, I gave the Prime Minister very clearly the same priorities as Mr Asscher just did. He knows better than anyone that you don't always have to agree in coalitions. My commitment in Parliament is clear: to send the Prime Minister to Brussels with the task of modernising the European budget so that we can also use that money on the important issues of climate, security and migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u97	I conclude from this that you are not satisfied with the strategy pursued by this cabinet. At least if I'm satisfied, I'm not gonna call someone "spice mentality." It may be that the mores in that sense are very different now. That is possible, but usually that indicates that you are not super enthusiastic and also do not have a lot of confidence in the strategy pursued. That turned out to be the case, because in the previous three debates D66 was very vocal about that. There was tweeting. Mr Verhoeven is always very enthusiastic about this. Last time, he gave me an "D." He didn't do that once, he did it three times. He thought it was shortsighted, he thought it was obstinate, he thought the grocery mentality and the strategy had to be different. The Prime Minister said I'm not changing anything, find out, come to the coalition meeting. We're two months away, D66 sings the same song, but nothing's changed. So let's wait and see what it means this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u98	I would like to return to Mr Asscher's previous point on CETA. There's pros and cons to that. The parties make their own considerations and are for or against them. Mr. Asscher just said something very interesting...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u99	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u100	This applies to the whole group of the Labour Party. He just said if you vote against it, you might get a better treaty. But the entire ministerial team of the Labour Party, of which he and Mrs Ploumen were part, voted and signed off on half of the previous cabinet. A treaty can still be amended if you are negotiating, but now we are in the yes/no phase. What has changed Mr Asscher that he did not say with his entire group in 2016: this is not good enough, let us renegotiate? That could have been done then, because it was not in the coalition agreement that CETA had to be signed. Then they all signed, but now, in 2020, he says "mwah, I don't think it's good enough, it gets better," when I have no idea what it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u101	The main reason, as I said just now in reply to Mr Jetten, is that although we are positive about many parts of the Treaty, we are, and will remain, positive about many parts of the Treaty. We are also positive about the political agreement that we voted for today by a majority of the Chamber. We also see improvements compared to the previous variant of ISDS to the ICS as it is now. But we believe that the trade union movement and the defenders of human rights and of climate and environment in particular should have a stronger position at that table. That is what the Minister said at the time that it has not yet finished. You can't change that unilaterally now, and I understand that very well. What is needed for this is a coalition of ministers who in Canada, where there are the same objections, lead to a better result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u102	The reasons for voting in favour and against have been widely exchanged. I'm not excited about that. You could just be against that. This is a very specific question. Under the identical treaty voted on today, Mrs Ploumen signed with the agreement of all seven Ministers of the Labour Party, including Mr Asscher, in the previous cabinet. It's the identical text. It hasn't changed a jot. Then you could have said: it is just at that point not good enough, go on negotiating. So something's happened and I've been looking for something in the last four years. Let me get this straight. What has changed between 2016 and 2020 that in 2016 Mr Asscher, Ms Ploumen and all PvdA'ers... Nobody voted the other way. There were no dissidents. What changed about that treaty in those four years that made the entire PvdA there for, and now she's saying no to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u103	I see the Prime Minister is going to sit down to hear the answer. Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u104	If the Prime Minister is happy with me, then... But I'm very curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u105	I think the most important thing is how hard you think that point weighs. Times are different in that respect. Look also at the attitude of the trade union movement and also at the importance that we now attach to curbing the power of multinationals. It seems very strange to me that four years later you should not be allowed to judge again whether it is sufficient or not. I think I was just saying to Mr Jetten that it was not such an easy balance, that as far as I am concerned, the discussion should not be so black and white and that I do not think it is so democratic. We find this point too problematic, compared to the result that was there, a result with a lot of good in it. We find this point too problematic to be able to vote in favour of the Treaty now. I would have liked it better if the cabinet with the treaty in hand had formed a coalition to do so. We have also given every reason for this and this was called for after that moment in 2016, among other things in Parliament's motion. It has been called for by Mrs Ploumen, but also by the then parliamentary group of the PvdA. Furthermore, this signal has not led to a result which we could now agree to. That is a pity, but that is what happened between 2016 and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u106	I conclude that the Labour Party regrets 2016. Because if you didn't think a treaty was right in 2016, and you didn't commit to it in a coalition deal, too.That could just happen.You should have told the Prime Minister in 2016: I'm fine with everything, but we're not gonna sign this. The Labour Party didn't do that at the time. In doing so, the party has deprived itself of the opportunity to negotiate another treaty. And now, after more than 12 countries have already ratified the treaty, the PvdA pretends that you could now refuse and everyone says: Oh, the Netherlands, what awesome, what would you like today? I don't think that's gonna make them all very happy. So Mr Asscher is actually saying here: I would simply have done better in 2016 not to sign that treaty at the time. For my part, he says: with the knowledge of today. I would like to hear that honestly from Mr Asscher. Does Mr Asscher think it would have been better if the PvdA ministers had said in 2016: we are not doing this, however difficult it may be? Does Mr Asscher say: but I did it anyway, and I should not have done so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u107	There are a lot of arguments in this question. I would like to thank Mr Omtzigt and all the Members of this House for assessing such a treaty after four years: are we right or not? You have such a ratification procedure for that too, and that is why a parliament can look at it. We have indeed wondered: do we like it or not? We have come to this conclusion. And between 2016 and now, things have happened. There have been missed opportunities and opportunities; you can find all kinds of things about them. But I would like to give it to Mr Omtzigt and all the Members of this House that we take our work seriously here. Then you judge whether something is right or wrong. If it's good enough, you'll back it up. And if it's not good enough, you don't support it. I'm sorry, because I think there were quite a few ways to make it better. I think they're still there, too. I do not think Mr Omtzig's argument just now that others will be angry or not happy, is the most strong argument, because we are doing our job here freely. We come to a judgment, and we try to do it with integrity. I assume that's what's happening to you, Mr. Ommzigt, and now you're assuming that's what's happening to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u108	That's what I'm assuming. Has the Cabinet assessed the CETA Convention as a whole on its merits in 2016 before the Cabinet has signed the Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u109	I am not in a position to speak on behalf of the cabinet; Mr Omtzigt knows that very well. He was talking about votes and he was talking about seven PvdA ministers. There was no vote and there were no seven PvdA ministers. If Mr Omtzigt has any questions to the cabinet, he must put them to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u110	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I call Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union. I thought the debate on CETA was over. The votes have already been taken. This is a repeat, but okay. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Which European Union do we want? The Christian Union wants a European Union in which our values are central and in which we focus on the major challenges we face today: migration, climate, energy, security, innovation. These are the themes on which we need European cooperation very much. This calls for choices. The budget is the way to steer what you think is important. The adoption of the European Union's multi-annual budget is therefore also the means of focusing on the challenges we face in the Union in the coming years, on what we really think is important and on what we need to tackle together. Reform of the European budget was also necessary in order to do this really well. We've talked about this a lot in the Chamber. That was the intention, but we can see that at the moment this is only moderate, if I am being honest. In addition, the European budget is not going down, which is obvious now that the British are leaving the Union, but is growing, and is still growing. In the last proposal by President-in-Office of the Council, Charles Michel, we see 134 billion more expenditure than we are now facing. The Christian Union is concerned about the negotiations. Are these reforms really getting off the ground? The values of the Union, such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, but also the rule of law and respect for human rights, are the values that should initially link us. The Christian Union strongly supports the creation of a mechanism that will deteriorate as countries, if the rule of law in a European country deteriorates, which will have consequences for the contribution that that Member State will receive from the Union. The last proposals made by Charles Michel make it more difficult to use them. The instrument is weakened. The Christian Union demands the unabated commitment of the cabinet to support this instrument, so that it can really be used effectively. I come to the reform of agriculture. Shouldn't the agricultural funds lead to the promotion of sustainable agriculture? Does it now benefit the greening and the conversion to circular agriculture, which we in the Netherlands make such a work of? Will these agricultural funds contribute to achieving the objectives of the Green Deal? Then there is the cohesion funds, a very big bite from the European budget. Last year the European Court of Auditors concluded that 280 billion from these funds remain on the shelf. Member States simply do not get it spent. They can't get the co-financing. Until this year, more than 27% of the total budget available in the current budget had been spent. In the previous budget at the same time about 33%. Why does that have to be such a big bite from the budget? That budget can be reduced, can't it? I would ask for the Prime Minister's response to this. Money seeks project is now the guiding principle. But sometimes no project is found at all or the money is spent on projects whose usefulness can be contested. Should the reform not take account of the money that is still on the table and not reduce the budget? Should the cabinet not reform and use other mechanisms, such as more competition between countries, as advocated by the European Court of Auditors? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. The Christian Union supports the cabinet's efforts to advocate a smaller European budget and also a substantial reduction for the entire term. The Christian Union also calls on the government to always link this commitment to substantive objectives and to ask itself which European Union we want, and to go on the road with that story, also to the forthcoming summit. Finally, I would ask the Prime Minister whether he considers it possible for an agreement to be reached at this summit or whether more time is needed to do so properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u112	Mr Tony van Dijck, fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u113	Yes, a small question to Mrs. Van der Graaf. In the past, I have always been an ally of Mrs Schouten. It also had a critical attitude towards the European Union. Since the Christian Union joined the coalition, I haven't seen much of that. If this Prime Minister comes back with a budget and a payment higher than we have so far, do you think he should veto it? Or do you accept that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u114	At the moment, I see that there are still supporters to bet on a smaller European budget. I think that is a very good thing. That's what we're arguing for. It's hard to say right now that you should be vetoing, because it's still under negotiation. I hope that the Prime Minister will explain this later. I have said here that the Christian Union wants the European budget to be reduced and that the current President-in-Office's proposal cannot be the outcome of the negotiations, because then something is not going well. I said where we want the money to be used. It really needs to be used in a different way. That budget will have to be reformed. That is why, at the forthcoming European summit, I also called on the Prime Minister not only to call for a reduction in the budget, but also to always link it with substantive objectives to underpin the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u115	Finally. Last question, Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u116	Yeah, because what's... Then I'll keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u117	That's what I thought. Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u118	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u119	Then I will go to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to talk about two points: the payment, the rate of payment, and in that context, of course, the tendency to introduce direct EU taxes. Mr. Chairman. It is a bit strange development, but the Netherlands today, together with Sweden, Austria and Denmark, is among the greedy four. And the Netherlands is frustrating European cooperation. And the Netherlands is very unwise when it comes to the geopolitical dimension. Look at China and so on. This is an overly transparent framing, which is also taken over by some colleagues. It clearly shows the EU's relations. You're stingy if you want to keep your payments straight, maximum, because it should actually go down, given that the United Kingdom has left. Let's leave that frame for what it is. We call this a realistic approach. As far as the SGP is concerned, our contribution is limited to 1% of gross national product and the contribution will certainly not increase in the years to come, at least in percentage terms, if the economy is growing, then of course it will increase in absolute terms. An EU without the British, a modern EU, should save instead of spending, focus on core tasks rather than interfering with everything, especially with those sectors for which countries and the EU share a shared responsibility. Such an EU should not try to broaden its share but rather narrow it down and support the countries in order to be able to make a good contribution. I would like to refer with Mrs Leijten to our joint motion which she has quoted. I'm asking the Prime Minister if that's still the line he's going to follow. Mr. Chairman. During the previous debate on the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Prime Minister indicated that he was committed to an equal contribution. How will he ultimately ensure that the Netherlands gets a proposal where the countries do not pay more than 1%? And is the Prime Minister prepared to pass on the decision-making if necessary if no proposal meeting Dutch standards is reached this week? If necessary, we'll talk later, I'd like to ask him. Charles Michel's recent proposal focuses on a much larger contribution. I would like to mention a few points. The discount will be reduced. The Netherlands must pay an even higher percentage of the levy on import goods. The European Peace Facility is placed outside the MFF ceiling. The budget for this is increasing by 3.5 billion. 100 billion will be paid into the European Investment Fund. The structural funds are being redesigned so that even more money goes from the rich to the poorer countries. Special instruments are financed outside the MFF ceiling. These are all points that can increase the Dutch contribution via a detour. How's the Prime Minister gonna prevent that? Mr Michel's proposal redesignes the agricultural supplement. That's bad for the Netherlands. At the same time, the agricultural budget is being cut and part of the Green Deal may be financed from the agricultural budget. The accumulation of these and other measures will make farmers more financially undressed. I would like a response from the Prime Minister. Let me turn to the issue of European taxes. The pressure to introduce direct EU taxes is increasing, but these taxes too will increase the Dutch taxpayer's questioning of the EU through a direct line. This applies not only to the Dutch taxpayer, but also to those in other European countries, but we are dealing with the Dutch. How is the Prime Minister going to prevent the EU from outsmarting us, either through European taxes or through all kinds of accounting tricks, and our payments by detours will increase? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the payment simply cannot be more than 1% of the gross national product, however this payment is designed? Mr President, I am over my time. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u121	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u122	Mr. Chairman. A special extra summit will be organised for the MFF. The positions of the Member States are still very far apart. The CDA Group is content with the commitment of the Dutch government, but the key question that has been raised here before is: how do we ensure that citizens have confidence in European institutions? This is the first summit in which the United Kingdom is no longer a member of this Union. It seems that a number of Member States are thinking: we are getting two hundred percent ahead of it and it is 100% up to the citizens of Great Britain that they have left. But it is important that the Union remains attractive to all those citizens and that it delivers results. That is why the CDA Group would like to hear whether the Dutch Government is prepared to ask someone outside, alone or with others, what led to large groups of citizens, including a majority of the British in a referendum, turning away from the Union, knowing that it could also have an impact on trade, for example. Let me give you an example. Trade isn't all that matters. Is that what the government wants? Then the MFK itself. The commitment of the Netherlands is correct, but are we going to make it? It is important that this discount is not a descending discount, but remains constant over time. Otherwise you might say, "Well, for the next two years, it's good for this reigning period," but at the next MFK you'll get back into a proper discussion. I would like to add my voice to what Mr Bishop said. If you dare to call the country that contributes the most net per person to the Union, which is not even the richest country in the Union, 'negligible', then you are negotiating and you are not just trying to tell the truth here. Yes, the Netherlands has a lot to gain from the Union and the Netherlands has a lot to gain from the internal market. Countries like Norway and Switzerland, which are outside, also have a lot to gain from it, but that does not mean that a blank cheque is written for it. Mr. Chairman. I have a few specific questions. I have two questions about the euro area budget. In the earlier version there was a key that 70% would go back to the Member States themselves. That's what we wanted, but I don't see it anymore. Are we gonna bet on that? And who decides on expenditure from a budget that can only go to a limited number of countries, namely the euro countries? The CDA Group agrees that the national key is not only about GNI, but also about recycled plastic and part of the second European trading mechanism, but it does not agree with it anymore. Brussels may dream of new taxes, but whatever proposal comes up, there is still just a national veto. The latest version contains 100 billion additional capital for the European Investment Bank, of which 10 billion is paid up. It can generate 500 billion loans. Now an illustrious CDA member said that I am not going to organise a quiz, because Mr Mulder is gone, namely Mr Ruding, that the road to financial hell is paved with guarantees. With the Juncker Fund, but also with the European Central Bank, Europe has spent a lot of guarantees and things on probation. Sometimes that is even more dangerous than a budget itself, because that money you collect and spend. Guarantees can be very dangerous. So are there any possibilities not to issue new guarantees? How do we keep that within our limits? Then there are two small things that may be small within the MFF, but which we do have some questions about. The first is the voluntary pension fund of MEPs. We may have to cut pensions here, because pension funds are below 100%; they are below 30%. That's just because there's not much to pay and a lot to be promised. I don't want to tie a metaphor to that, but it wasn't a good idea. I ask the Dutch Government not to accept any proposal to adjust it from the euro area budget. I shall look at Mr Jetten, for example. This does not contribute to the well-being of the citizens of Europe, I say. Secondly, we would also like to have a small explanation of the subsidies that journalists from Brussels can get. What exactly is the deal with that? And are certain guarantees of independence, as proposed by, for example, the European Ombudsman, also because of the efforts of the Netherlands? In the Netherlands, we also provide subsidies in the state budget, but they should not affect objectivity and they should also be given to people who do not fully agree with what the Union is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u123	Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u124	Yes. That's kind of important. That's the essence. Otherwise, you will have to work in North Korea or China.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u126	Finally, Mr President. One more thing. That rule of law mechanism is incredibly important; maintain it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Oh, Mr Van Ojik has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u128	Yeah, I'll be there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u129	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have a few more, so I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u130	Well, a few? Let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u131	Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u132	Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u133	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u134	You have two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u135	Look, a few. I told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u136	You saved it for Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u137	Sure. I also know that's gonna be worth it now. Anyone following the negotiations will say: there could be a trade-off between modernisation and the level of the payment. The Netherlands says: we both want that; we want a lower contribution and modernisation. But there's hardly anyone who believes that that can come out. I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt the following. If he has to choose, perhaps not now, but the next time he has thought about it, what will he choose, modernisation or a lower payment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u138	I am voting in favour of a modern budget and not a rising payment. Let me be honest here: even the parties who are in favour are not thinking that the payment will go down net. We'd like to keep him constant. We contribute net to Europe. That can be because we are slightly richer than average in Europe. But we don't have to contribute much anymore. There's also been a misunderstanding here. It might be good to clean that up. That is that there would be no modernisation in the current proposal. Even in Mr Michel's proposal, expenditure on migration is increasing by more than 100%. I know that a number of people want that to be even more, but I do not agree with the fact that the priorities that are being appointed are being reduced. They are cut down on previous proposals, but they are doubled compared to current policies. So don't tell me nothing's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u139	Mr Van Ojik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u140	To be honest, I am not very impressed by that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u141	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u142	I believe that Mr Michel's proposal is now about 25 billion, I say it out of my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u143	22 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u144	That's on a budget of 1,000 or 1,100 billion. When we talk about modernisation, we look at agricultural expenditure and expenditure on cohesion. I hope that Mr Omtzigt agrees with me. So it may well be, even more so, that everyone thinks it is very likely that there will be a trade-out between the payment and the modernisation. Then I am really talking about these large posts, I say to Mr Omtzigt, and not about the 25 billion for migration; however much that is, it is relatively little. I ask Mr Omtzig again, because he says: I want it both. Yeah, I always want everything at once, but I've learned that that's not always possible in life. Suppose Mr Omtzigt is going to have to choose later, and I predict that he will have to choose. What will he choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u145	27 countries will have to choose together. That's fucking tricky. But it is suggested here that Europe's only policy areas would be climate, security and migration. The reason why we are not talking about agriculture here is that food supply in Europe is of an extremely high level and does not present any problems at the moment. The reason why a number of countries are drawing more heavily on cohesion funds than we like is that, after five years of economic growth, youth unemployment in Spain is still 30%, and that some of these countries state their reasons: we have a number of regional problems here that directly affect the well-being of our citizens. So the suggestion about all these funds as if it's all bullshit what's going on there, I'm just throwing it away. There seems to be a bit of the idea that everything we do about cohesion is always wrong or that everything we do about agriculture is always wrong. But the viability of rural areas and food supplies are sometimes even more important than some of those other things, because without them we would not have this whole debate. I therefore hope that there will be a balanced proposal. That is the fate of a middle party: you call something balanced and people think it's not about anything. But it means that there must also be attention to good border control and attention to good food supply and a liveable countryside. Both are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u146	Good. Mrs Leijten, this will be your fifth question and Mr Anne Mulder still has to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u147	Yeah, save it for Anne!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u148	In the written consultations we held last week in preparation for the preparatory meeting of the Foreign Ministers at this European summit, the CDA Group asked for confirmation that there is no increase in the net contributor function. Agreed. But it also wants to see the adjustments to the common agricultural policy and the cohesion funds before the government can agree. How exactly does she see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u149	I must say that I sometimes criticize letters we get from the government that are not very much in it, more often than the government likes. But let me say that I found the letter we received yesterday on the commitment to the European summit extremely clear. For once, this made it very clear where the borders of the Netherlands lie. With that commitment, my group can live very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u150	This is what happened to Mr Van Ojik just now. He just asked a question and then it was pretended that everyone would be against everything about cohesion and agriculture. Now I am asking a question about something the CDA Group has said, and suddenly it is about a letter from the government. I am asking what the CDA Group means by that. Why does the CDA Group want to see the compromises on the common agricultural policy and cohesion funds before it can accept the final result?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u151	We want to see that. As far as we are concerned, it is well expressed in the letter. If the government abides by that, it can agree to a deal as far as we are concerned, but we want to see it. If the government gets out of there badly, she'll have to come back to the Chamber again. But she has given herself a mandate which we can very well agree with. Why? It's very simple. That letter came after we asked this question. We wanted a clear response from the government to that negotiating box. That's what we're about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. No, Mrs Leijten, I am no longer giving you the floor. I am sorry, Mrs Leijten, but if I allow another question, I will have to do so with eleven spokesmen. We made a deal about that. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u153	Mr. Ommzigt, if you'd like to answer Mrs. Leijten in a moment. I'm sure you'll be fine. Mr. Chairman. An extraordinary European summit in two days, where the Prime Minister goes on behalf of the Netherlands. That's convenient, because I think these are extraordinary times. The European Commission has made a nice decoration with a Green Deal, but the ink was not yet dry or the same European Commission said: but we do want that trade agreement with the United States, which no longer participates in the Paris climate agreement. Agriculture would not be in it, but the Commissioner has invented a trick to ride agriculture in that treaty anyway. The Party for Animals is surprised about that, especially about the cabinet response to the Green Deal that we now officially have. We read that the Cabinet writes: "The Cabinet welcomes this broad and ambitious approach that is well in line with the cabinet's commitment to future EU policies as defined in the State of the Union. The cabinet has been working on this in the past few months. The Green Deal seems to be broadly in line with the national climate agreement, the cabinet's commitment to a circular economy, the protection of air and water quality, the transition to circular agriculture and the strengthening of biodiversity." I don't quite understand that. Can the Prime Minister clarify exactly how big this cycle is in the definition of the cabinet? Because when you make free trade deals with Brazil, the United States, Canada and Thailand, you see the whole world as the cycle and nothing changes about agricultural policy at all. I have already asked the Prime Minister whether he is also having an exchange of views with the farmers he is talking to all the time in the context of the nitrogen crisis. Dutch agriculture must change, if it is up to the cabinet. It will be circular agriculture, but we do not yet know exactly how the cabinet sees it. Furthermore, farmers must adapt, because the government's nitrogen policy has finally and happily been undermined. But at the same time, with the support of the Dutch Government, the European Union is opening its borders to products that are produced far below European standards. Unfortunately, we have seen a sad vote today in the Lower House about CETA, but we have hope for the Upper House. Mercosur is still at the door. And then we haven't had Thailand yet. What did the farmers actually say in the talks that the Prime Minister had with them about the free trade agreements? What about agricultural subsidies? We are also talking today about the Multiannual Financial Framework, as it is called, or: what will be going through European money over the next seven years? 365 billion in agricultural subsidies which, to a large extent, fall into dairy farming, thus financing your own nitrogen crisis. I don't know, but I haven't actually seen the cabinet object to that. So where exactly is the transition from agriculture going? How does this Green Deal fit in with the cabinet's ambitions for enhancing biodiversity? Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party is in favour of European cooperation, but as long as the European Union is deeply democratically flawed and always puts neoliberal profit thinking above important values, such as: what does this mean for people?; Can everyone experience these developments?; Not only do we think in cold winners and losers pictures, but do we also see if it makes people better?; Does it help our nature?; Does it make our agriculture stronger?; Are we protecting our farmers? Such a European Union is a two-faced Union. And the ugliest face wins. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u154	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u155	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the officials for the great work they have done this weekend. Because we got Friday, at least, we didn't get it, it was leaked from Mr Michel's proposal and last Monday morning we already found a cabinet juice valuation. That means some people have been working hard this weekend. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. The European Union must solve the major cross-border problems that countries cannot solve themselves. That's where European money has to go. A budget means making choices. If you want to spend extra money, you also have to show where you want to get it, where you want to cut back. In the Netherlands we have that tradition, also in this Chamber. If you want to spend extra money, it's a good use that you're looking for cover. We are also doing so in the run-up to elections. Expenditure on the state budget is under review. That's what we call rethinking. The parties can then choose where they want to cut back and to which they want to spend extra money. Unfortunately, the European Union does not do so to that extent. You can ask yourself a number of spending reviews what the quality of it is. It is a pity that the European Union does not. That also means that the authority of the budget before us is rather low. The European Court of Auditors, Mr Van der Graaf, also said something about this: money in search of a project rather than a project looking for money. We know the footage of those empty ports. Normally boats must be docked in ports, but often ports are used and constructed as employment projects. In Hungary we know a football stadium in the birthplace of Mr Orbán. There's a train that doesn't have anyone else on it. Those are the images that Dutch people see. It would be a good thing if the European Commission had done something about this and done something about it. As I said, the European budget, the money, must go to the major cross-border problems. They have already been mentioned here: security, migration, climate. And to some extent this is also happening in Mr Michel's present budget. But what do you see? A number of Member States do not agree with this. They look at: what do I have now and what do I want to keep? See, for example, that meeting of the fifteen people who are kindly called "Friends of Cohesion." They all fly to Portugal. The theme of that meeting is: how do I keep what I have? The European Union as a milk cow. It is extremely unfortunate that these countries see the European Union as a milk cow and do not want to look at the major challenges. The cabinet tried to do something about it, in 2016 with Minister Dijsselbloem and Minister Koenders. The Netherlands was the chairman at the time. They brought all the people to Amsterdam: let's get out of that trench, out of that shooter's pit of the net contributor's instinct. This was attempted in a number of meetings. I have to say, unfortunately, that did not work. And if the European Union is going through its own expenditure, if it is that all kinds of countries, fifteen countries, look at the vested interests, if you see that the President-in-Office of the Council is not choosing Charles Michel but stacking, then it is perfectly understandable that the Dutch cabinet says: let us keep the zero. This is also in line with the feelings of a majority of the Dutch people about the budget. I believe that Mrs Leijten said this: two thirds of Dutch people do not want extra money to go to the European Union. Well, don't do that, because that will touch the people's support for the European Union. So the VVD understands the government's strategy. We have also seen that the cabinet is looking for allies, yesterday in a well-written article in The Financial Times: Sweden, Denmark, the Prime Minister and the Austrian Chancellor. Very well, find allies. Two more questions for the Minister. What are his expectations for the next few days? I understand he should bring extra shirts, maybe paracetamol, I don't know. Is there gonna be a deal this week? And if that is not the case, what are the consequences? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u156	One final question from Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u157	I saved up the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u158	Yes, for Mr. Anne Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u159	The Netherlands is paying 8 billion to the European Union this year. You yourself say that there are 16 countries that see the European Union as a milk cow. They want to keep it that way. By giving this Prime Minister the commitment of 'try to keep the zero line', you are holding on to that milk cow, because then the European Union will remain a milk cow for those 16 countries. There might have been even more milk in it, but it's still a milk cow. So you're actually saying, we're just gonna take away 8 to 10 billion each year for the next seven years by 16 countries that see us as milk cow. That is what you are proposing, and you are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u160	Well, let's get the numbers right. Mr Van Dijck is right: the Netherlands pays 8 billion and indeed receives 2.5 billion in return, so that net position is not 8 billion but 5.5 billion. I think that's good. We are a relatively prosperous country, so we can pay a little more. We have received countries from the former Warsaw Pact. They have to come a long way, and then I understand that you want to support them. There are also very good examples of how that money was spent, because it's not just trouble and torment. Look at the Baltic railroad, as it is called, which connects Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. While the links used to be with Moscow, these countries are now connected, and they are experiencing very good economic growth. This kind of money is well spent. So we can help them, because those countries come a long way. But it shouldn't be too crazy. That is why my group says: keep zero, and also ensure new priorities, security, migration, climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u161	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u162	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch currently pay around €1,000 per household per year to the European Union. This makes us the largest net contributor of all the Member States of the European Union and all residents of the European Union. The Dutch pay by far the most and the European Union now wants that amount to increase by over 60% from next year. So over €1,600 per household per year we have to pay. From €1,000 per year to €1,600 per year, while what most people want is access to European markets, but a fraction of it has to cost. Norway, Switzerland and Iceland pay an average of €50 per household per year. With this they have all the advantages that we enjoy, but not all the costs, all the immigration, all the inflation that is the result of the dramatic euro coin and all the rules. They too simply have access to European markets. They too can simply act with their neighbours, as many other countries in the world can do with us. Have you ever looked at your iPhone? It says behind it: developed in the United States, made in China. With the United States we have no European Union or even a trade treaty, and with China we have no European Union and no trade treaty, and yet we all have an iPhone. We can just act. So where does all that money from the European Union go? Not to the European market, because, as I said, it costs up to €50 per household per year. €1.550 per household per year will soon go from the Netherlands to harness all those attributes of stateliness that the European Union draws towards it. The European Union does not want to be or never will be a trade union at all. The European Union has never been set up in any way to facilitate trade between Member States. The European Union has been set up and conceived on the basis of the ambition to install a federal, i.e. central state on the European continent. And that went through some kind of trade cover, but that was never the intention. It has never been the ambition to simply facilitate trade. That's never been the point. That is not the EU's goal at all. Those who are still defending that against better knowledge in that way simply do not understand it. The European Union is a state in the making. All that money goes to that state's becoming. So to arranging foreign policy. To set up ferry services to transfer immigrants from Africa to Europe to weaken national identity so that there will be no more national states. To the construction of wind turbines and to the setting up of solar fields, because the Green Deal of Timmermans has to be implemented and paid for. Towards a European Public Prosecutor's Office with European policemen, European uniforms, European soldiers, European flags and national anthems, European propaganda, European school agendas and European training institutes. A total of 13 billion per year from the Netherlands alone. That is €1.550 per household per year, while only that market costs up to €400 per household per year. So the question is: do we want to? Do we want anonymous European bureaucrats to gradually gain political power over our country through all kinds of rules and policies? Or we'd rather have our own democracy and that 1,300 million a year...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u163	Billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u164	1,300 million is indeed 13 billion. Or would we rather spend 1,300 million a year on, for example, care, education, safety, housing or infrastructure? I think it's the last one. I think we simply want to trade in the Netherlands, which costs €50 per household per year, and that we want to spend the €1,550 per household per year, i.e. 1,300 million per year, on protecting our democracy and investing in our public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u165	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u166	This cabinet must set the Dutch interest first. Rutte cannot accept this budget. In the second term, we will table a motion calling on him to use his veto and say no to this further extension of the power of Brussels. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u167	Thank you. I would ask you to stick to the speaking time next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u168	If Rutte is sticking to the budget, I'm okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u169	No, I'm not about that; I'm just about the order of business. Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u170	Mr Baudet called on the Prime Minister to use his veto. But does Mr Baudet realize what the result will be if we veto the budget and ultimately do not achieve a different outcome? That means the end of the Dutch discount. This makes it an even greater contribution to Europe. The use of the veto is not exactly what Mr Baudet should want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u171	I don't think so. I think it is extremely important that we, as the largest net contributor, show the European Union that we must stop taking the Netherlands bare. We have seen a great deal of our own power and our own prosperity evaporate at that institute, while in the Netherlands I have also tried to indicate it in my speech just want to trade with our environment and to deal with our neighbors in a fun and normal way. That's what it's been about. That's what people wanted. What they got was something completely different. That's a power fantasy. From Napoleon to Hitler to what you now have in the EU: always the attempt to bring those European countries under central control. And it's not working. It's not working, it's never worked, and it's never gonna work. We must now put our fist on the table and say: no, we are not doing it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u172	I am listening very carefully to Mr Baudet's speech. He actually indicates there's some kind of conspiracy. We are pretending to want to trade, but in fact from the very beginning we are working on a Hitler-like fantasy to create a state.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u173	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u174	He says that immigrants are brought here to weaken our identity. Then who does he think is behind this conspiracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u175	The people who are in favour of the European Union. Look, there's been a huge conspiracy around the term "conspiracy." That's very interesting. It may be due to the semantic delicacy of that word, but they are simply planning to do so. This can easily be found in the official writings of the European Union. So if Mr Asscher means by his intervention to ask if I think there is a parallel system of other documents and agreements that we do not know and which would run counter to what is available in public documents, then I say: no, the interesting thing about the European conspiracy and that grand undertaking to destroy the European nation states is that it happened openly. Of course you have all kinds of more or less superficial political leaders at national level, who say that the European Union will never become a state and such. Anyway, those are the useful idiots of the project. But the EU's popes, the real rulers, from Robert Schuman to Jean Monnet to Jacques Delors and so on, and the Presidents of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, all those people, have always been absolutely clear about the objectives of the project. When you go to Rome, to the Capitol, you see the stairs and the beautiful statue of Marcus Aurelius. Behind that, at the Capitolijns museum, you can find a memorial stone from 1957: "Here the European nations have decided to unite in a political union in the making." Then, about fifty years later, when the European Constitution was drawn up, which was eventually aligned in that referendum and which became the Treaty of Lisbon, they made a second memorial: 'Here it is, after all, an imperialist union'. Eventually, they've gotten rid of that memorial stone a little bit, because it's tuned. But that's just the goal. That's what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u176	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u177	I don't think about Verhofstadt with people like Rob Jetten and people like that very much. He's just being honest: he wants a United States of Europe. Fine. You can be for or against that. I would say: put it to the people and hold a referendum. People say yes or no, ready. I have a problem with that pretending. "We are in the EU because of trade." Bullshit! Total quatsch! "We have the euro to facilitate trade." Bullshit! "We have open borders because we don't have trucks..." That has nothing to do with it. It's just a political project...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u178	Good. I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u179	... to make the peoples of Europe one amalgam...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u180	Okay. You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u181	... and to realize the central exercise of power over it. That's the point. Why don't you just say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u182	Easy, Mr. Baudet. Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u183	I have no problem with differing views on the extent to which one should work together in Europe and on the extent to which there should be more political cooperation in addition to trade. I believe that Mr Baudet is right in his own right that the history of war on this continent is one of the reasons for coming to the European Union and that one of the reasons we are considering this year is 75 years of freedom and security in the European Union. So it is indeed more than just trade. That doesn't mean there's a secret conspiracy. I come forward because Mr Baudet in his list of grievances actually says that there is a conspiracy to bring immigrants here to weaken our identity. If you're gonna say something like that, you're gonna have to prove it, I think. My question is whether Mr Baudet is aware of this, and I suspect he is, but it would be so fair if he were to testify to honesty, which he advocates, that he is spreading an extreme right-wing or radical right-wing theory, laundering in this Chamber. He can do that. I will defend his right to express such views here, in a democracy. But even then, it would fit if he didn't change it into some kind of factuality, but if he indicated, this is a conspiracy theory that I, Thierry Baudet, believe in and I want to scare you. But he also knows that reality is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u184	I think I have just received the same question and I have already answered it. The word "conspiracy theory" is apparently semantic. So here's what I'm talking about. A conspiracy is a plan. There's a plan. Mr Asscher has the word 'conspiracy'. I didn't say "secret." I expressly contradicted that. It is not secret; it can be found in all the official documents of the European Union. I thought I said it all, but apparently I have to say it again: there is absolutely no parallel system of secret documents that would run counter to the official documents. On the contrary. The interesting thing about the European project is that it has been fair from the outset in the official documents about the intention. Only, you have all kinds of useful idiots at national level who say that the European Union is not becoming a state: "We are not going to do this! You're not afraid at all, because that's never gonna happen." Bullshit, bullshit. That's gonna happen, and it's gonna happen now. About the issue of immigration. Wolfgang Schäuble said in the FAZ, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, 'if we do not mingle as Europeans, we will fall prey to incest'. He literally said that. That's a quote. Frans Timmermans also said it, in that affected quasiaccent of him: "the future will be diversity." He just said that. They say it, and they want it. That's the goal. The goal is multiculturalism. The aim is to weaken European traditional identities. That is the official ideology of the EU. It has nothing to do with what Mr Asscher has put in my mouth, a secret conspiracy theory. It's a plan. This is what they want. And that is indeed partly due to the misreading of European history. So a number of people who are in favour of this have, tragically, drawn the wrong conclusions from World War II. Because that wasn't about nationalism at all. It was about fascism and national socialism. They were in the process of European unification. They were imperialist ideologies. That's what Mussolini wanted. That's what Hitler wanted. We have come to the wrong conclusion from European history. Nation-states are inherently peaceful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u185	I still want to put an end to this...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u186	For what nation state would want to conquer the territory of another nation? If you want to be a Dutch nation state, what interest can you have in pulling Denmark in? That's where other people live!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u187	Mr. Chairman. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u188	I hear Mrs Leijten say: we are going to count. Exactly, that's the point. Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u189	Well, give Mr. Asscher a response. I see him looking like he heard it thunder in Cologne.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u190	I see you looking, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u191	Mr President, I think it is serious. It's all so far. Mr Baudet is now going to complain about the affected accent of an official. Good luck with that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u192	Mr. Asscher!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u193	But whatever's going on, we should certainly call that in this Chamber. It is that he is here proclaiming a theory that is not secret, but an open plan. He's turning the whole history of this continent around.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u194	Mr. Asscher!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u195	He says fascism had nothing to do with nationalism. All at your service, but stop proclaiming these extreme and radically right-wing theories to scare people. Just stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u196	There's nothing extreme about it. It is a simple explanation of the plans of the leading figures within the European Union. Anyone can read that themselves in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u197	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u198	... or find it in videos of Frans Timmermans and other people who argue for it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u199	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u200	No, Mr. Asscher. I see Mrs Leijten, I see Mr Omtzigt and I have already said to them that they are through their interruptions. And that goes for you, too. Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Yes, Mr Omtzigt may make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Baudet spoke of a European conspiracy. According to Van Dale, a conspiracy or conspiracy is a secret plan. He says it's a public plan. I would like to know from him what public plan he thinks the European Union is at the moment. Mr Schäuble is not a leading figure in the European Commission, the European Council or anywhere else. He is an important political figure in Germany. But he did not express the opinion of the German Government there. So I ask Mr Baudet: what does he think is the conspiracy, who put it into words and where did it happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u202	I thought I was saying a little bit in response to Asscher's interruption that I find the words "conspiracy" and "conspiracy" somewhat uncomfortable. 'Cause they're semantic. That's what I've been trying to bring to light here several times. Anyway! It's a plan. What's the point? What do they want? And you can find that in all the official documents, in all the vision documents of Macron, of other people. They say, "Where are we going? Towards a federal state of Europe." I call it Five Presidents' Report. We had that a few years ago. This is consistent. This isn't just a one-time bubbling of something. There is nothing less than the formation of a United States of Europe. That's what they want. With an army, a foreign policy, border control, a single currency, well, there is already European taxation, harmonisation of European private law. That's the idea. And all I'm saying is, let's vote on that for once. Is that what we want? Or do we just want to trade? It's possible. Then that's what we have to do. But let's stop playing hide-and-seek like this all the time. We're not in the process of developing a trading relationship. That is simply not what the European Union is. That's just not what people are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u203	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u204	In this version, which is not mine, just all the elements that Mr Asscher was objecting to at the moment have been omitted. Those were elements about incest, elements about race mixing. Does this mean that the latest version we received is the version you're referring to? Or was it the version I heard during Mr Asscher's interruption? As far as this latest version is concerned, I understand all sorts of things. I don't have to agree with that. But that earlier version gives me a feeling that's not very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u205	Yeah, listen, I'm all being put in the mouth that I didn't use on my own at all. I've been quoting people. Wolfgang Schäuble is a German politician, as you know. I quoted him. He spoke in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, a German newspaper, about "the need for continued immigration, otherwise leading to European incest." That's what he said. That is not something I have claimed; I have quoted someone. That really is a very fundamental difference. I myself believe that there may be all kinds of reasons for having or not having a particular migration policy, but I do not think that Mr Schäuble's arguments are one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u206	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u207	That is what Mr Schäuble said. His party and others have distanced themselves from that. That is never, at any time, by anyone in the Commission, the Council or anyone else to declare European politics. And that's the weird thing Mr Baudet just did here. He mentioned some extreme statements made to the left and right in Europe, she attributed them to the European Union and said: that is the goal of the European Union. Is what Mr Schäuble said there in any one document from the European Union or in one conspiracy you are thinking of or even one conspiracy ever made, or not? If not, then what Mr Baudet has just said is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u208	I am convinced that the idea of weakening nation-states through mass migration, through open borders, but also, for example, by the Committee of the Regions, which has the European Union and which actually strengthens all kinds of subnation-state identities, is an integral part of European ideology. The European ideology, therefore, of the EU, is that these nation states are an historic mistake and that these nation states lead to war. That is all very dangerous and you really shouldn't, so we have regions and we have Europe. That's what people believe. That is what we want to strengthen, because we also believe that the European Union is the first step towards a higher stage, namely world citizenship. That is why we do not want to seriously restrict this migration from totally different cultures. On the contrary: the European Union has actually turned out to be a kind of immigration machine and the European Union has constantly attracted more people to Europe through a shuttle service, because it is not believed at all that there is a structural problem with immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u209	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u210	Mr President, I asked a very simple question. I asked whether the ideology that Mr Baudet just mentioned was ever mentioned by the European Union, either in a public document or in a hidden document. Mr Baudet called it a European conspiracy, so it could also be done with secret documents. I didn't have one example. That's enough for me to say. That is the idea that Mr Baudet has, and may be, but everything Schäuble says immediately to the European Union is nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u211	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u212	And also those other quotes: that's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u213	Okay. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u214	I do not know what Mr Omtzig calls nonsense, but it seems to me that the European Union and its leaders have this conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u215	No, Mr Baudet, Mr Jetten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u216	It seems to me that everyone can see that clearly. That's the "wir purchase tie" mentality. Isn't that what we see all around us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u217	Mr Baudet just said that parties should not play hide-and-seek and that they should be honest about what plans they have with Europe. In recent months, I have had the opportunity to discuss Europe, the European Union and European cooperation with Mr Baudet on a regular basis. I conclude from this that Mr Baudet is playing hide-and-seek himself with all the fancy and expensive words, and that ultimately it comes down to saying that he wants out of the European Convention on Human Rights, that he wants out of the European Union, that he wants out of the euro and that he wants out of the World Trade Organisation Treaty. Why? Because Mr Baudet stands for a dominant white Europe where there is no place for people of different origin, another color or people who look at the world in a different way. Mr Baudet wants a Netherlands that fully meets his world view, and that is a very scary ideology.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u218	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u219	I would like to distance myself from this bizarre description by Mr Jetten from my point of view. We say time and time again that no one, on the basis of any descent or descent, is, in any way, less or could be excluded in the Netherlands or in Europe. We stand for the equal rights of all and equal opportunities for all, regardless of origin, colour, religion or whatever. I cannot say it often enough: I find it really so incredibly sad that apparently the only argument, or as a quasi-argument, as a reproach, can be put in these childish, kindergarten-like accusations, which are not based on anything. Everyone in the Netherlands who is a Dutch citizen and participates in our society has exactly the same rights, exactly the same duties and exactly the same opportunities as everyone else, and we make no distinction whatsoever, on any element of all those things that Jetten mentions. That will never change in our party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u220	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting until 10:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u221	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Not so many questions, but a lot of mutual debate. I'm going to try to answer the questions asked. I do not go into the questions of the Animal Party about the Green Deal, because I have not prepared for them and there will also be separate debates about them. I'll be clear about that right away. I just don't have all the knowledge I need right now. That's not gonna work for a while. What are we going to do if no agreement is reached? Well, I'm gonna make myself strong to reach an agreement. If it doesn't work, it won't work, and we're gonna have to move on later. Then there was the question: do I think an agreement will be reached? Yeah, I don't know. The contrasts are great. The interests are also great. The parties are very far apart. For me and for the cabinet, the final result counts and not the speed of the negotiations. I think that would be wise, otherwise it would cost money again. Then there's the cabinet move. It is actually exactly the Leijten/Bisschop motion, which says that we must work to ensure that the size remains at most the same. Well, that's exactly what we want. That is, by the way, with inflation and economic growth, for clarity. The fastest, the easiest route for this is the 1% combined with maintaining the current discount, of course plus inflation and growth, and the current collection fee for customs duties. It could be different, but this is actually the most convenient thing. The best way is through that 1%. Eventually, that's a route, an instrument. The goal is that the Dutch payment will ultimately remain the same. I always find it so powerless to talk about vetos. I am convinced, with the support of the Chamber, that we have a good story for the approach, so I do not want to speculate about such instruments. Then there are questions about taxes. There are no proposals for taxes. There is talk, also among Members of Parliament, of proposals with which the Netherlands has a lot of doubts and problems, but no objections to fundamental issues. It is then a question of whether, in addition to the GNI base, you can have other bases, but that does not result in blue envelopes. In fact, that was also Mr Van Dijck's question about plastic payments and that sort of thing and the ETS proposal. This makes the GNI base less important and adds other foundations. This in most cases leads to a somewhat lower payment for the Netherlands, but that is not so important at this point. We're still reluctant about that kind of thing. They're not taxes in Michel's negotiating box.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u223	I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can clarify what he means by not wanting to talk about a veto. His story would be strong enough. I do not understand why he cannot simply say: if this is the proposal that we are going to put to the vote on Thursday, then in any case I will not accept it. It's pretty easy to just say that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u224	Yeah, but I think that's so powerless. We have a coalition with quite a few other countries that don't want it either. Then if we start with a veto... Let's just see if we can do it without a veto. Actually, I think that's stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u225	No, that's fine. If you succeed without a veto, I think it's even more handsome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u226	And for the rest, they're like-dance questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u227	Sorry. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u228	If-then ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u229	The sequel is like-dan questions. What do you do if... Yeah, I can think of 30 variants, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u230	I don't. One is very clear. Life consists of like-dan questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u231	Let me put it this way. If the proposal is put to the vote as it stands, then we are not going to do so. But that's not going to happen, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u232	We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u233	Of course, that proposal that is now before us is never going to happen. There is so much objection from so many countries. It's not gonna be. But for the Netherlands, it has to change a lot. We do not want an increase in our payments. This proposal and everything that comes near it will lead to a very substantial increase in our payments, and that is not what we want. But you are now asking for an instrument that you have in a meeting, that veto instrument. I never find it so strong to speculate on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u234	In fact, Mr Rutte says to us as a Chamber that this will not be necessary, but that he has actually already heard it probably in the corridors or in such a way that this is not going to be it anyway. You're confident...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u235	There is a considerable gap between the proposal that is now before us and what we want. In between you have all kinds of moments when you can say: I still don't like it. It is not the case that the present proposal, with a small mint, suddenly fits into the Bishop/Leijten motion. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u236	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u237	The Prime Minister is beginning to respond very quickly. He said once again that the goal is that the payment stays the same. Now there was another goal, namely that the budget will look different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u238	Yeah, I'll talk about that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u239	Oh, you're gonna get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u240	Sure. Absolutely. For all the clarity... Did Mrs Leijten want to ask a question about the piece so far? No. For all clarity, there are great interests for the Netherlands in the game. Firstly, this is the prevention of the increase in payments and, secondly, modernisation. I shall now come to that, because a number of questions have been asked. This modernisation is also very essential for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u241	Mrs. Leijten. Or did you have another question, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u242	The Prime Minister is going to answer a number of questions about this, and it has indeed been two months since we had the same debate. But the main line of what you read and hear everywhere and all the analyses you see is that there may be an exchange between the size of the budget and the modernisation or otherwise of the budget. Such an exchange would be one of the real possibilities. Then this Prime Minister will also face the question of whether he would pay more for a more modern budget. Several people have talked about this from different angles, but I think it would be good for the debate if the Prime Minister could take this issue up. Last time, he didn't really want to. And then he said, "We both have goals." But we've been two months and we're all reading newspapers. We all know how the flag hangs. It may be very difficult to achieve both of these goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u243	Yes, but I would like to quote part of Mr Jetten's speech which I liked more than some other parts. He was right to point out that the current negotiating proposal has been modernised. There is quite a shift from old to new, a strong reflection of new priorities. It contains conditionality, for example the rule of law. It is therefore not the case that either increase in payments or modernisation is not taking place. It's not just a matter of more budget. It's about quality. It is about the added value of expenditure. I will do my best to strengthen and at least maintain this modernisation where it can be done. We'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u244	Please continue. You had another question, didn't you, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u245	I have no doubt that the Prime Minister is committed to this, but he may have to pay a price for it. Sometimes in negotiations, you don't get 100% what you want, but maybe 70%. Then it might be that the Prime Minister would have to accept a slightly higher contribution for the Netherlands. I also understand that it is difficult for him to give that away before he goes to Brussels, but it could be so. Then I think that, as a Chamber, we can still ask the Prime Minister if he would be prepared to do so if he could get more modernisation back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u246	That would be contrary to a ruling in the Chamber, so of course that is not possible. That's the Leijten/Bishop motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u247	So the answer is no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u248	I believe that it fits within the current framework, including the government agreement and also our pass-through, that we say: we are prepared to include inflation and economic growth in the contribution to the European Union. But we don't really want to move on, no. I don't think you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u249	New taxes are part of all kinds of plans that are now included in the European Commission's work programme. So far, we have always followed the line from the Chamber, but also from the government, that we have decided by unanimity. The Secretary of State said this afternoon in the Chamber: in future I will start by unanimity and then I will see where it ends. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that we begin by unanimity and that it ends there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u250	There is a Maeijer motion from the PVV, and that motion is, of course, a point of reference for us. That was mentioned again in the letter that File Letter sent today. We are also waiting for the Commission's proposals. That's what it says in the BNC sheet you had.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u251	Sure, but there is a little light with what is said in it about that adopted motion of the PVV leading. It states that, as far as we are concerned, it is impossible to do so by majority decision-making. The Secretary of State says here: no, we start by unanimity and then we see where we come from. I would like to agree with the Prime Minister that we start by unanimity and that we end there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u252	There's a Maeijer motion. That's what we're basing ourselves on. The motion says: you should not give up unanimity on tax matters. It was adopted by a majority. There will be Commission proposals on all kinds of issues in the near future. We shall, of course, look at them in the light of that motion. Yeah, what else can you say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u253	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u254	Then there is Mrs Van der Graaf's question and also Mr Van Ojik's question about the second pillar of agriculture or, in fact, pillar 2 and sustainability. We must, of course, look very carefully at how we can also give the greening and sustainability a place there. The fact is that after this adoption of the entire seven-year budget, the Commission will issue regulations. Then there will also have to be that clarity, so that is not going to happen now. I believe that we agree here on what we want to achieve with each other, but that will not be the issue at this summit, is my expectation. Then there is the rule-of-law proposal and conditionality on that point. I think it's quite possible with what's now lying around. I have to say that it is a weakening of the proposal that was in the Finnish box earlier, but it is still possible. We can get rid of this, because it can still address shortcomings when they have a potentially negative impact on the financial interests of the European Union. That's actually the most important thing. We will continue to be strongly committed to a strong and effective rule of law. We will also try to get it back to the level of the proposal. I think that is also in the spirit of what Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Jetten said about it, namely that it goes back to the level of the original negotiating box. Of course, I can't guarantee it's gonna work. I must say, however, that what is now written should not weaken further. With this design it just remains possible to deal with it, but it would be nice if you could sharpen the weather to what it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u255	I think the second is true and the first isn't. What is now lying is very similar to the Article 7 procedure and can therefore very easily be sabotaged and trained by a limited number of Member States. I understand that the Prime Minister says that he cannot guarantee success, but can he not just be clear: what lies here is insufficient; this must be much stronger, because the rule of law is in danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u256	We're making another valuation. I think that what is now there really goes beyond the Article 7 procedure, even now that it has been amended. But I agree with Asscher. I thought the original proposal was better and I do not understand why it has been watered down in this negotiating box. I agree with him. We are going to do our best to get that back to the level of the previous negotiating box.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u257	I'm glad. I should also like to point out that the Prime Minister does not simply agree with something that is below that level. Ultimately, this is very important, also in order to tackle corruption, also in order to protect the rule of law in the future, in those seven years. I heard him right and I'm positive about his approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u258	We're going to make a serious effort to do that, but I have no guarantee. Then there is the question of protection... This is actually the same point that Mr Asscher made in his speech. A separate question was put to me, but I think it has been answered. Then there is the EIB's proposal for an increase in capital. In my opinion, this has nothing to do with the negotiations on a multiannual financial framework, because the EIB is not a Community one. That is completely out of the question here, but it is suddenly also in these negotiating proposals. I hear very well what Mr Omtzigt says about the risk of rising guarantees. We are not at all enthusiastic about such proposals, also because they are actually out of order. But we will have to look at them in the light of the total of the guarantees. There are also review frameworks. I heard him very well about that and I share that concern. Mrs Van der Graaf asked a question about the cofinancing of projects. She said there's a lot of money left on the shelf. She's right to say that. This is, of course, partly because there is a delay between the time when money is promised and committed, and the time when the money is actually spent. These are often multi-annual investment projects, which can also be different for a few years. And in most cases it is all spent in the end. That 70% of the Budget Instrument for Convergence and Competitiveness, which Mr Omtzigt referred to, is in the term sheet that was adopted unanimously in the euro group. So, for the Netherlands, it simply remains the guideline for the further development of that thing. The fact that this passage has now fallen out of the box does not frighten us, because this has simply been adopted unanimously in the Eurogroup by the Finance Ministers. So that remains for us the only guideline on which we assess the further development of that BICC. Mr Bishop spoke about external convergence. I agree with him. We will move forward with like-minded Member States in the negotiations to cover Dutch interests in the best possible way. Several non-papers have also been submitted. I see Mrs. Van der Graaf wants to ask a question, so I'm gonna stop now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u259	Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u260	I will come back to the cohesion funds. The Prime Minister quickly went over the cause of the money remaining on the shelf. It's 280 billion. That's not nothing. Less than 30% of what is in the budget is simply spent. It is money that was intended for these cohesion funds. Seven years ago, that was exactly the same thing. So why does that budget have to be so high? I'd like to hear the commitment of this cabinet. How will these funds be reformed so that the money can be spent more quickly and better? On that point, does the cabinet accept the suggestion of the European Court of Auditors that you should perhaps go to another system? In doing so, you no longer simply allocate money to Member States, where you say: look for a project. In doing so, you may need to increase competition between countries in order to achieve good projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u261	Yes. And maybe there should just be less money going to rich countries, where the budget goes down as well. Because "pumping around" is of course what happens to that money that goes to Groningen. I thought Mrs Leijten was referring to that. First you transfer the money and then it comes back. Why do we have to get money out of those jars? Of course, we remain interested in this because those pots remain so large, but you would prefer to make the pots much smaller and only spend the money very focused. Thus, you could spend a lot more money on modernisation, such as innovation and development. The Netherlands is getting a lot out of that. That would be much more attractive. But that's not gonna happen. What's roughly the distribution? A third goes to agriculture, a third goes to cohesion and structural funds and a third to the rest. That's just the distribution of the last seven years. That's why I'm not jumping to spend more money. I do not think that most people here are jumping to do so, because there you do not see that modernisation getting through. That modernisation is there and takes place; it's in the pieces, we're going to mainstream on green and you name it. But in the core, it's still a third, a third, a third. That hasn't changed. Nor does the underlying logic of these structural and cohesion funds change. The fact is that with that delay in the past those pots have become empty all the time. It can also be explained that it takes some time, because of course they have to find this co-financing. The simpler we can make that, the better, if it's up to me. It helps if you can prevent a circular pumping machinery towards the richer countries. That would really help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u262	Mr Tony van Dijck wants to ask a question. No, Mrs. Van der Graaf would like to respond to what the Prime Minister just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u263	Yeah, I can see her having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u264	I just want to know what the cabinet's commitment is now in this area and at this summit. The budget after budget is actually going the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u265	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u266	If the system does not really change, the same thing will happen again. The European Court of Auditors also warns about this. We want to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u267	Our commitment is always that we want to reform it. I think Stef Blok brought that up at the RAZ yesterday. But I also estimate that it will be complicated to get it back to the rule of law at the level of the previous negative box. And I'm guessing it's gonna be a hell of a job to change these cohesion funds, because in doing so, you just have a lot of countries against you that are all staring at these pots. So that's just gonna be really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u268	It is, of course, not so smart to say that we would like to get a little less out of these cohesion funds, because that is also what the proposals say. The Cohesion Fund remains the same. Only less goes to the rich countries and more to the poorer countries. So we've already lost that billion. But that wasn't my question. My question was about the new own resources. The Prime Minister is flying over it, under the motto that they are not blue envelopes and not taxes and therefore it is not interesting. But it's money. There is no record of such a plastic tax or such skimming of ETS revenues for the European Union or what that could mean for a country like the Netherlands. And is it actually cut off on our lump sum payments or is that going to be on top of it? Because there is also a clause that it is not intended to have too much impact on actual national payments. Can the Prime Minister zoom in on that, or does he not know enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u269	We don't know exactly what they want. I have a hunch. Look, we say we're not excited about that kind of other payment bases, but we're not mordicus against them either. We've talked to the Chamber about that before. Whether you use the GNI key or one of those plastic keys or an ETS key, there is quite a reason for that. In most cases, it can also be slightly more favourable for the Netherlands than the GNI key, because we often do a little better on these points. Then the percentage you're paying is slightly lower than it is now. So that often still has a small financial advantage. But it depends very much on the design. With that plastic, it's not that hard, because that's going to come out after seven years. That is, of course, also the purpose of such a means of its own, such a different basis. However, in the case of ETS, this is completely unclear. With the proposal as it stands, it is extremely dimensional and seems impossible to me. Anyway, we'll just have to see. Many other countries also have serious objections to it. It is certainly not the case that the Netherlands is alone in this. But it is not a hard no, because yes, in addition to the GNI base you create one or two other foundations. It has no effect on the citizen. I mean, there's no blue envelope going to our home or Holland. You only have another title on which you pay a payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u270	But it has to be paid and eventually it will be on the citizens' plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u271	No, because it'll go off the GNI key in our model. If it comes on top of the GNI key, of course we're not going to do it. It should be under the ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u272	Then I'm gonna have to read that phrase right again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u273	No, what it says right now isn't right. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u274	Oh, okay. But something else: does the Prime Minister see with me the danger of assigning such a means to the European Union? One's own means can be abused. Next time you need money, you're gonna turn on that button, as happens with the perception cost. That went from 30 to 20, now it says 12.5 and it's gonna be zero. That is, of course, the danger of own resources. Can the Prime Minister distance himself from the pupping taxes every time, such as the flight tax, the Googletaks, the financial transaction tax, the CCCTB and the CO border tax? These are all European taxes, of which the Chamber has said, by way of a motion from my hand, that we are not served by them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u275	There are no taxes in this package of proposals. They're not in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u276	But they're called and they come back every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u277	Yeah, but not in the context of this MFF. We can always say hi to the grassroots and say what we think about those taxes, but we know that. We often agree on that. So that's not the point. In any case, we already have your party colleague's motion on unanimity. So in that respect, we've seared it all over the place. But that's not the issue here. This isn't tax. This is another key, another base. But then, of course, it comes from your GNI contribution. You're not gonna do it on top of it. No, we're definitely not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u278	These negotiations began with a proposal from the European Commission. Then came the compromise proposal of the Finnish Presidency and now the negotiating box of Charles Michel. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows. Does he think that the MFF as it stands has improved or deteriorated in substance since the start of negotiations on the European Commission's proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u279	There has been a slight increase in expenditure compared to the Finnish box. I don't like that. There are also some other deteriorations, for example on the point of rule of law. We were just having a little discussion: can we just do this or do you really have to go back to the last one? At least we're gonna do our best to get back to the last one. On balance, there are a number of deteriorations. Also a few minimal improvements. I do not think that these two basic broadenings, apart from the GNI key, are happy, but we are not terribly opposed either. I think that plastic tax is the easiest thing to understand, because it also runs away, but if you do that ETS, you have to design it very precisely. Otherwise, of course, that will be a camel's nose. It is now very over-designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u280	Once with the Prime Minister, the rule of law has been watered down. Once again, direct funding with a different basis can help to get out of it. But my question is whether it has gone forward or backwards in substance. Let me just look at the differences between the Commission's proposal and Michel's current proposal: -10% on funds for research and innovation, 29% on funds for migration and border surveillance and -42% on security and defence. Then I'll come back to my warning. If we look blindly at the size of the budget or the Dutch contribution, we can count our blessings on every euro that comes from it, but every euro that has gone from it so far has been at the expense of Dutch priorities, namely climate, knowledge and security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u281	We're gonna have to focus on that. That's right. At the same time, I also agreed with Jetten that it is not just a question of: more money is more modernisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u282	But does the Prime Minister agree with me that we are also running the risk that at the end of this journey we did not bring in the 1% and not the modernisation of the budget and thus did not really serve any Dutch interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u283	That 1% is an instrument for achieving the goal and the goal is not an increase in payments. That's just a chamber motion. In addition, it is very important for the Netherlands to modernise this budget. So that's what we're betting on. That's what we're trying to do. But listen. Just for a second. This is a budget with the following features. We got Brexit. The Netherlands is quite affected by this. The refugee crisis in 2015, the Syrian refugee flow, has hit Sweden, the Germans and us to an excessive extent. Those are two things that are bothering us financially. With Brexit, this is also just a post that costs money through the trade position and the flow of refugees. Now you have a fact that this budget is still roughly the same between the three major chunks: cohesion, agriculture and the rest. That is why I really understand the motion that the Chamber has adopted and which is asking: just limit it to the previous amount plus inflation and growth. We are already one of the net contributors, just as dependent on whether Germany is even worse than we are. We're both out of the chart. So you can say 'I'm throwing a lot of extra money at it and then I might be able to get something out of it', but as many here have said in the end, for us, the most important thing in the European Union is not the budget. The most important thing is membership. This brings with it two things: it is embedded for our security in a strong international structure and trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u284	May I conclude, then, that the Prime Minister says the following? I guard that, as a net contributor, we are not getting any slacker in these proportions, but that 1% is not a sacred figure for me if I can finally draw a modernised budget from those negotiations, paying attention to the priorities of the Netherlands. Then I look at the contribution that the Netherlands is making to this and I also want, in the end, a European Union budget capable of doing good things in terms of climate, knowledge and security over the next six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u285	I don't think so. First of all, that 1% is an instrument for achieving the goal, and that objective is not an increase in payments. That's just a chamber motion. Two. Yes, my goal is also modernisation. I don't think those two have to bite each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u286	I have an informative question to ask the Prime Minister, because this is a repeat of the debate two months ago. Let me say it carefully: one of the coalition parties is dissatisfied with the cabinet's strategy. Two months ago, the Prime Minister replied: I would like to await the coalition party's proposals in the group chairmen' discussions for the change of the coalition agreement. Is there, perhaps, in the last two months in that consultation, a case in point, because he is not the chairman of a political group in the cabinet in any way on the basis of a progressive understanding or a proposal from one of the four parties to talk about an adjustment of the Dutch strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u287	One. That is, of course, the confidence of the coalition talks. You know nothing ever leaks out of that meeting. Two. I made that statement at the time, of course, Mr Asscher did so very cleverly in that debate, in response to comments made by the D66 spokesperson, that that remark on the coalition agreement was not the smartest one in that debate either. But whether or not it happened in the coalition after that is confidential anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u288	I understand the confidentiality of the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u289	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u290	But it's kind of weird. We had a debate on 10 December, which repeats itself in similar terms this evening. The Prime Minister's reply at the time was: I await the coalition talks for proposals to change the coalition agreement. I don't think it's weird to ask two months later if any of that happened. Then the Prime Minister says: that's confidential. That makes the debate weird, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u291	It's both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u292	So, two months ago, the Prime Minister's argument towards at least the D66 Group is now suddenly confidential. I cannot now know whether that has led to any action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u293	Both statements by Mr Van Ojik are true. They can also exist side by side. For my part, it was a rather unpowerful reaction to a fine debate between Mr Asscher and Mr Verhoeven, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u294	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u295	Then there is the pension gap at the European Parliament. I am aware of the reports on shortcomings in the coverage of the European Parliament's pension system. Of course, it is mainly and really only up to the EP to solve this itself. They are responsible for the sustainability of their pension scheme. As a cabinet of the European Parliament's leadership, we expect a serious approach to this problem. In general, we are committed to reducing and modernising working conditions in the EU institutions and also in other international organisations. This must, of course, be in line with the public nature of the institution and the sector in which it operates. The same applies to pensions. With regard to expenditure on personnel costs within this document, the Multiannual Financial Framework, the Netherlands believes that such expenditure should be reviewed critically and that savings are necessary and possible in the context of Brexit. So the tricky thing is that I agree with Mr Omtzigt, but now I do not have the instrument to intervene hard, because that is what the European Parliament itself is primarily about. Then there is Mr Van Ojik's question as to what is needed to compete with China and other countries. This budget is not going to help us very much, but it is going to help us a little bit. The most important thing we need to do is to make sure that this is a part of the world where values and economic growth go hand in hand. For me too, the European Union is. It is a community of values, but also a community in which we make a lot of money together, with a strong currency and a strong market. The fact that we are embedded in that cooperation also offers us security. I think that's the best guarantee of winning it from everyone in the world. Right now, we are already the most powerful and largest trading bloc in world history. The European Union's accumulated economy is just as large and in most states it is even larger than that of the United States. If China and the U.S. are fighting each other, then it's the second place anyway. We're in first place. This budget will, of course, help. I agree with that, but it is not the case that this budget is now a vital key to winning the battle with China. That's really gotta come from other things. Then there was the question about the Turkey deal. It's true that we need to see how that goes. It's important that that deal stays there. This will also lead to discussion later this year. We really don't know what these negotiations are going to offer. My expectation is that there will be room and flexibility in this budget. But it is complicated to assess exactly what proposals are in the pipeline. So far, it's been two times three billion. Of course, we don't know what we need now either. In part, it will also depend on the embedding of Syrian populations in Turkish society. At some point that is also mainstreamed there, I'll just say homely, and then maybe there isn't that much money involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u296	I am not talking about amounts either, but I think it is real to ask the Prime Minister to commit himself to a decent extension of the European Union's contribution to reception in the region. There is a humanitarian imperative. We have an interest in not getting people there any deeper into the misery. There is also an interest in managing migration. Both interests benefit from the fact that, of course, you face the disadvantages of the Turkey deal, that you defend the rule of law there, that you support the opposition and that money goes directly to municipalities and refugees. But it is important that the Netherlands is committed to this, because it is happening very quickly now. With that commitment, and then it's not about amounts, the cabinet can get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u297	Absolutely. The answer is yes. I couldn't agree more. I have two further questions, both from Mr Omtzigt. One is: what could you possibly do to find out why people sometimes turn away from the European Union, especially in the British situation? When I heard that question, I thought, "Oh, how are we supposed to do that?" I did dig in anyway, 'cause I get the question. Last year, the cabinet... Firstly, a lot of research is being done on the way Dutch people look at Europe; let me start with that. This is also part of the Research Citizen's Perspectives of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. In addition, an additional study was requested last year for the SCP in the context of the so-called citizen consultation on Europe. The Verwey-Jonker Institute has also done a research. A conference on the future of Europe is now under way. The Netherlands insists that parliaments, but also just the people in the country, Hans Wiegel would say, be involved. Perhaps I would prefer to answer Mr Omtzigt's question in the light of a letter about that conference which Mr Blok sent on Friday and which will undoubtedly lead to a debate with the Chamber. It has stated that we will also involve people in this discussion in the context of that conference, and that this will be part of getting more clearly where it is. And otherwise we'll just have to call Maurice the Dog, but I'll see if this is an answer Mr Omtzigt likes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u298	No. I understand the search, but this is not exactly what I meant. I meant that the European Union, and especially the leaders in Brussels, all of them pointed out to the British and said: it is up to them; if the British Government had explained it better, they would not have left it. I think it's deeper. That can't be taken with a poll or anything like that. There is something there about removing citizens from goals that we understand here in the rest of Europe. Sometimes that happens because of stupid things, such as the move to Strasbourg or the collapse of pension funds; we all know them. But it also happens because there is a relatively large distance between the Union and the citizens themselves. We all have these very good polls, where we only look at whether everyone likes the Union, but there is no deeper consideration: is the Union working for the citizens? Is she attractive? How do we keep her attractive? And what have the institutions of the European Union itself done wrong to bring about this Brexit? You can learn from that, so that the Union remains attractive. The intention is that it remains attractive. The intention is not to prevent an exit from another country. The Union should be attractive to all 27 Member States. That question needs to be put somewhere externally. That's not a simple poll. That could be an investigation at a university. Then we are talking about people who are not 100% Eurosceptical, like the fellow Member in the back, and are not 100% europhile, like other colleagues I looked carefully aside but I would like to take a quiet look at that. 'Cause I really can see that that question wasn't asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u299	Okay. Well, I guess I'll just chew it. When are we coming with the State of the Union? That's the next few months, isn't it? He'll be in the cabinet soon. Let me see, because I honestly just don't have an answer right now. If I look purely at the Dutch debate, but that's n=1; that's my observation, then my thinking is that it's about the shift from "the Union is market and currency" to "the Union is market and currency and a community of values, but also protection, because you're embedded in a strong structure in an uncertain world." I myself noticed in my discussions in halls and with people that this gave the debate much more depth. People said: yes, that market and currency I understand here; I understand that for a smaller country like the Netherlands, the Netherlands is of course still quite large, but not as big as Germany or France... is extremely useful to be embedded in a strong structure in an uncertain world. That's what people here understand, in their gutters. But that's n=1; that's me. So let me see whether we can say a little more about this in the context of either the State of the Union itself or in the debate on the State of the Union. I just need to think about that. I don't have that ready right now. But I understand the question now. He's not crazy either, honestly. It's pretty real.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u300	I'm glad to hear I'm not completely crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u301	No, I didn't say you weren't crazy. The question wasn't crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u302	I would appreciate it if, in the letter on the state of the Union, not in the debate itself, the government could think about a proposal to really take a closer look at it. You don't have to do that today. I really get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u303	Shall we? Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u304	I did not ask questions about this to the Prime Minister, but I just had a first term with Minister Blok on next week's General Affairs Council. At that time, we also discussed the conference. As far as that blow goes deeper and the other feelings are concerned, when does the feeling that the European Union is there for all of us remove itself from people? I would like to draw your attention to a very interesting report by the Scientific Council for Government Policy: European variations. That was also in connection with the Brexit and the discussion on how to proceed. I think you should see how to deepen that. For example, they insisted that you should have a much more flexible Union, not that one size for all countries. The cabinet has once responded to that, but perhaps one more reflection can be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u305	I'm gonna improvise for a second. I'm gonna see everyone shivering now, and this is definitely not a commitment or a decision, but we're gonna look at it. Hearing Mrs Leijten's suggestion, may be a variant that we ask the WRR to update that piece again. I think it's a year old. Perhaps we could ask that, against the background of this piece of the debate in the House of Representatives between me and Omtzigt and against the background of what has happened in Great Britain, we look at whether there is a floor to give up. And we can react to that. Perhaps that is a very nice one; better than that the cabinet itself will try to answer Omtzigt's question with a lot of prose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u306	Two cases were then taken out when it came to the support of the population. One was the euro and the other labour migration. It is perhaps interesting to see now what the internal market is doing in the hearts, minds and abdomen of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u307	For me it would be the following: the internal market, the fact that we are also a value community and the fact that we need to work together in an uncertain world. Maybe it is my feeling too positive again, but as the debate in the Netherlands is shifting from just market and currency to the idea that it is also necessary for our security, not as in NATO, but as in "you are not only in this world" people say that it is true, that it is very nice that this Union is there and that we are not alone in these cold times. Anyway, we can all get that involved in one of those floors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u308	The Prime Minister is making commitments for research, so I would like to add something to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u309	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u310	The European Union has been working over the past decades to create a European identity. We have the same passports and the same license plates. There are European professors and Erasmus programmes to make people travel. There is also discussion about the European flag. In fact, we do not have a European flag, because it is a flag with the logo of the European Union, because we have taken it out of the Constitution ourselves. And there is discussion about a European national anthem. It would be good to analyse what the European Union has done to create the European and to see that it has not succeeded. It always turns out that someone first feels Spaniard and then European, first Dutch and then European, first Pole and then European. So let's take a look at that, too. Let us also look at European values. Why aren't Dutch people so supportive? Perhaps because they see that other countries have different values in terms of the rule of law or homosexuality, for example in Hungary. Then you don't want to pay for those countries. So let's do that analysis. Then we'll have a really deep discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u311	It's gonna be a great story. I'm just looking. I recognize what Mr Mulder is saying. As far as I am concerned, too, the European Union is not a national state. For me, it is a very pragmatic cooperation that is very in the interest of the Netherlands. My pride is with The Hague and the Netherlands, but not with the European Union. What I am proud of are the history of the continent and our culture and values. But the European Union is a body. I don't know if you can be proud of that. It's imperative that it's there. I do not think that creating a European citizen was a very heavily supported project by the Netherlands. I see just a Dutch flag behind the President, and I do not see the European logo on a blue canvas hanging next to it. On the other hand, in France, of course, you always see the French flag with the European flag draped through it. But when the French talk about a bigger Europe, you know they mean a French Europe. So everyone has their own ideas. I don't know if we can do all that now in an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u312	Can the Prime Minister promise that he will at least see if he can? Because that's what we think is fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u313	Yeah, we're gonna check that out. I say it now, as the President normally says in the regulation. This whole stenographic report we send to the WRR and we say: make this chocolate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u314	The Prime Minister just said he wasn't going to answer some of my questions, but now it turns out he wasn't. However, I would like to ask him again about the relationship between the peasant protests, the talks that the Prime Minister is having with farmers about the nitrogen crisis, and the justified point of the farmers that, if they have to change from the Dutch cabinet, they do not want the Dutch cabinet to support the European Commission if it opens the doors at the borders to doors produced under much lower standards. I simply asked: did the Prime Minister have that conversation with those farmers? Did he say anything fair about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u315	No, we never talked about that in those conversations. Apart from that, it goes a long way, because this debate was about the MFF and not about my conversation with farmers, CETA and treaties, no matter how interesting that subject is. We could, of course, ask Mr Asscher again about this, but I do not think that we should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u316	It is a bit annoying that the cabinet always does not want to talk about these free trade agreements until a few years later. Then it says to the Chamber: now we can't say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u317	We just talked about it for two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u318	That's the game. I asked because the provisional appreciation of the cabinet on the Green Deal is on the agenda tonight. If Europe is going to make good decoration with climate action and make a deal with Bolsonaro's Brazil, then the Animal Party has questions about this. I also have a question about the MFK. With the EUR 365 billion for agricultural subsidies, I have said so in my term of office, the European Commission is financing the Dutch nitrogen crisis. And then the Dutch taxpayer will have to cough up money again to buy those farmers out again? Will the Prime Minister act congruently, including at the European summit? Is he going to say that these agricultural subsidies will only be justified if we use them in the coming years for the much-needed conversion that agriculture needs and to help farmers move to a sustainable agriculture in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u319	We want low-emission agriculture. This is often circular farming. This is very often circular agriculture, but it can also be low in other ways. This was not the debate that we are about to have in detail here. As I said, the whole CAP must be worked out immediately. That's what proposals are going to be made. These will undoubtedly also be discussed here between the Minister of LNV and the Chamber. In drawing up the regulations, for example, we are talking about the CAP. That comes back a lot. The cabinet believes that the debates on the combination of circular agriculture and low-emission agriculture and on the link between them and how to stimulate them in the light of the nitrogen problem are very essential. We have, of course, had these debates with the farmers' organisations. But as far as I can remember, we didn't specifically talk to them about CETA or Bolsonaro.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u320	I think the Prime Minister would be wise to take that with him. Because the cabinet is asking Dutch agriculture to reform, and rightly so. But then you cannot say at the external borders of Europe: come here with your puffy chicken so that the Dutch farmers can compete away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u321	Maybe one more sentence related to CETA: 2 million of our jobs we have through export. 2 million. We are, in absolute terms, the most exporting country in the whole world. Canada is run by a government more left-wing than Jesse Klaver. And then you can't make a free trade agreement with that. I don't understand this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u322	We are not going to repeat the debate on CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u323	No, I agree, Mr. Chairman. My questions were specifically about Mercosur and the agreement with Thailand that is still on the agenda. Today, the cabinet has had its way with CETA. I think that's very sad, but it's no different. But there are far worse treaties at the door. If the same game is being played there as we saw at CETA, then we can't talk about it for years. But then when it's in the Chamber, the story is, if we say no now, we're gonna muddy up. I really think that this should be the honour of the Prime Minister and that he should rather look at the consequences of that kind of treaties on Dutch agriculture which he says he wants to reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u324	Yes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, perhaps, Mr Omtzigt's question about European funding for journalistic expressions. In general, I have no further knowledge of this. Of course, I read that in the media in the Netherlands there was a question of a grant of €25,000 to a podcast, for making a series of podcasts on European themes. I think I've seen that happen these last few days. The editorial board has complete editorial freedom. So that's what we've been able to check out. But more generally on how the Commission deals with this type of subsidy... What I could do is to include something about this in the report of this European Council, such as: there is still an open question from the debate. But I have to figure this out, I just don't know. I just know that we've been looking into the podcast series for a while, and that includes complete editorial freedom. For example, next Sunday, MPs Mulder and Sneller will be speaking in this podcast about the Dutch vision of Europe. And my expectation is that this will lead to different views on the European budget. Or has this even been broadcast? Okay. See, that's even prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u325	This subsidy to that podcast fits in with an attempt by the European Commission to create a European identity. If we talk enough about the European Union, it will become inevitable, just like with those passports and those plates. And that's where the point is. Take Euronews, for example, that TV programme: EUR 15 million per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u326	Ah... But no one's looking at that, it's untraceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u327	No, but that's even worse. That's why I'm saying it doesn't pay off. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u328	I've been passing through there. Then all you see is those video connections you can't follow. That's horrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u329	So it is the European Commission that pays a lot of money to create identity. And that identity, it turns out, nobody's looking for it. Waste of money. That's what this discussion is about. Stop doing that, because Europe's borders are coming into sight, and it is time for the European Commission to realize that. And that podcast fits into that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u330	Okay, but I think Mr Omtzigt's question was something else, namely: are there certain rules in the Commission for how that money is spent from journalistic freedom? I now understand the side road Mr Mulder is taking. We'll send that along with the shorthand report to the WRR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u331	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Mulder made a very clear point. I'm not interested in an individual podcast being made here. It's about how you make sure there's an independent thing in a political organization that pays to make news about itself. And then Euronews might be a much better example, where this is quite something. Because the Dutch government doesn't have its own camera crew who then transmits on their own TV station. Yeah, I'm from Malta, and I've seen some really nice examples of how to do that, but not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u332	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u333	And it's all about me, and that was my question: if you give subsidies for that, how do you make sure you don't talk about the content yourself? That's probably not gonna happen at all, but I'd like to see that guarantee sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u334	Yes, but to that is my commitment that we include in the European Council report that there was one more open question from the debate. This has nothing to do with the European Council, but then we try to answer that question. I just need to figure it out, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u335	Mr. Chairman. Here too, before we come to the flat conclusion that any subsidy to make news or podcasts about Europe is directly for the propaganda machine of the European Commission. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that, given the enormous interests that are at stake in Europe, it is also of added value that there are media who pay attention to issues that play at European level, so that the Dutch citizen can also be informed about the discussions that are taking place at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u336	I find this complicated, to be honest. I am afraid that I am more inclined towards the views of Omtzigt and Mulder. But we're not going over it. The Commission is doing this, and we are going to find out what is happening. But in the Netherlands, we would also find it complicated that Parliament would say: we are giving money to a transmitter to provide more broadcasts from the Dutch Parliament. I don't know if we'd all be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u337	But this is a very serious point. As a Dutch government, we subsidise Dutch public service broadcasting, which has been commissioned, among other things, to bring news, informative programmes, in order to inform the Dutch people about what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u338	Yeah, yeah, but that's totally independent, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u339	But also for this, for the podcast we are talking about, it works purely and completely independently. There is no question at all of anyone in Brussels checking what makes the editors of reliable sources of podcasts. The fundamental question is whether the Prime Minister agrees with me that it can indeed serve a purpose to subsidise the media in order to create news and background news about what is going on at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u340	No, I find that uncomfortable. I say this as a liberal, and that is not a cabinet position. I don't know if we're going over it either. We are going to find out the question of Omtzigt and answer it in the next report. But just before the debate: I find it uncomfortable. Look, I don't find it uncomfortable that you give money from the government to make sure that there is good journalism in general, but very general. But if it's given for specifically a podcast about your organ, it's gonna be uncomfortable for me, but that's a private concept. So that is not a cabinet view, because I do not think we are going to go over it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u341	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u342	This podcast series or other podcasts are not about an organ but about what is going on at European level and how we can inform Dutch citizens about it. Just in another debate of interruption, we noticed here that the Prime Minister is okay with doing more research into what is going on among the Dutch regarding the European Union, what they know about it and how they look at it, and then five minutes later we have to observe that it is said: no, we should not give the media the space to report on Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u343	I'm not saying that. That's the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u344	How do we ever get good information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u345	We give money to public service broadcasting in the Netherlands. We do not say to the NIS: that means that you also have to make programmes about parliament or about that great government? Please don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u346	About politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u347	Neither is politics. If tomorrow the NIS chooses never to report on politics again, we will have another debate on it, but we Liberals want this journalism to be as free as possible and to give it as little guidance as possible. Anyway, we're gonna figure it out and we're gonna deal with Omtzigt's questions in the report, but this has something uncomfortable for me somewhere, but that's really a private idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u348	I'd like to take stock of the situation. We are discussing seven years of the EU budget. D66 says: grocery mentality, obstinate, unwise, it's not gonna work. Do I put together the Prime Minister's reaction that he says: buoys, coalition agreement, motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u349	No, the situation is that D66 is right to draw attention to the modernisation of the budget, which I also support, but that we have a difference of opinion as to whether this modernisation is being promoted by spending much more on Europe. That is a difference of opinion. In that case, the guideline for the cabinet is the coalition agreement and the chamber's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u350	But are you going to change your strategy now after Mr Jetten's speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u351	Mr Jetten's speech invites me to do more to shape this modernisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u352	What we've seen here is classic Ruttian. And that is: as long as she does not repeat the insufficient of Verhoeven because that was just a little too much, D66 can kefken. The Prime Minister is sticking to his strategy, i.e. everything for the 1%. And the modernisation, the rule of law, the refugees, the better economy and research can suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u353	I leave this conclusion entirely to Mr Asscher. I think he's too short on many points, but I respect him, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u354	I would like to return to the Prime Minister's undertaking to Mr Omtzig that he will come back to the issue of journalistic independence and sponsorship from the European Commission. Would he take it that there was an extra budget at the House of Europe, the Dutch branch of the European Commission, to buy media content in the Netherlands during the European elections? That's what happened with the Dragonfly and the Spell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u355	The Spell? I think it'll be okay. I'm a big fan of The Pin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u356	But yes, I would find it interesting if the government were to ask what exactly was financed and on what terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u357	I'm gonna do my best, but I don't know if we can figure all that out. The European Commission is also entitled to do so. We're gonna try to figure out what's going on, but I'm not gonna torture them. Let's see how far we can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u358	It was not so long ago, so it seems to me that there is somewhere to ask for a budget to find out how much was available for the Netherlands for the media about the European elections and how that was spent. If you want to take the European Commission's approach to this, it would be very nice to have an immediate look at how the Commission is dealing with it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u359	Parliament could also ask for this. We can ask that, too. Let's take a look. I'm not gonna say anything. In this question by Mrs Leijten, too, we are considering whether we can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u360	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u361	Mr President, I would like to say this...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u362	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u363	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u364	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u365	Mr. Chairman. I will confine myself to tabling two motions to send a message to the Prime Minister towards Brussels. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) is being negotiated this week;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has been the largest net contributor to the European Union for many years;]] [[Whereas it is time for the Netherlands to pay significantly less to the European Union;]] [[having regard to the fact that the United Kingdom has left, thereby reducing the budget;]] [[calls on the government to veto if the outcome of the negotiations does not mean that the Netherlands will contribute substantially less to the EU per capita,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1512]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u366	Mr President, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in Brussels caterpillar-never enough is only out to get us as much tax money as possible;]] [[noting that the European Union has become a transfer union in which many billions are moved from the North to eastern and southern Member States;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is turning in more and more powers and sovereignty to the European Union, which means that we ourselves have less and less to say;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare to leave the EU in the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tony van Dijck and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1513]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u367	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the first-term questions. I just thought it was a little special to see that we are also hearing private views from Vak-K nowadays. In my view, this is not exactly what we are supposed to do when we have a debate here between the Chamber and the Cabinet. Mr. Chairman. My plea in this debate was that we, the Netherlands, should not stare blindly at the size of the European budget or the size of the Dutch contribution. The Dutch contribution is an investment in the Netherlands. Every euro we invest in the European budget will be returned twelve times, thanks to the benefits we derive from the European market. And from every euro we invest in the European knowledge economy, €1.60 comes back to Dutch knowledge and education institutions. My plea is therefore that, in the coming days, the European summit should not only focus on that 1%, but also, above all, on how we can modernise the European budget so that it is focused on the priorities: climate, migration, security and knowledge. I am also very pleased with the Prime Minister's commitment at the end of his reply that he will continue to step up his commitment to this modernisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u368	A brief question from Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u369	Yes, a short question about that fact that every euro we invest in the European Union comes back twelve times because of the internal market. I have already said in the first time that this is nonsense, because the internal market is quite different from the EU budget. I was just thinking when Mr Baudet was busy. The Norwegians also have access to the internal market. They all pay only 870 million. The Swiss also have access to the internal market. They have the same advantages, including 12 times and perhaps 1,200 times, which will benefit them from the internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u370	And the question is, Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u371	What makes D66 think that we need to invest 8 billion in order to justify being a member of an internal market? That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u372	There are actually several reasons. Firstly, if you are a member of the European Union, you are also at the table. Then you talk about the rules of the internal market and all kinds of other things. I do not want to stand on the sidelines and have no influence on what is happening in Brussels. And for me, Europe is more than just a commercial market. Europe is also a union of values, in which we uphold the rule of law, guarantee security, and in which we are now investing together in the great challenges of today's era, climate and energy transition and the transition to an even better knowledge-based economy, so that we can compete with large blocks such as China and Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u373	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u374	Mr. Chairman. That the Bishop/Leijten motion is still standing and guiding is good. I would like to say to anyone who thinks you have more ambition with more money: don't stare at it blindly! There is a lot of waste, there is a lot of pumping around, there is a lot of criticism about the spending of the current funds; look for your ambition there! It has not been possible to break that principle of a third agriculture, a third cohesion and a third one. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: how can we try to prepare that for another budget, so that it does not end somewhere again? And then, Chairman, the conference. If that is going to be a conference of 'we will explain to you once again that if you criticize the European Union, you are actually hiding behind the dikes and are not doing well', then it is really wasted money. If the conference is used to look seriously at where we stand now, which is the basis of the European Union in all facets of our people, and not only in a certain group that you see in the newspapers and on television, then I think it would be very useful to do so, precisely because, for example, that advice of the Scientific Council on Government policy calls for a much more flexible European Union. And that is not what this European Commission is heading for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u375	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u376	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I don't have any motions. My group is doing this a little less nowadays, as you may have noticed. "The concern about the size of the EU budget seems to be greater than the concern about the future earning capacity of the European Union." This is a quote from the ESB, the Economic Statistical Reports, of the Secretary-General of EZK. To be honest, that seems to me to be a good summary of this debate. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with me. I have also heard in this debate that the cabinet is committed to modernisation. It is committed not only to stabilising the payments but also to modernising the budget. But let's face it. Let's see what's in there. Then I don't watch the 15 million for a TV show or I don't know how much for a podcast, but then I'd rather keep my eye on the real big amounts. There are several proposals; there is the Finnish proposal and there is Charles Michel's proposal. There's all kinds of differences. But for all the proposals that lie ahead, roughly 70% still go to cohesion and agriculture. There is a 10% deficit as it was about to go to external policy. And there's 15% going on research and innovation. Now the Prime Minister says: you know, research and innovation, that must of course not come from this budget alone. That's right. But look at the total. Is this the modern budget where the European Union is going to win this battle over the next seven years, that international battle, that greening, that digitisation? To be honest, I have great doubts about that. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to reflect once again on this great whole, as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u377	You don't have a motion, but you've filled in almost two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u378	Yeah, that's the advantage if you don't have to read motions, Chairman. Then you can build speeches.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u379	No, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u380	Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u381	Yeah, you're welcome. Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u382	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, along with Mr Van Ojik, who will submit it with me anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that European support for the reception of Syrian refugees in Turkey is likely to end soon in the new MFF;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the EU continues to contribute to the decent reception of Syrian refugees in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1514]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u383	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his commitments and wish him every success, despite the flawed strategy, in order to draw out a good budget for the next seven years in the interests of the Netherlands. Finally, I should like to say that the spreading of extreme, radically right-wing conspiracy theories about repopulation and diluting European identity is a major handicap to the fact that we are having a serious debate here and that we are committing ourselves to informing people not on the basis of fear, but on the basis of our beliefs, our ideas and our values. So I will take a stand against that, because I think it is important to name it when it happens. We should not normalize that, even if it is done in a vessel full of other quasi-facts. It's of a different order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u384	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion while my vote still works. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Union is a community of values, but compliance with values such as the rule of law is under pressure in several Member States;]] [[calls on the Government at the European Council to work for a strong and effective instrument linking the receipt of EU funds by Member States and the respect of the principles of law by Member States, and to use the original proposal made by the European Commission to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Asscher, Mr Leijten, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Jetten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1515]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u386	The rule of law is one of the fundamental values on which the Union is founded. In Article 2 of the Treaty, we have stated that we have those values in common. Let us not let that be a dead letter, even in this discussion. That is why it is a good thing that we, as a Chamber, are expressing our views on this issue and giving the cabinet our support in these negotiations. On behalf of the Christian Union, I wish the Prime Minister every success. I hope he's got enough shirts to go through that night that needs to be negotiated. But let us put this first: if we want to commit ourselves to a smaller budget and a smaller contribution, let us always be linked to the substantive objectives. In this way, we think we should be able to get support for our proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u387	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the answers. Indeed, it was more of a mutual debate than a debate with the government. But that is also because the government has communicated a fairly clear and clear commitment to the Chamber. I welcome the commitment that we are very careful with any increase in the EIB: enough guarantees, Juncker fund and funding through the European Central Bank, not just to throw another big pot away. I am also very curious about the real reflection that is taking place on why the Brexit took place. Not a poll or anything; that reflection can also relate to yourself. It's always hardest to investigate. But the Union is the community of values that we all defend. That's not just an econometric model, no matter how fun econometric models can be, I'm just saying. I am also very much looking forward to the answer to the question of how the subsidies to journalists provide guarantees of substantive independence. To make that point quite clear, we are, of course, subsidising national public service broadcasting. But that's what we do for five or seven years. In the meantime, Prime Minister Rutte or Minister Bijleveld or any minister may get angry at any broadcast, but may not intervene. That's why we do it that way. I think that's kind of the essence. So yes, public funds can be used for that, but how do you ensure that the Libelle or De Speld do not receive certain subsidies during the elections? I don't think that's desirable. Finally, a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the voluntary pension fund (closed in 2009) of MEPs has a significant gap;]] [[noting that the fund in question has a very low level of cover and that normal pension funds should be reduced to a low level of cover;]] [[calls on the government not to agree to supplement this deficit from the European budget at the MFF and at any time thereafter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1516]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u389	Thank you, Mr President. I hope that the Prime Minister will say the following at the European summit: 'You cannot bludgeon with a budget and make a Green Deal and make beautiful promises about climate when that budget finances climate destruction, if you, with the mandate given by the Netherlands to the European Commission, close trade deals that directly affect the climate and the reform of agriculture that is needed'. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has recognised that standards in agriculture in Mercosur countries are lower than European standards and that the EU has no option of forcing them to be raised;]] [[Whereas the Mercosur Treaty significantly increases unfair competition for European farmers;]] [[Whereas Brazilian meat intended for export to Europe has been subject to frequent fraud;]] [[noting that the Government has recognised that there are no enforceable agreements in the EU-Mercosur Convention that protect the Amazon or prevent illegal deforestation;]] [[expresses the need for the Mercosur Convention to be removed from the table;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the European Commission that the Netherlands is withdrawing support for the Mercosur Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Diks, Mr Baudet, Mr Van Weerdenburg, Mr Alkaya and Mr Öztürk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1517]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u390	Mr. Chairman. I've got another cut-off proposal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission is spending tens of millions of euros on promotional campaigns for meat;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to European subsidies for the promotion of meat,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1518]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u391	Thank you, Madam President. In addition to what I said in the first term, I would like to add one more thing about the unhappiness of the EU's current plans, which is purely their term. It's seven years from now. Can you imagine how fundamentally undemocratic the European Union really is? It is about a financial plan that is well over an election period. There is no parliament, no democratic organisation in the whole world that could do such a thing. I would just like to give you the basis that we are dealing with. We are dealing with an organization that is not accidentally undemocratic or which has looming errors. We are dealing with an organization that is fundamentally antidemocratic. The European Union is an anti-democratic organisation which is intended to undermine, short-wipe, abolish democracies. That is the aim of the European Union. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has been the largest net contributor of the European Union per capita since 2000;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has agreed an annual discount since 2007, because our country pays so much more than other countries;]] [[Whereas the European Commission intends to phase out this reduction, whether gradually or not;]] [[noting that the discount has not been introduced for nothing and that it is in the Dutch interest to maintain that discount;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the deletion of the discount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU budget has increased each time in history;]] [[whereas two thirds of Dutch people do not want more money to go to the European Union;]] [[having regard to the fact that the United Kingdom has left the EU and has therefore left a large gap in the budget;]] [[noting that the European Commission is now proposing to increase the budget again to more than 1.00% of the EU's combined GDP;]] [[calls on the government to veto the final multiannual budget to increase the budget to more than 1.00% of the EU's combined GDP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1519]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1520]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u392	Let me get this straight. I believe that Mr Baudet's first recital in that second motion was that the European Union's budget is increasing each time. That's just not true. The current MFF has also been reduced in relation to the MFFs due to the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u393	The European Union's total expenditure is constantly growing as the European Union is growing. The European Union is getting bigger and more and more powers. I have explained the reasons for this in detail in the first period. They are that the European Union wants to become a state.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u394	Firstly, welcome to Mr Baudet. I haven't seen him for two years at debates before the European summit, so glad he's back. He missed all the Brexit debates. Unfortunately, Mr. Baudet, you weren't there. But his motion for a veto is a little hypocritical. You don't want a veto, do you? You want to leave the European Union, don't you? Then file such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u395	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u396	Mrs. Leijten. You've made your point, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u397	Well, this is a little running away from... Mr Baudet almost doesn't come and then you lay something down with him and then he doesn't even answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u398	I belong to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u399	Don't you think you're a hypocrite with that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u400	I'm one of the most active MPs. I've done about most of the debates here of all the Members of Parliament, so I'm really not going to let that happen. We are, of course, a relatively small group, even the smallest group elected here in the Chamber. Then you have to make choices, but I think my position on the EU is well known. It can also be found in all kinds of books, so if Mr Mulder is thinking on a free afternoon and wondering what was the position of the Forum for Democracy on the European Union, then that can really be found in enough places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u401	No, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u402	And that, as long as we are in the European Union, we must do everything we can to limit the balding of the Netherlands by the other countries as much as possible, seems to me to be entirely in line with our positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u403	This has changed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u404	Mrs. Arib, finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u405	Mrs. Arib? I'm the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u406	What's your problem, Mr. Mulder? What's your problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u407	No, no, this is the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u408	I finally have a chance to debate with Mr Baudet, because he never comes to these summits, but I can't ask for anything!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u409	No-hee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u410	What do you want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u411	If Mr Baudet is honest now, he is not coming up with a veto, but now he is coming up with a motion on the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u412	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u413	Then we're clear. But this is a little derailing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u414	That's what you said. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u415	I don't understand the point at all. But I am in favour of nexit. If that is what you want to know, I am very much in favour of leaving the European Union. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u416	Then we'll go to Mrs. Leijten's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u417	I would just like to make a comment and ask a question. The point is that Mr Baudet says he is one of the most active Members of Parliament. I know parliamentary groups which are also small, but which I see much more often in AO's and in plenary debates and which also make proposals much more often. That could be the Christian Union, the Animal Party or 50PLUS. They're also four or five and they're a lot more active. I've seen them a lot before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u418	Funny how Mrs Leijten thinks there's four or five of us. That already shows how extremely active we are, that she has created the image that we are four or five Members of Parliament! While there's just the two of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u419	I'm sure I'm aware of that. But even the DENK Group sees us more often in debates relating to the control of the government and also in AO's than we see Mr Baudet or Mr Hiddema anywhere. To say that he is the most active parliamentarians is simply not the truth. That was a comment. We can calculate this statistically, and that's what I'm happy to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u420	I didn't say I was the most active... It is also important to just listen to people and not always twist things. By the way, I can give that to anyone here. Mr Jetten also has a hand in this. I am one of the most active Members of Parliament when it comes to taking part in plenary debates. Those lists are well known. And yes, that Mrs Leijten might be a little less... That might have something to do with her wallet, too. I can't quite see how she's doing her job. But that we may meet a little less often than that it encounters certain counterparts of other parties, that may be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u421	You want to ask me something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u422	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In the interruption debate with Mr Asscher, Mr Baudet said that the Second World War had nothing to do with nation states. But wasn't it the nation state of Germany that invaded the Netherlands, the nation state of Poland or other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u423	This is indeed a misconception, I think, in our view of history. The cause of this devastating war has not been the need to have nation states, quite the contrary. Fascism and national socialism, as well as communism, are explicitly anti-national or post-national ideologies, which were not bound by national borders either. That's why those wars were so devastating, because they wanted to conquer all those countries. Anyone who is in favour of national states is also automatically in favour of limitation. There is therefore no reason at all for a national state to wage an expansive conquest war. If you want to be a nation state, you're focused on the people who belong to your nation, to your people. If the Netherlands just wants to be a national state...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u424	It's gotta be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u425	... then there is no reason to conquer Portugal or Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u426	Mr Baudet, you have used much more speaking time than other Members of Parliament, both in the first term and in the second. All interruptions must be short, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u427	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u428	I was concerned about the historical parallel. If there's one thing I've kept up with from everything I've learned and the impressive things we're still learning about World War II, it's that it went over and came out of superiority, from thinking in races, that certain races shouldn't be there. If you distort the history of the Second World War in this way, I do find that very dangerous in this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u429	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u430	Racism is therefore also a non-national ideology, so it is also a universalist ideology. That's why I blame that absurd accusation that I sometimes get thrown at my head here... It's so absurd. We are very much in favour of a national community in which people of different origins can be at home. I can't judge exactly what you learned in school as you say. But if that were to be that nationalism was the cause of expansion wars in which all of Europe was subjected to a universalist or racial or class thinking like that of the communists, then it had about nothing to do with the philosophy of the nation state, the national state.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u431	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u432	That philosophy of the nation state connects to what happened in World War II, where in the run-up...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u433	But that's not what I'm doing! I'm just saying it's the opposite!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u434	Don't yell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u435	That's exactly what you did. What happened in the run-up to World War II had to do with putting away a population group, permanently, showing them as inferior, giving you at some point the horror of the Holocaust. That the parallel is drawn by Mr Baudet himself with a condoning of a philosophy about the nation state, that is indeed the laundering of extreme right here in the House of Representatives. And that's what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u436	I really can't follow this. I'm doing the opposite. I say that the theory, the argument for the national state, is the opposite of all the horrible things that Mrs Leijten is starting to hide. Anyone who wants a national state wants the people, wherever they come from in Ernest Renan's philosophy, to feel welcome, to be part of a community and together to shape a future. This regardless of origin, gender, skin color and so on. That is exactly what we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u437	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u438	But what did you see in World War II, and also in communist philosophies and other post-national or anti-national philosophies? They wanted to rule across national borders. So I really can't feel addressed in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u439	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u440	I think it is very important to clearly distance myself from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u441	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u442	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u443	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by packing up Mr Omtzigt, because I thought that, quite frankly, in his term, he found exactly the middle ground between me and Mr Jetten on the issue of funding from the European Commission, and also on the analogy with national funding of journalistic expressions and the framework conditions that need to be laid down. Do not ask me to repeat exactly what Mr Omtzigt said about it, but I liked it. And I think it was exactly the compromise between me and Mr Jetten. That is what we are also involved in the search for an answer to the more general question raised in the report of this European Council. I promised you that before. Mrs Leijten asked: how are you going to stop another third, a third, a third next time? Of course, we tried that last time. During our Presidency, we have also taken initiatives to modernise the budget. And I am very motivated to continue to do so over the next ten or twenty years. Mr Van Ojik asked a question about the European Union's ability to earn. In my view, this earning capacity is only influenced by the budget. That's what I said in the first term. It is very influenced by the fact that we here in the Netherlands, for example, close the curtains at eight o'clock in the evening and say: let's shut out the outside world. That was the Netherlands that became visible in the public debate last week, and sometimes also in the political debate. If we do that, and when we say that we are turning against international cooperation, against trade agreements and that kind of thing, I know one thing for sure: that is really the fast track to losing our prosperity here. Really, I'm 100% convinced of that. Then there's the motions. No. 1512, by Tony van Dijck: dissuade. Our commitment is a constant contribution, taking into account inflation and economic growth. The motion in part No. 1513 is not in Dutch interest: dissuade. Motion in part No. 1514: Judgment Room. Consistent with cabinet commitment. Motion in part No. 1515: take over or take over Judge Room. It is an effort, but that is how I read the motion. I can't give you a guarantee. I had already said it to Mr Asscher. In fact, this motion is in line with my interrupting debate with Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u444	I would like to take a look at Mrs Van der Graaf's objection to taking over the motion on item No. 1515.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u445	I think it would be a good thing for the Chamber to give its opinion on this. But I welcome the Prime Minister's judgment. I heard him right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u446	Then we'll put the motion to the vote. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u447	Then the motion to part No. 1516. As an endeavor, I say Court of Justice. As a result, it is not possible. I can't say for sure. But I understand from Mr Omtzigt's explanatory statement that this is important. I'll share that with him. I'm more than okay with it. By the way, it is not part of this MFF negotiation. So the motion is actually touching on future moments when we are talking about budgets. Again, I very much agree, but it must be an effort. If I can read the motion like that, she'll be judged Chamber. Now that Mr Omtzigt does not jump up angry, I understand that he likes the interpretation. The motion in part No. 1517 I advise, but it was also in the mood this afternoon. I think that's when the votes stopped. I have no other opinion on this than Mrs Kaag and Mr Blok have debated it here in the debate. So I'm gonna go along with that. In that sense, it is a repetition of moves. I think it's literally the same motion, so the same judgment. On the motion in part No. I would like to say to Mrs Ouwehand: to hold until the relevant parliamentary questions have been answered. Parliamentary questions have been raised on this point. The suggestion to her is to hold the motion. If she doesn't, I'll have to discourage the motion, in the absence of precise knowledge on these matters. But it seems to me that it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u448	Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u449	I'm constructive, you know. I'll hold her for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u450	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (21501-20, No. 1518). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u451	Great. The motion in part No. 1519. I'll have to say something about that. Correction is not a goal for the cabinet but a means. But in itself, what is in this motion is correct, so judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 1520 I don't recommend. I refer to the Bishop/Leijten motion. I refer to the fact that the 1% is not a goal but a means, but that the 1% is the fast track to our bet. So that's what we're gonna be working on. That's how I dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u452	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-34.u453	I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate in one way or another. The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow afternoon.
