ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on institutional racism in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament. We have a problem with the clock. That means that we are watching the speaking time, but you do not see it yourself. That doesn't mean you can go on indefinitely. It's a little clumsy. As far as the questions are concerned, I propose that six questions be put together in the first period. Then we're gonna see how we're gonna do that towards the cabinet. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Someone's about to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u3	Oh, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u4	I have a point of order, Mr President. It's a special day today, July 1st. I would like to propose a moment of silence for the commemoration of Ketikoti.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u5	This is a debate. If we want to keep a moment of silence, we can, but then we do it in order, so that all Members of Parliament are given the opportunity to be present. We are also doing it in order by stating it in advance, so that we can see who we might invite, and not just by breaking into the debate. We have certain rules, and we have to respect them. I shall now give the floor to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. It's been about racism for weeks, but we haven't really talked about racism. That is why I am pleased that we are having this debate now. After George Floyd's death, tens of thousands of people went out here. Tens of thousands of people with signs "I can't breathe," three words that symbolized fear, humiliation, unequal treatment that people here in our society also experience. Then a kind of wave arose in which people told their own personal story, their own experience of racism in our country. Some talked about it for the first time, others talked about it for years, but were never heard. Some did it on TV, others at the coffee machine. Some were distraught, others were furious. Most of them were sad. What did they tell us? They told me how they got spit on, how they got hit. They told them how they couldn't get a house because of their skin color, how they couldn't get a job because of their last name. They told me what it's like to be in line the only one who gets taken out, not once, but every time. And in the meantime it was soon about Femke Halsema and the demonstration on Dam Square, about Derksen and Genee, about who is a hypocrite and who is an NSB'er. It almost seemed as if the fight against racism was distorted into a kind of fight against freedom of expression. But I have news: you can be against racism and freedom of speech. In fact, that is what our Constitution requires us to do. Mr. Chairman. This is why this is an important debate. Because we can't hear what is really said by those protesters, by the people who share their story with us, that this fight against racism is a fight for equal treatment, that people claim their place at the table, that people who have been Dutch for generations are tired of fighting, that for many of the Dutch who are now expressing themselves, institutional racism is not a tiresome sociological discussion, Prime Minister, but something that limits them in their daily lives, which makes them less equal, which makes them less safe and less free. My goal for this debate is not to make the headlines, or the next noise; my goal is to conclude at the end of the debate that we have done something concrete about it, that we have linked policies to real existing inequality in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u7	What a terrible story from the chairman of the PvdA Group. He makes it seem as though things are very bad in the Netherlands with racism and discrimination. He makes it look like things are going very badly in the Netherlands with racism and discrimination. And I have news: that is not the case. That is not the case. And of course, every incident of someone experiencing something is one too many, but the image that the chairman of the PvdA group presents is an insult to all Dutch people. The image you are now portraying, that the Netherlands would be a racist country, is an insult to all Dutch people. It is an insult that racism in the Netherlands would be incredibly bad. I have news for you, Mr Asscher. The Netherlands is one of the most tolerant countries in Europe. The Netherlands is one of the countries where racism, for example by colour, is the least common. So stop making something bigger that isn't big at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u8	It is tempting to say that it is not that big, what it is, we are a better country than other countries, we are more tolerant. Of course that's tempting. It's also a finer self-image. But reality is different. Reality is different when you really listen to what people are going through. And if you don't want to, or if you don't believe that, there's now a stack of reports as high as this Chamber building showing discrimination in the labour market, discrimination in internships, discrimination in the housing market, discrimination in youth care, ethnic profiling in practice. People experience that every day. Certainly, we have a fantastic Constitution, with an Article 1 that should inspire us all. But the practice is that a lot of Dutch people, like you and I, experience every day that they are not treated equally. And we have to do something about that. That is our job as a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u9	Once again, discrimination is wrong; we do not disagree on this. But it's not like it's a big problem in the Netherlands. I believe that several studies say that 95% of Dutch people have no problem with immigrants, and that they can also accept an immigrant as a friend, even if they have a colored skin. We saw that last year I was told that 153 or 173 cases of discrimination were reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course there are 173 too many, don't get me wrong, but it's not a big problem in the Netherlands. Do you know what a big problem is in the Netherlands? That a lot of native Dutch people are going crazy about this. They are disadvantaged. A native Dutchman hardly dares to say anything anymore about the fact that he lost his country because of the mass immigration. He's afraid to be called a racist. He's afraid to be called someone who discriminates while he's being discriminated against himself, Mr. Asscher, including you. In fact, if he wants a social housing, he can wait ten years longer because asylum seekers lead the way through this mass immigration, which has also been your policy. He himself is discriminated against because when it comes to health insurance he doesn't get anything for free. So why don't you talk about your own voter, about that discrimination against the native Dutchman? That's a problem. Why don't we have demonstrations about that, why don't we call for a minute's silence, why don't you talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u10	Of course, Mr Wilders does this more often. Then he indicates that the native, or the white Dutchman, is actually discriminated against. The example of these rentals has been used very often. That's tempting, because it's always nice when you can blame someone. But when you see how it works, what the facts are, you see that rental homes are given to people who have to come out of a stay-of-my-care home, that rental homes should be given to people in need, that rental homes are given to people in crisis and that there are too few rental homes. I think that Mr Wilders knows as well as I do that it is because too few rental houses have been built, because the market has been given too much space there. The worst thing you can do, I think, is to set up people in this country who depend on such a social housing unit opposite each other. Actually, you say you're on that waiting list, and that's not because we're building too little or because the rules of the game aren't right, that's because of the other guy. While I think if someone's on the run, we're talking about a real fugitive, and he's looking for security, and we're taking him in here, you have to house it. I believe that even Mr Wilders thinks that you should not refuse all the refugees and that you should, of course, house them. So I think it doesn't really do justice to the debate and to the feeling of disadvantage that Mr Wilders calls when you keep trying to turn it around in: it's not because there are too few houses, it's the other one's fault. In fact, you are contributing to a climate where we are always going to judge each other in the background, instead of looking at the problems that affect everyone in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u11	I don't contribute to a climate, I name the facts. Of course, too little is being built in the Netherlands. But what is also true is that between 2013/2014 and 2017/018 80,000 social rental homes went to asylum seekers. 80,000 social rentals. That's about as much as what was built on new homes in those years. The new homes have all gone to people who were asylum seekers. We call that status holders, but they were asylum seekers. So that's pure discrimination against the Dutch. Your mailbox will still be filled with mails from people who say: my daughter has been on the waiting list for five years and we are still getting nothing, and those asylum seekers are ahead. That is not creating a climate, that is the facts. That's exactly what you're undermining for what you want so badly. My point is not that you are insincerity when talking about combating racism, but please do not make the problem any bigger than it is, and secondly, pay attention to that Dutch citizen, including the PvdA chooser, who is disadvantaged, who is discriminated against as a native because the others are ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u12	I am glad that Mr Wilders does not doubt my sincerity in the fight for equal treatment. Because it should be for every Dutchman, whether he is looking for a home or looking for a job, in education or anywhere else. I think we differ on how big the problem of racism is. I think that may also have something to do with the fact that we are both less confronted with it than people who notice it every day. It makes a big difference whether you're being judged by your skin color or your last name all the time, or whether that doesn't happen. Then it is easy to say: the problem is not that big, we have a huge tolerant society here. Of course, there are always worse countries, we agree on that. But one of the nasty things about this kind of debate is that before you know it, you all end up in whataboutistan, where you say: there's a problem here that someone says: yes, but what about Syria, that's worse. Then you will no longer have a debate, when I think it is our job to tackle the problems here in the Netherlands. There is a problem about racism, which is also not denied by Mr Wilders. He thinks it's less big than I do, but that doesn't have to stop us from doing it together. Two, where the rentals are concerned: the danger of misdirection with numbers is that you can say that too few houses have been built. That's right. We've got status holders coming in who need homes. That's right. But it is not the case that one property that is built in all these years is rented once. Not that Mr Wilders said that, but someone who heard his interruption might have got the impression that only rent homes went to asylum seekers, and he might think: hey, Wilders is right. But it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u14	That's not true. But we do have a problem: there are too few homes and there is a problem with racism. I was just expressing my hope that at the end of this debate we actually did something about it, that people saw that we, as representatives of the people, have taken our responsibilities, that we have also started to do the non-heavy work, that we have resisted the temptation of each other, but that we have looked at the problem ourselves. I would like to make a number of proposals for this. The first proposal I would like to make is to set up a state committee: a state committee that investigates the inflamed, structural racism, institutional racism in our society. Why a state commission? Because it affects our constitution: not the written text of our Constitution, but the way our rule of law now works and how people are treated differently, whether it is algorithms that the government uses or the ethnic profile that people encounter. I would be very pleased if we could move on to that now. The second proposal I am making is: let us exclude from public procurement those institutions, organisations and companies that discriminate against people in the housing market or in the search for an internship or work. No more tax money to organisations that thus affect Dutch people in their equality. The third proposal I would like to make is in line with this morning's proposal on anti-Semitism. My proposal is to equip the police and our entire system better to deal with criminal discrimination. We want to specialize in it to ensure that it is prosecuted and perpetrators punished. A fourth proposal I would like to make is: in education, in our children, in our youth, to ensure that the attention to equal treatment, to racism, to tolerance, to move for you, is better anchored. Because when you teach kids to move into someone else, you really do something against racism. Then you really do something about prejudice and discrimination. This must therefore also be done in the training of teachers and in the training of youth workers. Then there is the fifth and the final proposal, Mr President. I see the clock doesn't run, but I felt you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u15	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u16	My last proposal is about symbols. Symbols are always tricky and dangerous, because then everyone says "yes, that's just a symbol." But symbols are important when it comes to recognition and processing of the past. I see that there are several parties who want to do something with that. I want to talk about Ketikoti. Mr Azarkan was right to draw attention to this in his point of order. That is what we are celebrating today, on 1 July: breaking the chains, abolishing slavery, and thus freedom. I would like to ask the cabinet to respond if that would be more the character of a national holiday and if we use that day to consider not only that black page in our past, but also today's racism, the racism that people still experience today, so that we do not stop fighting against it. Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I hope to work with all parties against racism. Let me say again: racism is not an opinion; it is not a joke, it is the problem underneath. Racism is also something you must fight with all of us. Against racism is not a left-wing hobby. It's not a matter of left or right at all. It's a matter of civilisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u17	Perhaps in abundance, Mr Azarkan: I just came from the commemoration in Amsterdam, where I laid a wreath on behalf of the House of Representatives, together with my colleague from the House of First Instance. We have also observed a minute's silence. So you're not suggesting that... Members of parliament do it in their own way, and I stood there on behalf of the Chamber. That's a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u18	If I may respond briefly, Mr President, I appreciate that very much. I was in Rotterdam with Ketikoti yesterday. I was only concerned that we observed a moment of silence, not extended for the rest, but that we should consider it. I think Mr Asscher thought that was a good idea too. As far as I'm concerned, if you're going to explain how you did it, that's fine. It could have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u19	No, that's not a problem. But you know that July 1st is an important...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u20	I'm not suggesting anything. You can't hold me responsible for what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u21	No, just for a second. July 1st is an important day for a lot of people. We're supposed to be dealing with that in a respectful way. Your request can be done very well and is also legitimate. It may also be that there is a lot of support for it. You knew in advance that we could have organized it fine if you had just reported it in advance, so that other colleagues could also participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u22	I'd still like to respond, Mr. Chairman. Sure, you're right about that. I believe that the Chamber is dealing with its own agenda, so if a majority of the Chamber had said that we wanted to dwell briefly on that, it could have done so. I did not ask for a roll-call vote. You could have. I've accepted that we're doing it the way you said we are. Having said that, thank you for explaining that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u23	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Asscher seems to have recently gone into politics and seen the light of day. But there are parties, such as DENK, who have seen for years that institutional racism is a major problem. I have just looked at Mr Asscher's motions. It kind of sounds like a cheap talk trick to me. I've looked at what he wants, which is checkable targets. I see motions on clear targets for preventing discrimination. The PvdA has said that we are voting against it. Visible discrimination should be a reason for dismissal. The PvdA: against. A 2016 National Action Programme to measure discrimination annually. The PvdA: against. "Asks the government to take measures to facilitate municipalities to counter threats to mosques"; an important story as well. The PvdA: against. Employees of temporary employment agencies should actually take a kind of oath that they do not discriminate. The PvdA: against. Double the penalty for group termination. The PvdA: against. I have a lot of motions and I see the PvdA voted against. The actions are therefore in stark contrast to Mr Asscher's fine words. I'm asking him how he looks back on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u25	This is exactly what I do not think you should do in such a debate. Mr Azarkan is well aware that the PvdA has a long tradition of fighting racism. We have always spoken out strongly and clearly against this. We have also done a lot in the fight against it. As proof of the fact that we do not, Mr Azarkan has tabled a number of motions from his own party against which we have voted. I don't think that's very convincing at all. I'd really like to talk about what else we can do. That is what this debate is for. I believe that this debate is about what we can do together as a Chamber for policy improvements and what we can give the Cabinet. I'm genuinely working on that here. I do not find Mr Azarkan's measurement of how I or the Labour Party did it so interesting at all. Can you do better? I'm sure. I think we're here together to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u26	But that's too easy. I believe that we, as politicians, have a responsibility. Mr Asscher has one too. I am looking at the contribution of, for example, Mr Samsom, the former party leader, who said that Moroccans have an ethnic monopoly on crime. Or look at Mr Spekman, the previous chairman: Moroccans must be humiliated in front of their kind, he said. You'll be seen as a species. Much has been said about it in the previous period; Mr Asscher has done so. A false investigation whereby people are now excluded, making 86% of the Turkish Dutch and 82% of the Moroccan Dutch wrongly dismissed as terrorists. I say to Mr Asscher that he may want to put this away, but that fact is that on that basis, on the basis of headlines for which Mr Asscher is responsible, people are rejected. I think he has that responsibility, so I would like to say to him: apologize so that we can put it behind us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u27	This is kind of nasty, isn't it? This is really nasty. I am trying to answer the question about Mr Azarkan's stack of motions, and now he is going to blame me for being too easy. In a rather high tone, he's going to ask me to apologize. How are we gonna get it? Sadet Karabulut, Zihni Özdil, Sultan Günal, Keklik Yücel, Khadija Arib: numerous decent people's representatives who do their work here, Nevin Özütok, and who are ethnically profiled by the DENK party of Mr Azarkan on videos up to Turkish television. People have received threats, people have been called names, their families have been in trouble, all by Mr. Azarkan's DENK party. Speaking of ethnic profiling! I am trying to give you a polite answer to a question and then you are going to blame me for being easy. I await your apology in your term, Mr. Azarkan. And then we can see if we can put the past behind us. Ethnic profiling by a political party of fellow people's representatives in the Dutch parliament!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. This weaned emotion... this fake emotion doesn't make any sense at all. Mr Asscher knows that too. Mr Asscher knows that, because this avoids his own responsibility. It was he who, as a minister, had a false investigation conducted, while the director of Motivation said, "You shouldn't do that." I remember reading that investigation. People came to me and said that 86% of the Turks are being thrown away as terrorists. You're responsible for that. It doesn't matter to turn that around and put DENK away like this. That avoids reality and avoids the responsibility that Mr Asscher himself must bear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Azarkan finds my emotion "anneeded." I'm not sure what he means by that. I don't think I'm angry a lot, especially in this house. I'm quite a quiet type, but I hate that people's representatives who don't have the role as I do and Mr Azarkan does, but who keep ahead of themselves and just do their work, are so horribly fucked up by the DENK party. I just wanted to say that; yes, that's right. I would also like to talk about what happened in 2013 and 2014. Fine. I'm sure I'd like to talk about the things I didn't do right. There's a lot of them. I always try to be honest about that, and then I try to do better. But that you suspect others in their integrity, in who they are and in their identity, is exactly the problem we're talking about here. That is exactly what this debate should be about: reducing people to part of their background and then shitting them. And that as part of the connection! There's nothing weaned about that. That is something I sincerely blame you for, because I know what the consequences have been for our colleagues. And you know it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u30	I would add that you can also take the name of Dilan Yeşilgöz from our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u31	Unfortunately, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u32	Because she too has experienced the way DENK deals with colleagues in the Chamber when it comes to ethnic profiling. So I'm going to go along with that. But I have a question for Mr Asscher, because I think it is important that we stick together, precisely against discrimination and racism. I waited for him to finish his full term, but I do have a question for him. On the issue of racism, I hear Mr Asscher talking mainly about the negative side, so the harsh racism of rejection, but I have not heard Mr Asscher say anything about patronism, as we sometimes see in the Netherlands. I wonder how the Asscher looks at the Divibokaal, which was published by the NOS at the time. In addition, it seems as if a number of editors are more or less going on safari, looking for exotic animals, to put that in the news item and then win a bowl, a trophy, at the end of the week. That has touched a lot of people who are just Dutch, coincidentally with a non-Western origin, in fact extremely hard in the heart. How does the PvdA view that part of being treated differently as a Dutchman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u33	I will try to give a genuine answer to that, because I think this is quite a difficult question, to be honest. Do you know why? Diversity policy, the fact that you think it's important that people see themselves represented in organizations of power, whether that is this Chamber, the cultural sector or the media sector, is important. 'Cause that's not gonna happen on its own. There are people who succeed on their own strength, but we also know that it will take an awfully long time. So I think it is important to pay attention to this in order to encourage organisations to do their best to reflect much more the society of 2020, in which we live. At the same time, you sometimes see people making clumsy mistakes in their good intentions, which makes it humiliating, which is why it doesn't help and makes people who get a place wonder if it only happened because of their background. Then you're gonna put the horse behind the cart. I just wouldn't like to draw the conclusion that it's not important. I think we should all support it. It would be nice if we could do that. You want people to be much more represented in the places of power. We have raised this together on the issue of women in supervisory boards, to give just one example. That would come naturally, but it takes far too long. I do agree with you that you must be very careful and keep in mind whether you are not making a humiliating choice with that good intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you for Mr Asscher's reply, but I can hear him say something that is triggering me anyway, because he confuses reflection and diversity. I also think that is the biggest problem in the Netherlands. Divibokaal and Divibase, a database in which experts have been selected for their ethnicity and nationality, are very concerned with the fact that you think that your knowledge and skills as a person are sufficient to be invited and that your nationality has nothing to do with that. That is why I come to the difference between reflection and diversity. I think we're making a big mistake and failing people in the Netherlands if we throw those two on a pile. It is very good that there is a good reflection in society. So that has to do with reflection, especially appearance. There is often talk about diversity policy, but of course it is bizarre when you combine ethnicity or skin color with diversity. If I were to join a board of directors filled with white men today, the whole of the Netherlands would applaud the fact that the board of directors is a lot more diverse because there is a Moroccan Dutchman in between, but if it turns out that board is made up of all VVD's and I am entering as a VVD'er, there is no diversity. So my origin, my ethnicity, doesn't make it any more diverse. My values, perspective and insight make me more diverse. Does Mr Lodewijk Asscher agree with me that, once and for all, we need to review diversity policy in the Netherlands and make a difference between reflection of society and genuine diversity policy based on values, perspective and attitude to life?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u35	I think Mr El Yassini is asking good but difficult questions. I do not just want to judge him as a VVD, because that would not do him any good, even if that makes sense in this Chamber. I do not think I entirely agree with him, because I think that more diverse teams, i.e. teams of people who bring from their background more than what is already there, can make an organisation richer and can also bring strength and quality. I don't think this will come naturally. It is not for me to judge a possible career step by Mr El Yassini, to any board of Commissioners, but I would welcome it if Dutch companies had more diverse boards than they do now, because they are now generally white men and often VVDs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u36	Let me now turn to my final question to Mr Asscher. I really want to understand what Mr Asscher is saying. Is he telling me that because of my ethnicity, I'm more diverse? Or does Mr Asscher look at who I am as a human being and judge me on the basis of my character, knowledge, skill, perspective and values? What does my ethnicity have to do with diversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u37	That is a personal question from Mr El Yassini. We don't know each other that well either, but I know we were talking recently about Mr El Yassini's 13-year-old nephew, who sometimes gets treated differently from my nephew. And that has to do with background, origin and last name. We both think that's bad, but it's gonna happen. I think it might help if there's someone in an organization who says, "You talk about it a little easy," but for my nephew, it's different, because my nephew gets picked out of that line, and my nephew says, "Is that bike yours?" When he's at his lock, they say to my nephew, "Wait a minute, you speak good Dutch." That is why I believe that, without affecting the qualities and strength of people such as Mr El Yassini, it can be of added value to have more diversity in an organisation. Because it expands your look and because you hear more stories than you hear them when everyone has exactly the same background.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u38	I have a question for Mr Asscher. In the previous cabinet, he said something about the history of slavery. At that time he expressed deep remorse and regret on behalf of the Dutch cabinet, not personally, because that is not what this is about, but on behalf of the Dutch State. Does he agree with me that it is now time for another step to apologize for what happened then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u39	That was in 2013, 150 years after the abolition of slavery by the Netherlands, and ten years later people became free. I spoke then of deep regret and remorse. The discussion about excuses is always very loaded and burdened, because people think: yes, but I didn't do anything? But Mr Klaver deliberately makes the question quite sensible, I think, by saying that it is not about that but about recognising the role of the Netherlands as a country. And yes, I agree with him that it would be appropriate to make that apology. In that context, I think it is appropriate. That's part of what I just said about the importance of symbols. Without making it bigger again, it fits in a good way with a phase in our history that we are not proud of and for which just should be attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u40	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u41	Finally, Mr President. My question to Mr Asscher is whether he agrees with me that racism is working in two directions. For example, there is not only racism towards black people but also towards white people. I assume that's true on both sides. Do you agree with me? That's my first question. And, if so, how do you make the remark of the former alderman of the Labour Party of this city, The Hague, Mr Baldewsingh? He said, in my opinion, two years ago or so, when he was alderman, that the city hall and later the city of The Hague should become "dewit." We had to get to City Hall first, and then we had to get to the city. Isn't that a pure form of PvdA racism?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u42	If you look at what racism is, it's that it treats people differently, hurts people, hurts them, threatens them, or worse because of their skin color, their culture, their religion or their background. So that is not restricted to one skin colour. It can appear in all kinds of forms. Unfortunately, we also have examples where that happens. In all cases, I find that objectionable. Today, following the demonstrations, we are talking about the racism that Dutch people of colour experience every day. Unfortunately, however, there is much more unequal treatment in our country. Then there's the verdict. I don't think that's a happy statement, no. I think that's a statement you should see in the light of the discussion I just had with Mr El Yassini. You can argue, and I do, that it's healthier for an organization if it's more diverse and it's not all the same people. But with the term "disknowledge" you're taking a risk, so I wouldn't have chosen those words. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u43	Well, that's good to hear, because they're just reverse Ku Klux Klan lyrics when you're talking about "unwitting." It is very good that Mr Asscher should distance himself from that. In terms of diversity, I may not convince you, but the only good criterion when it comes to diversity is that whoever you are, whatever gender you have, whatever color you have, the best man or woman with the best qualities should be on the spot for which he or she applies? Then it doesn't matter what your background is. Unfortunately, in practice it does matter whether you are from the VVD or the PVV, because at the VVD you become mayor and you are on the board, and not at the PVV. But actually it should be about quality and it shouldn't be about diversity at all or about color or I-I-know-what-what-what. Do you agree with me that in this respect we should throw diversity overboard and not favour women, homosexuals, people with a tan or immigrants, but that just the best candidate, whoever it is, should be given the job he is applying for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u44	That sounds attractive, of course, only the experience teaches us that people very often think that the people who look like them are the best candidates. That's why we didn't see women in top positions for a long time, because all these men thought: no, the best is a man. Now you see that very often a white new colleague is chosen, because those prejudices seem to be in the way, consciously or unconsciously. Of course we want the best candidate, only I am convinced that there is a tremendous amount of talent that is not seen by those unconscious prejudices, because the image of a board member is a different picture than the picture that people use when they apply. So I think we need to change that. This is where diversity policy can contribute, precisely because it will benefit much more from all the talents that exist in society. Mr Wilders refers to a statement in the media by an alderman of my party in the city of The Hague. I did not intend to, but I did see that this morning, in the city council of The Hague, a PVV council member, appointed by Mr Wilders himself, said to a fellow party member of mine, following the fact that she claims to have been lonely sometimes in the fight against racism and discrimination: "The only place where you can find more people of colour is in Zimbabwe. Perhaps you should go there." That happened in the city council of The Hague this morning. I'm seriously trying to address every question of whether every verdict comes from whoever it is. I would be incredibly grateful if Mr Wilders was to say in the debate that he is also against racism, and that he would take the trouble to make it clear to his own partymates that that is simply not possible on this day, on 1 July, when we are having this debate here. I would appreciate it if he would do something about it, because he has that power in the party; it is not that. You're hurting people who don't deserve it, who just work hard as people's representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. The global protests following the horrific murder of George Floyd have been a catalyst for the social debate on discrimination, racism and mechanisms of exclusion and disadvantage, also here in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, however, over the past week, Mr Asscher said that at the beginning of his speech, they have also proved to be a catalyst for discussions involving polarization and removal, and that the trenches of one's own equal and the minefield of polarizing reproach sometimes stand in the way of a respectful dialogue. Geerten Waling spoke very eloquently about this in Elsevier, I think last week. His criticism of the imagestorm and the ugly, sad, harmful simplism on both sides is justified. He says: controversial statues do not require flowers or red paint, but a thorough discussion about the past and how to give that a place in public space. He's right about this. There's polarization from the flanks. Mr Asscher quite rightly concluded with all concrete proposals which touch on the heart of this debate. Because we have serious problems in our society in terms of discrimination and racism. You only have to look at social media on an average day to see how uncomfortable and even dangerous the traits of this debate are sometimes beginning to become. We have an important political task, which goes beyond just naming problems. It also has to do with how, as far as I am concerned, we are combating structural discrimination and racism from a broad political point of view, in the labour market, in finding a home, in finding an internship, but also in the supermarket and online. Then we build "living together" instead of facing each other. For the CDA, this starts with education and at school, because that's where learning begins with living together. That is why, as a CDA, we recently supported a motion, which I believe was the fourth point Mr Asscher has just mentioned in his list, in order to draw a little more attention to this in education. That was a motion by PvdA colleague Van den Hul, whom I believe she has tabled jointly with GroenLinks and the Party for Animals, and which I believe is widely supported in the Chamber. Learning about Dutch history, with all its beautiful but also bad aspects, can also contribute to an inclusive kind of patriotism. That is one of the reasons why I recently revived an old idea of father Marijnissen with Mr Marijnissen of the SP: the idea of creating a national historical museum. It is precisely in such a place that you can express the good side of history, but also the bad side of history, so that we can learn from it in a binding way. I saw this morning's proposal by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten to have a memorial year in the same line in 2023. That's a nice gesture. I'm curious how the Cabinet intends to deal with that. In concrete terms, in-service discrimination is an important issue. We should not say that our eyes are now open on this point, because then we are failing colleagues who have been working on this for a very long time. There have also been many initiatives in this area. My colleague Anne Kuik, together with my colleague Mr Van den Berge, has tabled a motion on this at the beginning of this year in order to reach a point of contact to lower the threshold for reporting internship discrimination. Only yesterday, the unspoken MP Peter Kwint of the SP also tabled a motion on this subject, which I believe is widely supported, calling for a tougher approach. I saw him tweeting this morning. I feel so free to leave his Twitter here with the Cabinet. He wondered what would happen if recognised apprenticeships were guilty of this kind of discrimination. What kind of consequences does this have? 'Cause I think they're watching how they do it once every four years. Should it not have more consequences, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Kwint, and how does the cabinet view them? When you talk about internship discrimination, the move towards labour market discrimination has been made quickly. Labour discrimination is a serious problem, but unfortunately it is also a very difficult problem to solve. We've been talking about that for years. Mr Van Weyenberg was just here. In the years that I was spokesperson for Social Affairs, there was no debate on labour market discrimination. Oh, he's still there without bouncing into my house in the morning: I've come up with something, we have to do something. He also tabled a motion last year, together with my colleague René Peters, to tackle discriminatory requests from temporary agency agencies more effectively. I understand from a letter that the cabinet is now preparing a legislative proposal following that motion, but that a notification of discriminatory requests is not part of that. However, I did not find the letter convincing in this regard. In my view, such a notification can help the very person who says 'I do not want to make such discriminatory requests' to say: listen, I have to mention this. That is why I want to hear from the cabinet why this notification is not there, when we get that bill and whether it should not just be there. Additional funding has also been made available to the Labour Inspectorate, precisely for the purpose of tackling labour market discrimination. How was this money spent? What's being done with it? What are the results of that? Then, Mr President, another sensitive issue: freedom of expression. Mr Asscher was just talking about it. Domenica Ghidei, who sits on behalf of the Netherlands on a committee of the Council of Europe against racism and intolerance, repeatedly speaks in interviews that she is concerned about the lack of punitiveness and a lack of willingness to report when it comes to hate speech, insults or discrimination. She calls for less discussion about the fuss that arises and more on how to deal with it more legally. For freedom of speech is a great thing, but it is not a free pass to hate, to swear, to humiliate, to insult and to discriminate. That's a criminal offence. I believe that the cabinet has taken a good step at this time to punish hate-sowing more severely. I think there's more. I'm trying to finish, Mr. Chairman. I will not extend speaking time indefinitely, even though the timer does not work. Colleagues Kathalijne Buitenweg and Gert-Jan Segers are in the process of drafting a bill on increased penalties. The WODC has recently issued a report on this. I like to be positive about that, but there can be more. What can you do to punish group termination more severely? This is a problem. There are also parties who believe that hate-sowinging and group-ending should be included in the Code of Criminal Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u47	You said you'd finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u48	Yeah, excuse me. The willingness to report must be increased and the penalty must be increased. I'm rounding up...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u49	Really!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yes! I hope that the events of recent weeks are not a prelude to further removal and polarisation, but a basis for strengthening a respectful dialogue about the past, the future, living together and combating mechanisms that lead to exclusion and disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u52	I welcome a number of parts of the CDA test and support for paying attention to the colonial past in education. Those are good moves. It will not have escaped Mr Heerma that the whole of the Netherlands is wondering where the CDA stands with the various candidate-listers we see in the media. I did not hear Mr Heerma speak on behalf of the CDA Group on what the group thinks about Black Piet. It is a racist caricature of which the Prime Minister also knows by now that these children are hurting. One of the candidate list drivers suggests a bit that the CDA believes that this should be left to the discussion in the villages themselves. I come from a similar village and there just bananas are thrown on the field when a black player is at the ball at football. It does not seem to me that that helps the people who are asking us to put an end to that institutional racism that Black Pete is a symbol of. What does the CDA Group think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u53	I have repeatedly said about the Black Piet and Saint Nicholas discussion how nasty and annoying I am that this discussion has been so polarized. On two sides, by the way. I have also repeatedly said that traditions are subject to change and that this is also happening here. In a recent interview with NRC, I also mentioned that in many places where there are soot wipers, there are all children along the route who have no problem with that at all, who do not crow at all. At the same time, I have always said, and I maintain that people who want to keep celebrating the sintering class as we have always done, may do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u54	But then the CDA leaves beautifully those children in the villages and in the cities by the way also forsaken. I remember well what my own experience in that village was like. You'll live there. And then three-quarters of the people who live there like Black Piet very much. And then the CDA says: we'll wait until the rest is over and until then, you can walk around with abdominal pain every time with sintering. I'm not okay with that. I'm really not okay with that. It would be nice if the CDA took a step today. It's a symbol, but it's an important symbol. It's an important crowbar for the rest of the discussion. It also bothers me that Mr Heerma says in his reply: on both sides. Yeah, when you're in the marginalized position, it's pretty quick to say you polarize when you open your mouth. If you refuse to keep your mouth shut about raising injustice, it is quickly said: you are polarizing here. That is not fair, because these people are trying to draw attention to structural injustice that has been looked away for too long, which they have not been aware of for too long. So it's not from both sides. People try to draw attention to injustice and then there is anger on the other hand among people who are not yet aware of it. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u55	In my opinion, we have seen, over the past year, in various places where even the ME has been employed in some cities, that there has indeed been polarising action on both sides. I have also made it very clear that I think that traditions are changing, that that is fine and that this is happening. But I do not think it is up to politics to impose it from above, nor do I think it is up to us to put forward legislative proposals which state that gold earrings and frizzy hair are mandatory. That tradition is changing. That is happening and it is happening in many places in society. But I also insist that I believe that people who want to keep celebrating that party as they always have, have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u56	Finally. In his introduction, the CDA made a number of good moves. That's good. But if you truly say "we saw the ME there," then you have no idea of history in general. Whenever people came up against injustice that wasn't very visible in society, which wasn't so much consciousness about, those wake-ups with hatred and repression have been treated. That police violence is part of institutional racism. You can't say: the police have acted, so there must have been something going on. No, this happens with that kind of movement. The CDA really needs to be aware of that. Plus I'm gonna keep repeating it. You're not gonna let those kids in the villages down with "traditions change" and "we'll see"? Those kids have abdominal pain in the sintering season. We shouldn't want that. And the CDA says, "We stand for living together." But it must stand for those children who cannot stand up for themselves in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u57	Part of this changed tradition is that it is in a very quiet way that I know that the parties on the right have always been very angry about it and that changes have been put in place, for example by the Sinterklaasjournaal. So it doesn't have to be all hard on hard. I'm not convinced of that. I think, before this whole discussion was going on, former mayor Eberhard van der Laan was already engaged in this discussion through the inner chamber. I do not see how the struggle and polarisation that is going on with this discussion, which I repeat, comes from both sides, has contributed to the positive change in this tradition, which is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr. Jetten. Or Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u59	I really think that the CDA should take back those words: "from both sides." There was no violence. There's been police brutality against black activists. And the CDA concludes time and time again that it comes from both sides. It wasn't like that. The CDA has to stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u60	I have seen polarisation and removal on two sides of the discussion in the debate on sintering laas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u61	A fervent plea from Mr Heerma, who earlier argued with Mrs Marijnissen that we should also set up a national historical museum, so that we can learn from each other from the beautiful sides, but also from the dark sides of our history. That is exactly why GroenLinks and D66 are proposing today to consider extensively 150 years of end slavery in our Kingdom in 2023. I have just heard in Mr Heerma's speech that he is curious about the reaction of the cabinet. I am curious about his own reaction and whether the CDA can support such a year of remembrance, in which you can pay extra attention to dialogue and information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u62	I think that the attention of recent years has already been drawn: in 2008 Minister Plasterk said the necessary things at the time of the commemoration and then Deputy Prime Minister Asscher spoke about deep regret and repentance in 2013. I think that the realization that we need to pay more attention to both sides of our history, the positive and the negative sides, can be binding towards the future. It can also lead to a shared type of inclusive patriotism. I'm deeply convinced of that. That is also the reason why, just before the corona crisis broke out, I felt like it was a long time ago, but it was only a few months ago that Mr Marijnissen and I got ahead of it. I see the cabinet doing more. I see today that a dialogue group is being set up. I think that is very good and wise, because it helps to recognise the suffering and also to move towards a common future. I saw this morning that colleagues from GroenLinks and D66 are proposing to have a year of commemoration. I may have covered it up in my term, but I think that's a good idea. I hope the cabinet wants to embrace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u63	That's very nice. I hope the cabinet will hear it and that it will inspire them to respond positively to it later. It is very good that previous Cabinets have expressed deep regret and repentance to acknowledge the suffering and pain of slavery. I think Minister Koolmees repeated it last year. However, there are also a lot of people who say: we should actually go one step further and apologize as the Netherlands, because much of the suffering from slavery continues in our modern society and in the racism that we see every day. Can Mr Heerma imagine that the dialogue committee set up by the cabinet today will ultimately lead to excuses from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u64	I saw in the letter on the dialogue committee that that committee is also working on matters such as the slavery monument and the question of a slavery museum. I think it is very good that social dialogue should be continued and deeper. I myself would like that even more within the National Historical Museum, because that is where the entire history is shown. I think it is very good that it is being discussed in such a dialogue committee. I myself am not convinced of the need to apologize now, after such a long time, 150 years, but what a dialogue committee is going to come up with, we have to wait and see. I also saw today proposals that an apology should now be made by the cabinet. I'm not convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u65	First of all, I think it is a good thing that Mr Heerma is going to see what a dialogue committee like this comes up with. The question of apology comes from a part of Dutch society that says: even if it is 150 years ago, which is perhaps a very long time, we still feel it, because it has worked so long in patterns, in stereotypes and in feelings that we have there, that it would be a relief for us, as a black minority in the Netherlands, if there were excuses. Can Mr Heerma imagine that this group needs it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u66	There are also a lot of people who say: it is especially important to have a respectful dialogue, recognising the suffering, dehumanization and abjection of it. That movement is going on and it's good. I'm not convinced there's an excuse to do that. But that there is a need for deeper dialogue and a deeper perseverance of this perhaps blackest page of our history, I can see that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u67	I would like to thank Mr Heerma for his support for the year of commemoration. That's important. I think we have a majority with that and that is really very nice. The openness he offers is also beautiful. In fact, he says that such a committee might well come out that the Dutch State should apologize; that is open. That's hopeful. I hope that this will lead us to apologise in 2023. Mr Heerma says: I don't need it. I get that. Only, when you speak to people from the Black Lives Matter movement, the descendants of the enslaved, you hear that it is important for many of them to take this formal step. In that sense, it is less relevant if Mr Heerma says that he does not have to. I don't think that's the point. For many people in the Netherlands, it is important that we take that step. Is he willing, even if he doesn't have to, to take that step when he sees that that need is with others?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr Klaver's presentation of my answer to Mr Jetten's question is somewhat creative. The question before us is whether I support the need for this excuse, as the parties put forward here. I'm not convinced of that. So I'm not gonna support that. Now Mr Klaver has not spoken here, so I would first like to listen to his argument. It is said that this would be the only way to acknowledge the suffering. I don't know. I do not see that it is the only way and that, as has been suggested in several interviews, it is necessary to work towards a common future. I don't share that either. I think it is very important that we pay more attention to the black page of history and that we continue to do so. But to ask the cabinet to make a formal apology for that, 150 years after that, I am not convinced, and I do not support that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u69	I have listened and heard Mr Heerma very well. I can see that he also states, in reply to the question about the committee, that the dialogue must be initiated and that he does not exclude that this can indeed be an important step. He is not convinced of this, but he may still be convinced in the near future. I believe that this is important for this debate in a number of things that Mr Heerma says. Addressing institutional racism and the additional steps that the government must take in this regard. That we should have a memorial year. But also that it is important to look at the past together. He mentioned a number of issues in this connection. What I hear is that he is not going to vote for apology today, but that he is also not ruling out that this can eventually be part of the total healing process that you as a society must go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u70	In any case, I think that this broad recognition is necessary in order to build a respectful dialogue with each other, I mentioned the broad political centre, rather than the polarisation in which we increasingly end up in discussions of this kind. I think that's something that's been widely lived in this room. That is why I have also referred to motions and initiatives by all kinds of parties, which show that we are already working on them. What Mr Klaver says for the future, I say too. Hope brings life. Mr Klaver must also have the debate with the cabinet, but I am not convinced of the need and added value of that excuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u71	I hear Mr Heerma say in between that we also have a problem with institutional racism and discrimination. Now he's the party leader of the second largest coalition party. Does this mean that he is also prepared to allocate in the budget capacity, money, resources to combat this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u72	The easiest answer is that some of this has already happened. I have just given credit to Mr Van Weyenberg from D66 for this. I sat at that formation table where we talked about increasing the capacity of the Labour Inspectorate to combat labour market discrimination, and it was Mr Van Weyenberg who always said that it should also be about labour market discrimination. Additional resources have been allocated for this purpose. I would also like to draw attention to the various motions that we are tabling here on a reporting app, together with Mr Van den Berge van GroenLinks. That's gonna cost money, too. So there are all kinds of initiatives that we have supported, which have already been or will be funded, through the choices made by the departments for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr. Chairman. Just before Christmas, I was at the SP headquarters in Amersfoort to pack Christmas packages for the parents who have fallen victim to the name of the IRS. I didn't do that alone. I did that with a lot of SP colleagues, but also with those parents themselves. A group of these parents had gathered and had collected money with an action to finance those packages. Those people have been unjustly accused of fraud and, as a result, entered huge, deep misery. One of the mothers I spoke to there was Nazmiye. We were all standing in line while packing those packages and she told me that she was born in Rotterdam. She's a Dutchman. But when she got those files from the IRS, it kept saying she was Turkish. She said: "I am a Dutchman. I was born in Rotterdam. This was the first time in my life that I felt really discriminated against, and that hurt horribly much." Later, at another time, I spoke to one of those parents. That was Maria. She talked about the now famous black-painted files: those files with all those black-painted pages in them. She said, "That was the first time in my life that I felt black. I felt black when I saw those black-painted files." For two reasons, I quote this example in this debate. I quote it because I think we can learn from it for two reasons. One reason is the negative aspect of this. How can it be that this is done with the Tax - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. Another reason to cite the example is the positive side of it. Precisely because these parents, with a little help from us, have organized themselves, they were able together to raise and fight it and to bring about change. Not only do I find that very inspiring, but it also gives me a lot of hope for the future. I have great respect for those parents and for the way they did it. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is about institutional racism. Does that mean there's racism in our laws? No, thank God. Article 1 of our Constitution has already been mentioned in this debate: discrimination is not allowed. But is it in our society? Yes. I just gave a striking example of that. The protests we see all over the world are impressive. Young people in particular stand up and make a fist against racism, discrimination and exclusion. The only way to do that is if we do it together. If we don't start taking each other's best shot at using a wrong word. If we don't split up on the basis of our skin color, whatever that color is, of the victim and of the perpetrator. Should we replace street signs and destroy statues? That's an actual question. As far as the SP is concerned, we don't do that. We think it is better to discuss the context and history of things with each other much more often. In this light, we are already calling on Mr Heerma to set up a national historical museum. That could be a place and that should be a place where our entire history is told: the beautiful sides, but also the bad sides, from which we have to learn. I think, for example, 1 July is a beautiful day to reflect on the history of slavery in the Netherlands and the abolition of slavery. Such a thing could have a very good place in such a museum. Not to hide it, but just to discuss it. Not to forget, but to learn from it. It is rightly stated that banners and words should not be the only ones. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And that is exactly the problem we have with this cabinet. One action plan after another to tackle racism and discrimination appears. I have included a list: three A4 with all kinds of action programmes and action plans. I will not read them all out. But back a long time ago, the Radar TV programme identified discrimination in the labour market and discrimination by temporary employment agencies. There are temporary employment agencies that simply discriminate to order. "Don't you want a Moroccan? Don't you want a Suriname? That's good, then we'll arrange for you to have someone else." That's unacceptable. Of course, that has been known for a very long time. I myself visited the umbrella organisation of these temporary employment agencies. We've given them the "Discrimination on Order Award." I also asked the best man himself: this is in your organization; what are you going to do about it? I actually got some lame story that it was mostly hard to handle. It was all very difficult. I ask the cabinet what has happened in the meantime. It is happening, so I am curious to see how many fines have been paid to discriminatory temporary employment agencies in the meantime. Mr. Chairman. The best cure for the poison racism and discrimination is to live together. Not a dichotomy, but living together. But in the meantime, we're seeing more and more white and black schools. Even when that might not have been accepted at all as it is today, the SP fought against segregation in schools. It is so important that children go to school together. Now, years on, we have to note that policy on the right has only made these problems worse. We see the emergence of private schools, to name but a few, but also, as it turned out recently, schools that work with a system that allows rich, highly educated, often white parents to have their children in the best, most popular schools. So this has nothing to do with going to school together anymore. I would therefore like to ask the cabinet for a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u75	My question concerns Mrs Marijnissen's previous point. She is quite right to be angry at the discriminatory requests that temporary employment agencies cooperated with. In the debate that followed, D66 and CDA tabled a motion that says: this can no longer be done, that must stop. That motion was also supported by the SP. The SP asks what happened after that. That's that the cabinet is now working on a bill. That bill, I understand, lies with the Council of State and comes to the Chamber. This will ensure that these temporary employment agencies can be more actively monitored by the Labour Inspectorate for their participation. But the Secretary of State, I must say, 'the outgoing Secretary of State', because we have just said goodbye to her successor in the Chamber. I believe that this obligation to notify should be laid down in that law and that it is necessary in order to be able to act properly. Does the SP share that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u76	You mean a duty of reporting discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u77	A notification requirement for temporary employment agencies receiving discriminatory requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u78	Sure. Yeah, sure. I would like to put a question to the cabinet. We understand that it is already with the Council of State. Then what's taking so long? Yes, there are practical problems, but we ourselves have already presented a plan with a number of concrete points on how to tackle discrimination in the labour market. As far as we are concerned, such a hotline is certainly part of that, but think also of working with fines, which is very important, and a licence requirement for temporary employment agencies. Now the so-called 'free sector' means very little when a temporary agency is out of line. There must therefore be a licence requirement so that we can deal with these temporary employment agencies when they cross the line. We are thinking of mystery guests, so that we can really prove in practice that things are going wrong. We have all kinds of proposals in this plan to tackle discrimination in the labour market. We hope the cabinet will work on that. Mr. Chairman. All the way to the end, if you'll allow me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u79	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u80	It can be very short, you know. It is a good thing that we are talking about this subject, not by taking measures or by not saying anything on the basis of your skin colour, but by telling each other stories, by listening to each other and by making a joint fight against all forms of racism, discrimination and exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u82	Madam President. After George Floyd's death in the United States, the world seems to have gone crazy. After the coronavirus, there seems to be a hysterical discrimination virus on the globe. In the United States, entire police forces are being replaced. We see left-wing anti-fascists who, along with the trained black lives Matter Marxists, are guilty of violence, looting and arsonists. I even saw images of white people... I suspect the spirits of Jetten and Asscher... who were full of surrender... the shoes on the pillow of their black fellow citizens. And here in Amsterdam there were demonstrations where Mr Akwasi Owusu Ansah showed himself. A few quotes from his now notorious speech. I quote: "Don't fuck with me anymore, don't hold back. Black Pete's going to see his whore mom later. There's no time to talk. It's a rebellion. Take risks." And "The moment I see a heavy one in November, I personally kick his face." Mr. Chairman. This descendant of the Ghanaian Ashanti tribe of black slave traders thus announced gross violence. I immediately thought: now the police will prepare pre-printed declaration forms everywhere. But no, nothing happened. Akwasi was allowed to come in an ultra-left NPO program to explain that he didn't mean it all to be. Mr. Chairman. Despite the presence of scum called Akwasi, the Netherlands is one of the most tolerant countries in the world. Only idiots distinguish on skin color and most Dutch people have no problem with what colour your skin has. And that's a good thing. There have been incidents, but in the end only 123 discriminatory facts were submitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u83	First of all, I find it really scandalous how you speak of Akwasi, an artist, and that you use these words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u84	Scumbag it is. Scumbag!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u85	We're used to that from you, but I want to say here that I really don't think it's a pass and I think it's scandalous. Mr. Wilders, you say people who look at skin color are idiots. That's interesting. I have the feeling that you are doing so all the time. You are talking about the demonstration in Amsterdam and how terrible that was, but I saw people with mouth caps in all those demonstrations, who kept their distance as good as they were, but did not use violence. And it was outrageous and the mayor of the capital should be gone, because it was absolutely impossible. Then there was a demonstration of white people here in The Hague. There were soccer hooligans and they beat things up. And Mr. Wilders had the biggest talk about the wrong action by the police. He would have acted too hard. This can't be! He had a big mouth about not allowing these people to demonstrate. And Mr. Wilders claims he doesn't look at skin color? I think the only idiot here is Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u86	Well, Mr President, let me deal with both points. The first is Mr Akwasi. I really don't think it's worth describing that the leader of the Group of the Green Left is standing up for someone who says that if he meets someone playing Black Pete in November, he'll kick him personally. That's violence, and that has nothing to do with art. That has to do with violence. Maybe that's in your sphere of Marxists who grew up with gross violence and anarchy, normal, but... After all, this is where the communist part of GroenLinks comes from. You come from the tradition of Marxism and Violence. You may understand that, but I predict that a lot of Dutch people don't understand and call such a man scum, who Ghanees says that Black Pete should be kicked on his face. That's how I answered it. Then there is the second part, Madam President. Of course, I didn't record it for those soccer hooligans. I have said for about all the cameras here that it is absolutely right that the police should deal with those soccer hooligans. But I also said that it was unfair and I find it inconceivable that a motion from me was rejected yesterday saying: equal monks, equal hoods, not double standards. You cannot allow a demonstration in Amsterdam that is contrary to all the rules and where there is also a call for violence, and here in The Hague, but also in Eindhoven, prohibit people from demonstrating against the Prime Minister's policy. That's unfair. That's double standards. It is precisely a cabinet that must ensure that people who demonstrate against their policies are placed in the front row when it comes to allowing demonstrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u87	The only person measuring double standards here is Mr Wilders. I've seen in all those Black Lives Matter protests nobody give group hugs and ignore directions from the police. That happened here and the police intervened on it. They didn't look at skin color, they looked at behavior. The way in which Mr Wilders speaks here makes it seem that he wants to favour some people. Mr Wilders is the only one here to measure with double standards. And we know that from him, but he's trying to wrap it up in the way he's trying to put everyone else, including the mayors in the country and the colleagues here in the House of Representatives, into the shoes of double standards. You do this because the way you talk about black demonstrators is completely different from that of white demonstrators. And let's at least be perfectly clear: everyone in this country can demonstrate, everyone. In doing so, they have to abide by the rules. Mayors have a responsibility to see if a demonstration can continue and under what conditions. That's where the responsibility lies, not here. But please, Mr. Wilders, the way I've seen you tweet about how the police here acted at a demonstration... if mistakes have been made, it needs to be investigated, but you stand up for hooligans. That's what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u88	You act more like a hooligan, like a political hooligan. There's that political hooligan, Madam President. I've never recorded it for hooligans, and I've never talked about a demonstration of black people. Where did you hear me say that? These are just fat dirty lies from the group chairman of GroenLinks. Give me one quote in which I talked about black protesters! I never put that word in my mouth. I talked about one person, Mr Akwasi Owusu Ansah, a gentleman with family from Ghana, black slave traders, who now says: when I see a Black Piet in November, I personally kick it on his face. And that's scum. That's violence. That's not art, that's violence. And again, for the demonstrations: equal monks, equal hoods. The fact was that demonstrations were banned by the mayor in Eindhoven and The Hague, while the mayor in Eindhoven allowed demonstrations of anti-racist protesters. He even said to the police, "Slow down, slow down." This is to the great fury of the police union itself. But there were no demonstrations anywhere else. The demonstration in The Hague you're talking about, Mr. Klaver, was first forbidden. It was not allowed; it was forbidden. And I don't want to live in a country where you can demonstrate if you're against racism or if you're like the Prime Minister for abolishing Black Piet, but you can't demonstrate if you're resisting cabinet policy. That's not how we got married. We don't measure with double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr Wilders says that we do not measure with double standards. Except when it comes to Muslims, for Mr Wilders even wants to change the law. He has nothing to do with Article 1 of the Constitution. He really wants to be able to offend on the basis of Article 7. If there is one reason why many people in society feel discriminated against, that is Mr Wilders. I wonder where Mr Wilders' obsession always comes from to turn on these people, to treat people with migration and asylum seekers racistally. Why does Mr Wilders do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u90	We don't have any problems with Muslims. We have problems with Islam. That's our problem. As PVV, we are actually established as the ultimate anti-racism party, as the ultimate anti-discrimination party. There is no party in the Netherlands that does more against discrimination than the PVV. That's why I founded the PVV. Why? I'll explain that to you. Because there is no more discriminatory ideology in the world than Islam. Islam is discrimination. When it comes to Christians, when it comes to Jews, when it comes to apostates who need to be murdered, when it comes to anyone who is not Muslim... I can list you a list of what is in the Koran and how it is still applied in countries where Islam is dominant. Then Islam is the ultimate discrimination. So a fight against Islam is a fight against discrimination. That's a fight for freedom and equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u91	How is it that there is the greatest advocate of discrimination and racism here and that the judge has had him twice in the dock? This Geert Wilders has been to court twice, twice because it's about what he says he wants to fight. The first time he's just been acquitted and the second time he's just convicted. So here's a bandit. There's a criminal here. 'Cause that's what you are when you're convicted by the criminal. How can he insist that he is the greatest advocate of racism and discrimination? For for the rest, no one here in the Chamber except Geert Wilders, because he treats migrants and Muslims unequally. He really needs to stop thinking that this is about Islam. He is indeed concerned with Muslims, and they are flesh and blood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u92	Well, it's really about Islam. Again... That's right, you're right. I've been in court many times. Hopefully not, but perhaps many more will follow. But I keep telling you, Moroccans are not a race, Moroccans are a nationality. Belgians aren't a race either. That has nothing to do with racism. No Dutchman will understand that if someone says anything or asks a question about fewer Belgians, he is a racist. It doesn't make any sense. Again, Islam, Islam itself, is discriminatory to the bone. They call Jews monkeys. They don't call them trustworthy. They call them liars, dishonest, incorrigible. They call them filthy. I won't mention all the suras and verses, but that's what Islam stands for. Islam stands for discrimination against everything that is not Islamic. That's what you see in every country where Islam is dominant and you unfortunately see it in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, you can also see it in the Netherlands. So what we are doing is not fighting Muslims, but fighting Islam. This makes the PVV the largest anti-discrimination movement in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr... Did you guys trade? Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u94	As long as Mr Wilders is in politics on his own and the PVV, I hear this story: the Islam. I'm still confused. This is finally my chance to ask Mr Wilders exactly what he means by that. Islam is based on the Qur'an. That's a book. It's not the book that gets funding from unfree countries into our mosques. It's not the book that grabs his stuff and travels to Syria to do horrible deeds. It is not Islam that causes people who have a different faith or perspective to be set on fire or beheaded in areas of violence. It's people who do this. Where they get their inspiration, whether that's religion from Islam or another perspective, it's about people's behavior. If Mr. Wilders says "they" "they" cause oppression, "they" create discrimination" - who is the "they" in this case? You say you have nothing against Muslims, but with the word "they" you suggest that you point to people rather than to a book.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u95	Of course, it's not just about behavior. Don't talk such complete nonsense. It's not just about behavior. Of course, it's what inspired people to their behavior. Have you not seen what the perpetrators have been calling for in about all terrorist attacks in Europe in recent years? That they do that for Allah? That they're doing that for Muhammad? That that's their inspiration? Haven't you seen what inspired the Islamic State? Have you not seen where these strange and crazy imams here in The Hague draw their inspiration, why do they think that there should be hard action and people should be seen as inferior? That's where the anti-Semitism comes from. That didn't fall out of the sky. That's not the behavior of the Muslims alone. That is the inspiration, the inspiration that is found in the Qur'an, the one in the Hadith, the one in the Sira, which is everywhere. The life of Muhammad, one of the greatest slave traders in his Medina era we have ever known at that time. These are the inspirations, the example for 1.5 billion Muslims in the world. Fortunately, not all Muslims keep to that and fortunately there are many moderate Muslims. Yeah, I'm glad. But the inspiration comes from the holy book, through Muhammad's life. For every country, Mr. El Yassini, every country where Islam is dominant is an unfree country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u96	This is where Mr Wilders flies off the bend. He indicates that it is people who are inspired by what he then calls an ideology, a faith. But then it seems as if he frees these same people who preach hatred and sow death and destruction because it has to do with the book. Isn't it about the fact that when a person does something, an individual does something, where he gets the inspiration, where he gets the assignments, where he bases his values, you have to go hard on him if he breaks the law? When someone makes a call in a video that proposes to circumcise women, you have to go hard on them. The moment someone's trying to recruit people for jihad abroad, you have to kick their ass. But the moment they say it is Islam, it seems that Mr Wilders is exonerating the wrongdoing of these people. I am watching because it is about protecting our inhabitants, our 17 million Dutch people, who also want to feel free. This means that the people responsible for their behaviour must be dealt with. So I hope that Mr Wilders will take a different course and look at the behaviour of individuals rather than very easily shouting about a book that does not move without the intervention of human hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u97	No, Mr President, it is precisely Mr Yassini who exonerates people. He's totally wrong. He hasn't eaten any cheese from what Islam stands for. You haven't eaten any cheese, Mr. Yassini. You can sit like a sheep laughing. I'm glad you're not a sheep, but it's not fun. Look again what those words from the Koran mean in practice for the people here in the Netherlands. I told you, Sura 2, verse 65: Jews are apes, they can't be trusted. Sura 2, verse 120: they're liars, they're dishonest, they're causing war, they're filthy. What does that mean? I don't know if you've ever looked at Professor Koopmans' research. Professor Koopmans investigated it a few years ago. He's been looking at what it means to what people think. It's not just what people do, it's what people think. What does that mean? Professor Koopmans found that 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands found that Sharia laws go above the secular laws. 70% of the 1 million Muslims in the Netherlands thought Sharia was above the law. 40% of Muslims in the Netherlands found that Jews are unreliable. 47% of Muslims in the Netherlands found and felt that they should not and do not want to have homosexual friends. 55% of Muslims want to return to original Islam. Those aren't behaviors. Those are ideas. They're very dangerous. They don't belong in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u98	I could also go on for an hour in this interrupting debate, but this is the greyened record we do know. At the moment, I think hundreds, perhaps thousands of young people are looking at a Second Chamber debate for the first time in their lives, because they have been on the streets for the first time in their lives to demonstrate, because, as Mr Wilders just said in an interruption debate with Mr Heerma, they are not judged at all by what they can do, but by their colour or by their last name. They notice that when they are rejected for internships, if they are not invited to a job interview at all, if they hear wrong jokes every time they go to school that have to do with their skin colour or their last name. That is why I would like to know very specifically from Mr Wilders the following. Today, proposals have been put forward for a hotline against discrimination in temporary employment agencies, for fines for brokers who promise only white tenants, for a state committee to investigate institutional racism, concrete proposals for which thousands of young people have been on the streets in recent weeks. Can the PVV, who is supposedly the champion in the fight against discrimination and racism, support these proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u99	We will not support any of these strange proposals, with conviction. For two reasons. The first reason is that, again, discrimination in the Netherlands is not bad at all. As I have already said, 95% of the Dutch believe that immigrants are fully involved. This is from European value research. We score the highest in all of the European Union. That's something you should appeal to. 95% of people like immigrants as friends. We have 17.5 million people in this country. Last year there were 123 people over 123, don't get me wrong, reports to the Public Prosecutor's Office ended up on a population of 17,5 million. Discrimination in the Netherlands is not bad. Another reason why I will not support these motions is that you all close your eyes to the discrimination against Dutch people. Why don't you come up with some motions about discrimination against native Dutch people? I have just said it in an interrupting debate with Mr Asscher. When it comes to the priority of social housing, they're at the back of the line. 80,000 homes went to the people who came from asylum-seekers' centres. When it comes to care, they have to pay big, big. Maybe even next year's health insurance will be doubled by corona, while asylum seekers will not have to pay contributions and get everything for free. When it comes to jobs, the government's position is that you can even get preferential treatment at the moment. That's what you call positive discrimination, that they get priority on equal fitness. What a sick country, which we call discrimination against indigenous people today positive. I can continue for another hour: positive discrimination, asylum seekers with homes, health care. Why don't you come up with some suggestions about native Dutch people? You'll find me on your side. In a situation where discrimination is going well, where it is not excessive, where we are one of the most tolerant countries in Europe, how can I put it nicely with your motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u100	Then Mr Wilders really missed the crux of the last few weeks, of the demonstrations of Black Lives Matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u101	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u102	It is not a question of whether all Dutch people are racists or not. It is a question of whether there are patterns in our society that sometimes lead to unconsciously and sometimes consciously against discrimination and racism, so you do not get the same opportunities as other Dutch people do. We are not talking about foreigners or asylum seekers, which Mr Wilders comes up with every time; we are talking about boys and girls born in the Netherlands who happen to have Surinamese, Antillean or other origins and who do not have the same opportunities for internships, for the best education, for the one job or for the rental home, because there is insane racism in our systems. I would ask Mr Wilders again: what message does he have, as the so-called champion of anti-racism in this Chamber, to those thousands of young people who are now watching this debate and those of politics want to know what we are going to do in concrete terms not just to be a tolerant country in their feelings, but so that these people can experience it every day if they just want to have a chance at education, a job or a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u103	My message is that you can achieve anything in the Netherlands. You can do anything. My message is also that you should not be fooled by people like you that discrimination in the Netherlands is bad, because it is pure scare-making. You put the Dutch in the wrong corner and you are wrong and stigmatizing. Of course, if people are wrongly discriminated against, the PVV also thinks that this is bad. We're against discrimination, but then you go to the police and then you report it. If you want to go for a job and you're discriminated against based on what I know, your color or whatever, and you can prove that that employer does that for that reason, report it. I hope that they will do so and that they will actually be condemned. Real discrimination must be tackled. I wasn't finished with my answer. In recent days, we have seen a number of people in different newspapers who also show the opposite. I would like to mention three, to point out that it is not just me who feels that it is not so bad for discrimination in the Netherlands. We saw an interview in Trouw with a basketball player, Michael, from the United States, who says: "My view of white people has changed since I played professional basketball in the Netherlands. I felt hatred in the United States, but Dutch people love black people." I have seen in De Telegraaf a piece by the journalist Wierd Duk about a black Brazilian family who has lived in the Netherlands for 15 years and who said: we have only seen two racist incidents in those 15 years; I simply do not see it, that racism. The third one, the trend watcher Mr. Bakas, we all know him. White people have always helped me move forward. If you're misappreciated here, get the hell out of here. He says: my mother always said "Without the Netherlands we would have been poor; live colonialism, live the Dutch, live slavery." I do not want to go that far, Madam President, but I would just like to point out that the story of people who sometimes live here for ten or fifteen years is totally contrary to that hysteria of it all going wrong, we are all pathetic and we all need hotlines, days and excuses. Get out!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u104	Because we are already doing better in the Netherlands than in other countries and because there are good examples, that's a reason for Mr Wilders to say to thousands of Dutch people who do run into racism and discrimination every day: figure it out, fight it out, the PVV won't stick a finger for you anymore. But I am going to take one more attempt to get Mr Wilders behind a concrete proposal today. He has now said a few times in this debate that there have been 170 or so issues about racism and discrimination. We know from Jewish organisations, from gay organisations, from black organisations that Dutch people who run against racism and discrimination do not report at all, because they know from experience that nothing is done about it, that the perpetrators are not adequately tracked, that it does not lead to legal proceedings, that it does not lead to the conviction of those offenders. That is why my very specific question to Mr Wilders is: does he agree with me that it would be very sensible to appoint special anti-discrimination detectives so that we can deal more effectively with Jew hatred, homo-hate, hatred of blacks and hatred of Muslims, so that reports lead to lawsuits and which lead to the conviction of the perpetrators?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u105	You are right: if you really want to be effective in filing the complaint and prosecuting it, then you must have a PVV'er. If you're going to press charges against a PVV guy, like I've been through, then there's CDA mayors leading the scenes in Nijmegen and then handing out coffee and pastries, then there's 5,000 to 6,000 returns, then there's always a VVD minister, like Opstelten, who sends his officials to prosecute you. Then it's not a problem. Mr Jetten is right about that. Indeed, it is not easy for everyone. But, you know, people can file a report, and that seems to me to be more than enough. That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u106	Mr Wilders said on a question from Mr Jetten that he did not support any of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u107	Well, not from what I've heard. I don't know if there's going to be any interesting proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u108	Look. But in the debate on the interruption with Mr Asscher in his first term, just now also with Mr Jetten and last week on television, he indicated what he also repeated here that the problem of racism and discrimination in the Netherlands is much less than proposed. That's his position. But if that happens, then action must be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u109	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u110	He just said: if you are discriminated against, if you are the victim of hatred, then there must also be a conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u111	Well, at least be filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u112	In this context, how does he look at Mr Segers' proposal that in the case of hatred and discrimination there should also be a grounds for increased sanctions? That proposal seems to me to be in line with what Mr Wilders is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u113	No. No. Get out of here with all this crazy shit. You can all come here with all these crazy proposals, but stop it. We have no problem with discrimination in the Netherlands. Punishment or a memorial day or even a year of slavery in 2023 and apologize for that: stop! Come up with a ground for punishment about the Dutchman who is discriminated against. The CDA weeps with the wolves in the woods. Like it's a big problem here and like we all have to deal with it. Don't give me any more of those grounds for indemnification. No need for anything! You can just press charges. That's really good. Anyone who is discriminated against: that is what we are opposed to. We support anyone who is truly discriminated against. In the end, it's only 123 cases that went beyond feelings and came to the state's attorney's office. We hope that something will happen, because real discrimination must be tackled. But we're not going to introduce a criminal law enforcement ground for 123 cases at the D.A.'s office, are we? Are you still out of your mind? 123 cases joined the D.A.'s office last year. On the 17.5 million people 123 fell, and then a criminal grounds? Think about what you're saying!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mr Wilders is right that, as all international reports indicate, the willingness to report is one of the problems, precisely because it is virtually never condemned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u115	I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u116	But Mr Wilders is even very much opposed to Mr Segers' proposal to take care of something that Mr Wilders repeatedly speaks of. That would not, by the way, be a burden of punishment which only applies to non-Dutch people. That is what Mr Wilders is suggesting here. He's not willing to do that. But is he at least willing, if he really feels so bad when there is hatred and discrimination, not to adapt the law to that? Because the PVV has repeatedly stated that they want to take things like hate-sowing and gang-enduing out of the law. But how does that relate to Mr Wilders' argument that he is against discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u117	That's great. Because in this proposal we have made before, which has never been dealt with here in the end, we have also left out the provisions on anti-discrimination: not only Article 90c criminal law on discrimination but also Article 137d on discrimination, 137e on the prohibition of discriminatory statements, 137f on the granting of aid to discriminatory activities, 137g on the prohibition of intentional discrimination in the exercise of a profession or business, on application or otherwise. It is true that there is hatred, but it still contains discrimination. So that is entirely in line with our initiative, which unfortunately never made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mr Klaver and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u119	In fact, there is cause for optimism when I hear Mr Wilders screaming, because institutional racism does not exist. That's the thesis. That would be great news. But then I have a very simple question. How come the House of Representatives is so white? How come the cabinet is so white? How come the media are so white? How is it that there is so little diversity on the boards of directors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u120	I remember that I was campaigning in the Hague Market during last year's campaign, in my view before the municipal elections. I was shaking people's hands then. That was a lot of fun. They were very friendly people. In the end there were also a lot of colored ones, blacks, I don't know if that's the right word to me. They gave me a hand and they really liked it. Fortunately, there were a lot of PVV sympathizers. I finally left with the DKDB afterwards, to a certain place. Coincidentally, on the same day, the Green Left Congress was on the same day that I was on that market. I've never seen a meeting like the GroenLinks Congress. In that whole row, I think there were three women left. For the rest, they were just white men, just white men. So I think you're the very last person here to teach me the lesson with your cream white, with your cream white... can I do it again? With your cream-white GroenLinks party you are the last person to teach me the lesson, also through the Lower House, because there is no party whiter than GroenLinks in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u121	Then I'll go to... no, Mr. Clover. We have... no, nothing a point of order. Mr. Klaver, we agreed on six questions. You asked six questions. The same goes for everyone, including you. I'm not gonna interfere with the content. I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr Wilders has been presented with all kinds of proposals and plans and has wiped them off the table with a broad gesture. He doesn't see anything in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u123	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u124	He has referred a few times to Black Pete as something very innocent, something very small, a small element in our living together. Living together is the art of accommodating, of living and letting live. I know that it evokes a lot of emotion in the PVV group, but the reverse also evokes a lot of emotion in people who have dark skin color and who experience the period before 5 December as a painful period. Is it too much to ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u125	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u126	Is it really hard...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u127	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u128	... to settle a little bit, to consider each other a little bit and to spare each other a little bit in a country where we have to live with diversity and differences and give each other a little bit of space?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u129	We will never, never ever, ever distance ourselves from Black Piet. We have tabled an initiative proposal here in the Chamber, which my colleague Mr Bosma did and also defended in order to keep Black Piet. So don't ask me if we're gonna distance ourselves from Black Piet. Although I am the last of the Mohicans, although I am the last to turn out the lights in the Netherlands, we are and we remain for Black Piet. It can't be, all that cultural relativism, all that diving and all that admitting? We are now going to a country in the Netherlands where you, if you do but Islamic holidays... that I have to say this to a Christian politician! If you're talking about the Ramadan or the eiftar... there's the Minister of Justice. He was visiting the eiftar, with all deep bends out of respect. You can do all that! That's all right, and ministers can go over there. But if you're talking about Christmas, you've got to be careful at school these days, Mr. Segers, if you can put down a Christmas tree and if Santa Claus can wear a cross on his miter. Mr Asscher once, when he was alderman in Amsterdam ten or fifteen years ago; yes, I remember making sure that that cross went off from that miter of Stinterklaas in Amsterdam. Surely it cannot be that we in the Netherlands are going to give up our Black Piet, which is nothing, nothing, nothing racist, nothing at all, that we are going to send ministers to eiftars and that we are throwing away our own Black Piet? You should be ashamed of yourself as a Christian politician to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u130	I have quite a bit of a sense of creeds and articles of faith. But Black Pete doesn't belong to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u131	Well, it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u132	I have quite a bit of an understanding of the core of Christianity and Christian culture. But Santa Claus and Black Piet don't belong to that. It's a kids' party. I'm just looking at the development I've been through myself. I never associated it with racism in my youth. It was indeed an innocent children's party, and I enjoyed it. It wasn't the activists who convinced me. It was churchmates and partymates who told me their story: boy, that period before that is really painful, for our children and for ourselves, and we are not going to the entrance. I think the Prime Minister himself has just told us how he has changed. Why? Because you're just looking someone in the eye. A very ordinary, normal fellow says, "I'm in pain." I'm really trying to get it, but I honestly don't understand why this is an article of faith. I'm not talking about the eiftar. I'm not talking about Islamic holidays. I'm not talking about Christianity at all. I'm talking about a kids' party...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u133	It's our holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u134	...where it, instead... it's not an article of faith, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u135	No. But believe or not, these are our...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u136	Mr Segers!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u137	It's instead of putting black shoe polish on your cheek. Where's the emotion? I'm really trying to get it. And why is that my last question is so difficult to take into account a very small amount of people who say to Mr Wilders and to me: I am in pain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u138	Should I now explain in the Dutch parliament that I am for Black Piet? It's really the reverse world. Black Piet belongs to the Netherlands! That is part of the Netherlands, not the eiftars and I know anything. And whether it's religious or not, it's a piece of our cultural identity. Saint Nicholas and Black Piet: it may not be a religious feast, but it is a celebration that is part of our national cultural identity. I want to hold on to that. It already goes way too much to the eiftars and all other shit events. I want to stick to our own traditions. Sinterklaas is a tradition and Black Piet is part of it. It is a shame that the Prime Minister at the end of the debate when was it? A few weeks ago, I said, "Well, I've been thinking, and throw Black Piet in the trash can." He said it, I think, a little more diplomatic, but I think that's what it came down to. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Black Pete must stay. We're not gonna throw away all our traditions to accommodate the sensitive spirits on the other hand. No way. It is your right to do so, but at least we will not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u139	One last try. I have just had a debate on anti-Semitism and the fight for the protection of the Jewish community. Earlier this week, we were discussing the protection of freedom of religion and of privacy when it comes to integration law. There are values, elements in our culture that are invincible, that are sacred, that I will defend until my last breath. That is also Mr Wilders' freedom. I'll always defend it. Then it's also about freedom to say what he wants to say. But I honestly don't get it. I honestly don't get it at this time. People tell their stories. I'm not talking about all kinds of activists shouting terrible things at ends. I'm just talking about a very simple man or woman, 40 or 50 years old, standing before Mr Wilders and saying, "Joh, it's really painful. It mostly hurts my kids. And it hurts me because it hurts the kids. It is a painful time." Why, then, should Mr Wilders defend this with the same fanaticism, with the same drive, with the words: even if I were the last of the Mohicans? He is indeed the last person to defend Black Piet with a Black Piet outfit somewhere in a corner of Black Piet. Why? Why? Defend the real freedoms. I'll be right next to you. But just take a little thought out of people when they say, "I'm in pain."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u140	I take into account, Mr Segers, with all those people in the Netherlands, you believe me: there are millions more who are in pain because they have to bow down to Black Piet. There are. That's millions in the Netherlands. He doesn't mention you, but I'll call him. There are people in pain. They're having a great children's party and they've been through it themselves. They don't mean anything discriminatory with Black Piet. And now because of some hysteria about discrimination and racism, they have to throw their Black Piet in the trash. Those people are in pain, too. I stand up for those people and our cultural traditions. It's not religiously meant, but Santa Claus is sacred to the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the Dutch should not allow themselves to be challenged by all those vile people, those link-liberal types full of white self-hatred who have pushed the Netherlands over the past decades the mass immigration, the multicultural society and the discriminatory, racist Islam down the throat and do not tolerate any criticism of it. Because of this, Dutch people have become strangers in their own country, their own city and in their own street and are now afraid to express their disgust and concern about it, because they are then called racist, because they are then accused of discrimination. But Dutch are not racists. They want to preserve their traditions and their cultural identity, which are slowly disappearing due to that mass immigration and open borders, by now also using Prime Minister Rutte to turn their backs on Black Piet. I told you in an interruption: Christmas trees are no longer allowed, Easter is already called a spring feast by some and oh woe if you take the word "mourhead," "nigger kiss" or "white" in your mouth without malicious intentions, or if you make a joke, like Johan Derksen did; then the world is too small. The world is too small. Then those delicate hypocritical souls come out of all those cowardly villains with their lifted fingers, boycotts and threats. You hypocrites! Importing Islam and having hundreds of mosques built, but not to mention that this life-threatening ideology hates non-Muslims, Christians and Jews and describes them as monkeys and pigs, liars, unreliable and filthy. It's all in the Koran. However, name tags want to change and dishonor statues, but not the fact that black Africans and Muslims themselves were big slave traders and kidnapped people far away in Europe to make them Christian slaves. And to this day, in large parts of the Middle East, including the Islamic Gulf States and Saudi Arabia, slaves and people are still being abused and detained and their passports seized. People who, for example, work in Qatar in preparation for the World Cup in a few years' time, are being abused there and women are being raped. Hypocrites, because they are silent about the discrimination against native Dutch people: women avoid neighborhoods and streets out of fear of being called a whore or sexually assaulted, homosexuals are beaten up and Jews no longer dare to use a yarmulke on the street. Has the Prime Minister ever looked at Searched? All immigrants stealing, robbing and smashing up natives. They never catch each other, they always catch us. 100% discrimination! Mr. Prime Minister, invite those native Dutch victims of that violence to the Tower or at the Catshuis for a conversation instead of those people of Black Lives Matter and Kick Out Black Piet. And why is there no mention of the disadvantage of all those Dutch people with rental homes and care? I have just said it all, Mr President, about native Dutchmen, the heroes who made our country great before politically correct the Netherlands destroyed it. And now they're taking us by measure. How dare they! The Dutch are not racists and we don't let anyone talk to us, by anyone. If you're unhappy here, or if you want to push through your mind, I say, "If you don't like it, go to another country." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u143	Thank you. I shall now suspend for two minutes and then we shall continue with the rest of the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u144	I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My contribution will be slightly different from that of Mr Wilders. Mr. Chairman. Today is July 1st. A special day, because we commemorate a low point in what people can do to others: systematically trading as cattle, dehumanization, purely for money, commonly called "slavery." It is more necessary than ever for this dark period in history to be recognised. We have been asking for formal excuses from the government for years and we are pleased that more and more parties are supporting it. We will also table that motion today. DENK also wants Ketikoti to be established as an official day off and that we are more honest in teaching about our past. We must be aware that the superiority thinking, the racism and the backwardness of that time continue to work in our institutions. When it comes to institutional racism, part of the Netherlands is still in denial. I understand that. To hide and deny as long as possible for fear of admitting that there is something really wrong in society. And that something really needs to change. Because the moment you decide and pronounce it, it's really there. In 2013, the National Ombudsman said that the political climate in the Netherlands, in The Hague, is racist in nature. In recent years, we have seen one UN report after another on the weak attitude of the Dutch government to racism. The Netherlands does not do enough to protect people of color. Amnesty International withdraws year in, year out on the bell. Control Alt Delete does nothing else. Where's that sense of urgency? Where's the strength for action? Why not recognise and empathy with people marginalized by the system? We put that away behind that uncomfortable truth. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has established that 4.5 million people suffer from exclusion. But for the Prime Minister, institutional racism is a tiresome sociological concept. I heard him say it myself. How does he get it out of his mouth? What does that monster of institutional racism look like? Institutional racism is Fatma, Dulce, Ahmed and Genet and all the other victims who have been discriminated against by the Tax Office for eight years. Institutional racism is Mitch Henriquez, who was killed by an agent and whose family has to fight for recognition and to fight the pain. Institutional racism is that you want to introduce postcode racism, that you want to punish people from disadvantaged areas twice as much because you think you're going to help them with that. It is sneaky to be excluded on the basis of part of your identity, put away, demonized because of your origins. We see it happening everywhere. And to say as Prime Minister: there is no extra policy and there is no need for additional measures... not to dare say that there is institutional racism... here is the man who has been Prime Minister of this country for ten years. A prime minister who has fought the corona crisis, has given it direction. I almost feel sorry for him for the way he's fighting the racism crisis. He's acting helpless, and he actually deserves an Oscar for this, and he shifts it off to society. He's acting like he has no idea. If he had fought the corona crisis as he fights racism, half of the Netherlands would be on ice. I come to one conclusion, and that's that it's unwillingness. It is sheer unwillingness to tackle it, to fight it as a top priority. We can't afford to trivialize the problem anymore, to talk it out of it. Institutional racism is present. It's a fact and it's just in our society. We see the streets are filled. The people on the street want to see action. We cannot solve racism in the Netherlands with the way of thinking it has caused. We need a radically different approach. The institutions in which bias and exclusion occur must take care of the broom. Mr. Chairman. It's time we turned it around. Instead of letting individual victims fight against the institutions that exclude them, DENK proposes that institutions on the front should show that they are not discriminated against and that they are inclusive. Reversal of the burden of proof, as in the United Kingdom. It is time for us to see in the budget a proposal from the government on how these additional resources are organized. Additional capacity and extra commitment to combat racism and discrimination, with settleable goals. It is time for a national coordinator to combat racism and discrimination, who, together with a team of discrimination, monitors racism and hunts and settles the government. DENK also wants a broom to be fetched by the wrong apps of the police organization. How long are we gonna accept that cops are talking about "kutafricans" and "pauperallochtones"? We need to stop risk profiles. Stop forms need to be introduced and diversity training for agents needs to be stepped up. Racism is not a problem of the individual, but of all of us, of society. To anyone who suffers from it: join hands and stand up for your rights! Only if we stand up for each other's pain can we change something. Mr President, the ball is in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mrs Marijnissen and then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan was just standing here and then he had a whole stack of motions and proposals that DENK has tabled against discrimination. He also mentions a lot of them now. I would like to return with him to the debate he had just had with Mr Asscher about the videos that DENK makes and has put online. Videos in which people's representatives in the Dutch parliament are not addressed in their political ideas but in their background. The names have just been mentioned. They are people with a foreign surname, who are addressed by DENK in this way. There's a name for that: it's called ethnic profiling. I actually thought that was exactly what Mr Azarkan and DENK said they hated it so much. In a previous debate, Mr Azarkan said that he wanted to apologize. I just heard him talk about excuses on another level. I wonder if he is prepared to do so to those Members of Parliament concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u148	Having the guts to ask me here about what is going on in society, namely institutional racism... Mr President, her colleague did that three weeks ago. Mrs Marijnissen, who likes the racist caricature of Zwarte Piet by the way, she said in a tweet that she can; she likes Black Piet during Carnival, because then everyone gets caught up in it. Her colleague did so, Mrs Leijten. Then there was a whole bunch of bumps. Mr Segers has already done it once during an education debate. Mr President, I have often held myself responsible on this point. I indicated that this happened a few years ago. I've indicated that I'm not okay with that. I would suggest that Mrs Marijnissen should repeat the resolutions of that debate. It says exactly how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u149	Then let that be exactly what I've done. Mr Azarkan said he was willing to apologize. After that, the MPs who are concerned with this ominous attack by DENK have heard nothing. Mr Azarkan can get very angry with me and use very big words, such as "the dirty guts," big words that the gentlemen drop today anyway, but the point is that DENK is guilty of what it itself criticises. I checked those Acts. In fact, I've been watching the debate. I heard what you said. You would apologize and those MPs said: we still haven't heard from Mr Azarkan. So either you're standing here talking to a nice anti-racism and anti-discrimination story, but you're not prepared to apologize, or you don't put on big pants and apologize today, because I think those people have waited long enough for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u150	This flattened path now looks really bald and dry, because this has been tried a number of times with me. I get the impression that Mrs Marijnissen is talking a bit like a drunken cucumber. I've been very clear about this. Mrs Marijnissen concludes that I have spoken about this in a way that she says I should apologize. I've already done that. I said I was sorry and I didn't like it. I've already reported that. So you didn't read the Acts properly. You can continue to do so, but I believe that today we are going to work together on institutional racism. You can take the measure, you can all do that, but I note that it is the parties that have been forming the government together for hundreds of years. You can accuse DENK of having caused institutional racism, but you are all responsible for that. I have already indicated that it is only a question of whether the parties that have built the institutions can, yes, also destroy the SP and all the other parties in this Chamber. I do have hope. I hope that we can all join forces around the pain that black Dutch people have shown during meetings. I have expressed that. I'll make motions for it, too. If Mrs Marijnissen does as her colleague did three weeks ago, I am fine with it. I can answer her about that for a long time. If Mrs Marijnissen wants to work together to solve problems, she is very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr. Azarkan is getting rather angry. He even calls me a "intoxicated cucumber." I heard it right, didn't I? I don't know what that is, Mr. Azarkan. I appeal to you on your anti-racism and anti-discrimination story here, because I think it is so important. And I address you to what your party itself does. Yes, you said in the debate that you regretted it. But you also said you'd apologize. My simple question was: "After that, you became very angry, or you could apologize to those people, because they still haven't heard from you. You can get mad, as far as I'm concerned, you can get even more angry, but if DENK puts on these big pants and keeps such a big story about anti-racism and anti-discrimination, then it would be appropriate for you to be so decent as to apologize to those people if you truly regret it. That's all I'm asking of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u152	If there is one thing DENK does, it is indeed putting on big pants when it comes to combating racism. We'd be happy to do that. That is what we do with our heads held high, because we are a diverse party. Because we're a party that realizes what it means every day when you're excluded. Not everyone in this room knows that. We can't all live up to what it does to you if you're arrested by the police for the umpteenth time. I'd be happy to. Once again, I would like to refer Mrs Marijnissen to the Acts of the various debates in which I have already answered the questions she has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u153	I note that there is another whole story being kept, but that there will simply be no excuses. I have to say that, and I find that very sad. Mr Azarkan can make a very nice plea against racism and discrimination and say that other people may not know what it feels like to be excluded............................................................................................................................................................................................. That makes you just as bad yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u154	I've never addressed anyone here in this room in the background. That's a real lie. I fight people for ideas. What Mrs Marijnissen is saying here is simply not true. I fight people here on ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u155	Mr Azarkan does not like it, but I can tell him one thing: this goes on until he comes to self-reflection. Until he gets to the point where he says: I'm sorry, I apologize, I'm cleaning up. As long as he doesn't, this is on. You're wildly beating around you; you're really angry. "Beautiful cucumber," "the goddamn guts" all big talk. And you talk to the government about racism, ethnic profiling and all sorts of terrible things. If there is racism, if there is racism, what is it about? Is it about the unsub's intent or what the victim experiences? Then it's the last thing the victim experiences. If that's what he's experiencing as racism, that's what counts. And then the unsub's gonna have to talk to himself. What has happened from the DENK Group is a form of ethnic profiling. Even if you didn't mean to, it absolutely happened to all those MPs that Mr Asscher just mentioned. It hurt them incredibly. You picked them out one by one, with a Turkish background, and again with a Turkish background. You've made all these videos of it. And you continue to be angry, you keep beating around you, but the interruptions keep coming, until you do whatever you ask the cabinet to do, namely apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u156	I would like to refer Mr Segers to the answer I have already given. And that's where I'm gonna stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u157	Why is it so hard? Why is it so hard? This morning, I referred to this in the debate on anti-Semitism with Mr Wilder's report. I said that I was ashamed and that it was painful to see anti-Semitism in the Christian tradition. I'm named after Maarten Luther, who wrote a book about Jews that I really hate. So it's this close. It's very recent in history. Why did we turn a page? That is because we have faced the truth and put the painful facts on the table. That has led to an impressive moment. Last January, the Prime Minister apologized. That's done a lot in the Jewish community. This is of a different order. But if you're gonna be so wild about you and say all this, I'm really gonna ask you to come up with self-reflection. Put that point down. It's a lot easier than you think. Then we can talk again about racism, which is indeed outside and which we must fight together. But first, clean up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u158	I have already been questioned on this point in a debate or five. It comes back every time. One time it is in education, the other time it was last time it was in the emergency law on the supplementing affair. I spoke here for 15 minutes about the premium affair and what I thought of the way in which the people I spent three years trying to do were tormented. But I didn't get a single question about that whole law. No, there were a number of colleagues on Mrs Leijten, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Nijboer, who began to question me on one point, while I had been with them in the Finance Committee for three years. I was surprised and wondered where that came from. Now Mr Seger is taking over. I'm not going along with that. I have said this before, during the debate on education and during the debate on SZW, what I thought of it. And that's where I'm gonna stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u159	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u160	It is indeed my last interruption. If you want to stand up for the people who are ethnically profiled by the Tax Office, then you do so because their pain and injustice has been done to them. You want to be a credible representative for them. You want to stand up for them here, as their lawyer. But you can only do that if you also face the pain caused by the DENK fraction. If you take that step, we can really turn a page and have the debate again, as you and I would like to do, about facts and about problems that are outside, not about problems that are internal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u162	Okay, thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mr. Chairman. Slave trafficking and slavery are a black chapter in our history. Today, on Keti Koti, we commemorate and celebrate its abolition. This year, when I was on a job visit to Saint Eustatius, our slavery history seized me even more. The island was known in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries as "the golden rock," the most profitable port of the West India Company. You could buy anything there: goods, weapons, spices, but also people. A historic event took place in front of the gates of the glorious Fort Orange on Saint-Eustatius. On July 12, 1848, dozens of enslaved people went to the governor's home to claim their rights, but above all their freedom. Instead, they received an armed response. Two dead and six seriously injured later the enslaved returned to the plantations, completely disillusioned. Their goal had not been achieved. But that event put pressure on the debate and on our Kingdom. Finally, on July 1, 1863, slavery was officially abolished. Ten years later, in 1873, these people were finally free. There are many stories to tell, about the terrible trips from Africa to the Americas and about the leader of the Curaçao slave rebellion, Tula. They are stories that teach us about a horrible side of humanity and about the role of our Dutch ancestors. Expressions of regret, repentance and shame are in place. But with that, we take no historical responsibility for our history. This can only be done if we acknowledge the suffering of many people and apologize for our own actions. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is stopping him from making these excuses? Mr. Chairman. In 2023, it was 150 years ago that slavery actually came to an end. D66 and GroenLinks do not want to pass that year silently. Let us remember the abolition in great detail and use the run-up to that year to provide information and raise awareness, not only about the suffering of the past, but also about institutional racism and the discriminatory patterns that have been used since then. Then we can put an end to this, through dialogue and concrete actions. Is the Cabinet prepared to turn 2023 into a special year, in which 150 years of ending slavery will be central? Mr. Chairman. Recently I posted a video online in which I read gay hate messages that I get daily on social media. That kind of hatred and discrimination makes you sad, angry, despondent, and in my case also combatable. The reason for these messages is not visible to me by my name or on my outside. How different is that for Dutch people who are confronted daily with bad jokes, hateful remarks or exclusion, purely and solely because of their colour or origin. Personal stories and many studies show that this is the order of the day. There are temporary employment agencies that too often say, "Okay, no Turks." There are brokers who promise that the new tenant will become a white Dutchman. Applyers are rejected because they are called Muhammad instead of Mark. These are conscious choices, and their effect is often not seen or recognised. It takes you a while to figure out what's going on, but then it hurts. I spoke to girls who don't get the lead in the play at school, because there would be no black princesses, young working men who are thrown away every day because they probably wouldn't be able to pay for that beautiful car and black Dutch people who are systematically taken out of line at our airports for extra checks. It is 2020 and this is the hard reality for many of our fellow countrymen. The fact that all those Black Lives Matter demonstrations make more and more people wok is good, but it also deserves to be followed in our systems, our institutions and in our policies. To experience racism is to experience inequality and the generations of the future have the right to a world without racism. This is not going to work after one debate or one day at a time. D66 therefore wants a coherent and long-term approach against racism. We ourselves put forward a number of concrete proposals: a reporting obligation for racist and discriminatory requests to agency agencies, brokers and rental intermediaries, and substantial fines if there is discrimination; special detectives against discrimination so that declarations more often lead to investigations and convictions of of offenders; and a national coordinator discrimination and racism for a fundamental approach to institutional racism and discrimination and for greater inclusiveness in government. How does the cabinet view these three proposals? Finally, Mr President. Many people who are following this debate have recently made their efforts to make this point even more discussable, not only because of George Floyd and other murdered black Americans, but because racism and discrimination are rooted and must be combated here in the Netherlands too. I would therefore also like to congratulate all those young people and older people who have made their voices heard together. I want to say to them: you will find me by your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u164	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Mr Klaver has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u165	As a historian once said, "racism does not always come in the form of a white dot hat." Sometimes it's in the name of sweetness, sometimes painted as a child's friend on a holiday and sometimes at a football talk show. What always characterizes racism is that it is at the expense of someone else. Racism is often another's problem too. "Don't imagine," "it was just a joke," "what's your problem?', "I didn't mean it like that," "joke." I feel like our society is finally changing, under pressure from the Black Lives Matter movement, the protests. Thanks to them, these excuses are no longer accepted. Comparing a word artist with a black skin color with Black Piet is just racism. Period. Mr. Chairman. Racism is not something some people do. It's not reserved for bad people. It's hidden in our systems. It's in our prejudices about each other, sometimes unintentionally, hidden in a joke or in a sincere question. So I'm saying this to myself, too. Don't be afraid. We all make mistakes sometimes. If we are called upon, let us not shoot in the defense, but listen carefully. Only then will the unconscious become aware. So recognize your prejudices, but don't act on them. But with consciousness alone, we're not there yet. The credibility of politics is at stake after all these protests. We need to get beyond the standard sentences. We must come up with concrete proposals. Fortunately, I have heard a lot of this debate. We must ensure that we ban institutional racism. In order to build a common future, we must also recognise our shared past together. That is why I ask the Prime Minister to apologize on behalf of the Dutch State for the history of slavery in the Netherlands. D66 and GroenLinks made the proposal to make 2023 a memorial year and then to commemorate and celebrate the 150 years since slavery was truly abolished. In 1863, there was a formal end to slavery, but enslaved people had to continue working for ten years to compensate the poor plantation owners. I just found out about this in my working life. At school this was not about and to tell the next generations the full story we want more attention to be paid to it in education, but we also want a national slavery museum. How wonderful it would be if this museum could be opened in 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u166	Did you just wave to me, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u167	To indicate that you have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u168	Okay, too bad. Then it'll be a very long question. GroenLinks' colleague apologizes. Our little interruption debate just showed that I don't see anything in it. But if we're talking about excuses, we're talking about your party. As you know, your party is a gathering, let me say more respectfully: a kind of association between a number of parties, including the Communist Party. A number of members from then, not necessarily from the Communist Party but from GroenLinks, also have a past within the communist movement, for example Mr Paul Rosenmöller. Mr Paul Rosenmöller was a member of the Maoist Group Marxist Leninists/Red Morgen, abbreviated GML. He was even on the board between '81 and '82 and has always supported China, Albania and the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia. Now those communists have killed between 90 and 100 million people in total. Between the... What did I say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u169	Everyone is listening carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u170	Do you have a problem, Mr. Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u171	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u172	You should support me in this. Now Mr Rosenmöller and the Communists in the world have caused between 80 and 100 million deaths. 80 to 100 million dead! This is relevant, Madam President, because Mr Rosenmöller is now the group chairman of GroenLinks in the First Chamber of the States-General, the Senate. And that gentleman has supported the communists in China and Albania and the Khmer Rouge, and I do not even have his sympathy for countries such as Albania and the former Soviet Union. There are a lot of examples. That is how he has been there and expressed his sympathy, up to and including the Khmer Rouge! Millions kill! So before you stand on your horse and apologize from the government about the slavery history of the Netherlands, when does GroenLinks come forward with excuses about supporting and sympathising with your current group leader in the First Chamber of GroenLinks about those 100 million deaths for which communism, from which your party has been responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u173	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u174	Well, then proceed. No, Mr. Wilders. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u175	But also in the present we see the consequences of racism, for example on the labour market. It has been said many times: there are young people who apply but do not get a job because of their last name. The housing market: there are brokers who find it no problem to discriminate. We've seen each other before, but now is the time to move on. That means two things. First of all, the Labour Inspectorate needs to be better equipped and given more resources in order to actually maintain it. It's gonna take more than that. But it also means something to the penalty. I would like to ask the cabinet whether it also wants to see whether it can't go up, so that we can ultimately take away their license from brokers who continue to discriminate in the housing market. The same applies to all these temporary employment agencies. Ethnic profiling is in too many systems, both in the government and in the private sector. Risk profiles are increasingly created based on algorithms. And none of us know exactly how the exclusion mechanisms work here. I would like to ask the Cabinet if it is prepared to investigate this, to ensure that it is eventually banned from profiling ethnically through these types of algorithms, through well-meaning risk profiles, because that creates exclusion. Then the police. It hasn't happened so often, but the protests of the Black Lives Matter movement were the result of police violence in the United States. I want to say here that we have to be careful with our police and the way we address them. I have great respect for what the police do in the Netherlands. But that doesn't mean we can't name the mistakes that are there. I am glad that the police are eventually investigating what happened in Rotterdam. Just because we care about the police, precisely because it must be a safe work organisation for all those men and women who work there, we need to investigate this. Cops are just people, like us. They too have prejudices. We must help them to recognize them and not act upon them. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to investigate internal security and police discrimination. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. As politicians, we have a great responsibility in combating institutional racism. In addition to policy makers, we are opinion makers. Because the normalization of racism in the public debate did not arise in one day. It was created by years of "full is full," "pleasure on" and "less, less, less." It was created by putting away those who speak against it and accusing them of political correctness or victimisation. If we really want 2020 to be a turning point, the turning point in the fight against anti-racism, then actions are needed and words of connection rather than hatred.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u176	Mr. El Yassini, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u177	Indeed, Mr President, my final question. I thought: I will wait until Mr Klaver's contribution is done in full, so that I can at least listen to what he thought was important. I think it is good that we enter into dialogue and that we continue to talk. Still, I've missed you. However, I missed Mr Klaver, Mr President, when we were dealing with a Divibokaal in the NIS, where editors were busy putting as many people as possible with a non-Western background into news items and then winning a trophy. I also missed Mr Klaver. I missed Mr Klaver when the cabinet came up with a diversity barometer, in which companies were given the opportunity through the CBS to check their staff to see how many immigrants worked within their organisation. Then I think: did I join this organization because I'm the best for that job and for that job, or am I there because I can get on a ticking list? However, I also missed Mr Klaver when the GroenLinkswethouder in Amsterdam said: we are going to work on our diversity policy and we are going to promote the person with a non-Western origin on equal terms. Looking back at my own story, the worst thing that happened to me was that I got through a job interview, thought I was the best person that was hired, and got two documents under my nose. One was a contract of employment that I could sign and the other was a statement of origin. I can tell you that in the time I have been in business, I have never experienced such a painful moment. How can we ensure that Mr Klaver not only focuses on that negative racism, but that we fight together once and for all that patronism that is constantly present again? I hope I can find Mr Klaver by my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u178	Mr President, we have a debate... I am looking at how I respond to this. I can really imagine what it's gonna do to you if you get two of these kinds of statements. That's humiliating. But the debate we are having on institutional racism, in fact this whole debate... It has only been a limited part about it, but if we reduce institutional racism and its approach to every time we come back to a Divibocal and all those kinds of examples... See, my problem is in the following. I wish we lived in a society where it's all about quality. I agree with you on that. The quality of people is the only thing that should count. That's what matters. But when I look around, I find that is not the case. If you see how many people can move on to the top of business or in politics, even in my own party, I say to Mr Wilders............................................................................................................................................................................................... That is precisely what institutional racism is about, namely that we do not select by quality. You're not gonna tell me that the very best people in our society are just generally middle-aged white men. I don't believe it. So something goes wrong and then what happens? Initiatives are being taken to try to get more diversity in those important places in our society. Does it ever go wrong? Yes. Are there any means chosen that I think you shouldn't? Yes. Unfortunately, however, we still have to keep looking, and I also hope that the VVD and you will be prepared to do so, because in the end we will have to break that institutional racism in one way or another. Because you're not gonna tell me that with the story about selecting by quality... How long have we not heard that when it comes to women's empathy: yes, we select by quality? I just don't believe it. The real positive discrimination right now is for when you're white and a man. That's what we need to break through. If that sometimes goes wrong, I say to my colleague in the VVD, if it puts indistinguishable people away, then we have to get off it quickly and we have to choose other forms. But this is the battle we have to fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you. Mr Segers has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u180	Madam President. Last Saturday, a good friend of mine was buried from my college days, Deo Peters. He's only 48 years old. Deo was a passionate teacher in secondary education. A few years ago he received recognition from the then alderman Sander Dekker as The Hague's teacher of the year. Almost all Deo's students came from the Schilderswijk. It's a so-called black school, so they're students with a migration ground and a color. When I posted a photo from our student days on Instagram after Deo's death, the reactions of students came underneath. There were a lot of them, but I'm getting one from Barkat. He wrote: "No matter how absurd your dreams sounded, Mr. Peters really was your mascot and he just helped you achieve it. I am now in HBO and I still see him as the best teacher ever." On the Facebook page of his school many more reactions came in and they moved me. Deo was a teacher who went through the fire for his students. At the very end of his life, when he was very ill, he wrote a final letter to his students, the students who would get their diploma this year. In that letter, he quoted the Russian poet Joseph Brodsky, who had to perform five years of forced labour in the Soviet Union in the 1960s. Of this Brodsky is the incentive that Deo told his students. He wrote: "Be sure you never become a victim, even though everyone tries to make you so hard and even if you have every reason to believe in that role. Don't ever become a victim. Your life is involved and your soul." If I understand Deo correctly, he didn't mean that his students couldn't be the victims of racism and discrimination, because he knew their stories. The stories about the subtle and less subtle reductions or the regular unfair treatment based on skin colour. It's a good thing these stories about racism are being told. It helps us to detect structural racism and better combat the sin of racism. It is also a good thing that we have this debate today and that we are fighting this evil here too. But if I understood Deo and his letter to his students correctly, he warned that victimization and offendership would be inherited. That victimization and perpetratorship are determined by the color of your skin. This deprives us of the opportunity to truly meet and embrace one another as equal fellows. To assume your abilities, your talents and your abilities. We are all unique and equal people. And we are because we were created by God, in His image. Every human being is of value and therefore racism and discrimination is by definition out of the question. That lesson from Deo Peters is the first notion I want to bring into this debate. Madam President. Racism cannot be solved with a policy rule from The Hague. First and foremost, it is a social issue. This is why the social debate on this issue is particularly important: awareness, meeting, recognition and mutual respect are essential. We, too, as politicians, can make a difference, by the way we speak, raise injustice and acknowledge pain. In this context, we must also pay attention to the colonial past and the role of the Netherlands in the global slave trade. The wounds that were struck then are still felt today. Recognition is also important for the consciousness of those wounds and healing. The role of these cities in the slave trade is now being investigated in several cities, especially with the question of how we should relate to it. It is a good thing that the cabinet wants to continue the dialogue on the history of slavery through an advisory college. Can a historical study of the role of the Dutch government also be part of this? This could be an important step, also towards making excuses. Madam President. The title of today's debate is institutional racism. In our institutions there can indeed be structural racism and discrimination. In other words, our institutions do not always protect enough against discrimination. I am thinking of the labour market, the housing market, the media, education, the police, the Tax Office, and of temporary employment agencies and employers who prefer workers with Dutch names. To brokers who distinguish, to the police and the tax authorities, who profile ethnically. I ask the rulers to reflect on this. Where do they see such patterns and how can we break them? Where more can we do than we do now? Think of tight surveillance at temporary employment agencies. Think about getting internships awarded by school. Think of the approach of ethnic profiling. Madam President. It is also important for education to pay proper attention to issues such as racism and discrimination and to the opposite, that is to say to everyone's equality. The curriculum for primary and secondary education is currently being revised. It is good if this subject is included. We also adopted and supported the motion of the Labour Party on this matter last week. We supported her and she was accepted. What opportunities does the government see to promote the proper attention given to this issue in education? Madam President. Finally, a specific point. Together with my colleague, Buitenweg van GroenLinks, I have tabled an initiative proposal to make it possible to make criminal grounds for hate crimes possible, so that we can arrange for heavier penalties to be imposed if someone is attacked because of their beliefs, orientation, gender or skin colour. I would like a response from the Minister of Justice on this direction of thought. Madam President. I started with Deo Peters. I wanted to end with his legacy. He encouraged me to fight injustice but above all to make me strong for everyone in the country and to give them all the space to develop their talents and their gifts. That's what I'm taking from Deo Peters' legacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you, Mr Segers. Mr Asscher has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u182	I'm sorry for your loss. It's nice to hear such a tribute in this debate. My question concerns the temporary employment agencies and housing agencies which are guilty of discrimination. A very extreme form of unequal treatment affecting the security of life. Does Mr Segers agree with me that they should no longer receive public contracts, that they should lose their licences? So these kind of organizations feel they can't do this kind of thing with Dutch taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u183	Then I should hear more precisely what offence, in what gravity and after what frequency should be passed. If Mr Asscher asks me to uphold ethical standards when awarding contracts, including everyone's equal treatment, I am certainly open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u184	The debate is about institutional racism. These are examples on which, unfortunately, the studies are in the pipeline and which we have to conclude have not done enough. Even when I was a minister, I tried everything, but more is needed and we will have to step up our efforts. It is up to the cabinet to work out exactly how that should be done, but I belong to Mr Segers to support the idea of making it clear, in the context of this debate, that there must be a hard consequence if you discriminate against other Dutch people in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u185	This is about institutional racism. Then we are talking about a structural form of racism. So we need to define very precisely to what extent structural injustice is involved. For example, if a temporary agency has to some extent crossed the line, after how many violations, where do we draw the line? But I am open to the idea that somewhere you draw the line and say: we do not want to go into business with this kind of agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u186	Thank you, Mr Segers. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u187	Thank you, Mr President. No justice, no peace. Peace is not only the absence of war, but the presence of justice. As long as we don't really see people as equals, as long as we don't really treat people as equals, there is no justice. Just as there will be no justice as long as we discriminate by species of man as a measure of all things, and all other living beings with whom we share this earth, exploit to the bone. That's why Alice Walker is one of the important people for the Animal Party. She has seen that it is essentially the same struggle. She wrote: "The animals of the world exist for their own reasons. They're not made for humans, just as black people are made for white people, or women are made for men. Essentially, the fight for justice is the same." Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party also recognizes parallels when it comes to the exploitation of animals, for which there is a great unconsciousness in society. No one here has invented the bio-industry, but we are slowly waking up to the great injustice that animals are being harmed there. And no one here invented slavery, but we did. That is the history of slavery in the Netherlands. The trafficking of human beings was a crime against humanity. In the First Chamber, the Animal Party raised this and tabled a motion on it. We thank the cabinet, Minister Ollongren, for the positive response. She asks a committee to think about combating institutional racism and how to deal with slavery history, and to see if it is possible to recognise by law that this was a crime against humanity. The naming of what happened is the beginning of the healing. Mr. Chairman. It is also true that the past is not closed. Thanks to the work of Gloria Wicker, we know that this past continues to work in today's society, in today's society. There's desperation there, because the past goes on for so long, but there's hope there too. None of us invented institutional racism. We were all raised with it without even realizing it. I was raised with it, also at school, that the Netherlands is a tolerant country: here we are open, here we find everyone equal, here is no racism, here we are color blind. And that gives you the idea that it is. But then you find out, through stories that black people tell, telling people of color, that in practice that is very different and that we have talked ourselves into a self-image that doesn't exactly correspond to what we do on a daily basis. That is the hope: if we become aware of this, then perhaps we do not have to get out of our tights when the subject of racism is raised. Nobody wants to be called a racist. But we have to face what happens every day. Mr. Chairman. Several proposals have been made today. The Animal Party supports it. Of course, there must be excuses for the history of slavery. But we want to go further and legally recognise it as a crime against humanity. Of course, we have to deal with ethnic profiling. We need to get started on education. We need to tackle discrimination in the labour market and in the housing market. All of that has to happen. I hope that today, as a Chamber, we will decide to do so. At the same time, we also need something with that awareness. That's why I liked the Prime Minister saying a few weeks ago: "I also belonged to those people who said: yes, what's wrong with Black Piet; Piet has always been black? Until I heard stories of kids telling me they felt terrible in the Santa Claus era. That's the last thing you want at such a children's party." It's important to tell that story, because that's what happened to me. I had no idea either. I was also raised with Black Piet. That's okay, as long as you have the courage to be open to that other reality. Then I'll ask the Prime Minister: if this is the last thing you want for a children's party, then shouldn't we stop? Otherwise, you're gonna abandon the kids who have abdominal pain in Santa Claus. Traditions must change, and that starts with a clear statement from our politicians, because that is our responsibility. It is our moral duty to show leadership here. Mr. Chairman. Black Piet is a symbol of the underlying problem of institutional racism, which we must address on all fronts. This isn't gonna work without playing the symbols. This is not possible without raising awareness. We will have to engage in this conversation with society and tell our own stories about how we have become aware of ourselves. When it comes to symbols, the Animal Party would like to add one more proposal. At the moment, the golden carriage is in maintenance. We propose not to let the golden carriage return to allow the king and the queen to ride around. Take this moment to place the golden carriage and all the other monuments that are rightly protested against in the right context. Tell us what the past is, what crimes have been committed against the people who have been enslaved, so that we can move forward as a society and, hopefully even before the golden coach is back, have put an end to institutional racism in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u189	"When I see you," a white man said to a friend with a tan, "I don't see anyone who's brown. I see someone who's very spontaneous and cheerful. Your skin color is there, but I don't see it. Like maybe you don't even know if I'm wearing glasses or not." Madam President, that is the Netherlands I love. Fortunately, we live in a country where a lot of people live who hang out with each other like these friends. Fortunately, we live in a country where we see it as injustice to treat people differently on the basis of their skin color. Fortunately, we live in a country where, if we do, there are many opportunities to denounce it. The excited racism debate over the last few weeks has not rarely led to mutual alienation. Isn't this protest sometimes reflected by highly ideologically motivated activists fighting for a revolutionary reversal of society as a whole? Can the fear of being accused of racism or discrimination not make people afraid of making problems with people with different cultural backgrounds more discussable? The SGP tends to answer these questions yes. I could elaborate on this for a long time, but I would easily go along with it in an infertile polarisation, which we want to avoid. Then we go from the bubble of one's own immediately perhaps shoot and blot each other firmly and we don't get a millimeter further. Much better and more fruitful it is to speak openly and honestly with each other about pain points now, in our own country, at home, at work, at school. Listen carefully to personal stories and experiences. If you as a black employee feel like working twice as hard to be appreciated, that's not right. Then it needs to be discussed. Just as well as you, as a white police officer, don't want to be thrown away as a racist when you sway a tinted man on the ticket just because he was speeding too fast. Let us stand next to and behind friendly citizens who, because of their skin colour or origin, run into obstacles when looking for work or living space, are miserable on the street, on football courts, on school squares. Don't knock and don't look away, just take it seriously. That is what the government can also contribute to, not least by setting an example itself. How does the Cabinet pick up this glove? Get all those personal stories working on you. Earlier this week, I spoke to a young, dark mother. Every time she has to explain she's not a single mother. Every time she runs into the prejudice that dark men don't look at their children. That even went so far that, when she got pregnant, she was advised to opt for abortion. Unborn lives matter, too, I'd like to say. Open eye and ear have for pain points now, that is what is first of all commanded. But also, of course, honestly consider our history, the light side, but also the shadow side, and also the disgrace of slavery. It's not statues that change stories, it's opposition to positions. And in politics today we are particularly involved in populations with whom we have a shared history and therefore an extra responsibility, such as Papua's, Moluccas and Surinamese. What can help us in this discussion is the deep realization that all people are fundamentally equal, have the same high origin, created in the image of God. And that is why racism is out of the question. I would like to add one more thing. In this broken world, evil is in every human being. It is, it seems, a dangerous, innate tendency to have a certain resistance to what and who is different. We often and like to hang out with our kind of people and like to be in our own worlds. That goes for everyone, whether we are left or right, religious or secular, whether we have a dark skin color or a light. In my tradition, there is a very beautiful term to describe both that equivalence and that baked tendency to go the wrong way. That's: we've all been ripped off the same rag. We can all just be victims, but we can also be unsubs. The Russian Nobel laureate Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, and I would like to conclude with this, wrote in his masterpiece De Gulag Archipelago, which deals with criminal camps in Siberia: "The dividing line between good and evil runs not between races, classes, countries and peoples, but through every human heart." And he could have known. Among the Nazis he suffered in a German concentration camp and then died in the camps of Siberia. Let these profound words be guiding and making us alert. The dividing line between good and evil runs not between races, classes, countries and nations, but through every human heart. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u191	I still want to apologize. "Excus" is the word of the day. You looked a few times exhortingly in my direction when I was too excited...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u192	With Mr Segers, I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u193	... and Mr Segers was talking about excuses and what comes with them. But the sin we committed with that is that of course we did not listen enough to the people who were talking here. It's been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u194	I'm glad you brought that up yourself. Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the gruesome images of George Floyd's arrest and death, much attention has been paid to the subject of racism. There are demonstrations all over the world. It is important that people make their views known and that this issue is brought to the attention of the public. Discrimination certainly also occurs in the Netherlands. There must be an eye for that and we must not look away from it. People in the Netherlands also experience that they are not judged on their contribution to society but on their origins and that is absolutely not what 50PLUS should do. The government should take strong action against this. And yet, when we look at the government, I keep the picture of the legal procedure about SyRI, System Risk Indication, the system of government that linked citizens' personal data, intended to detect different forms of fraud and abuse. The Council of State was very critical of the approach of Minister Asscher and Minister Opstelten. But only the court's ruling has turned the tide. The government's self-cleaning assets weren't there. The Court therefore made it very clear that there was a real risk of discrimination and stigmatisation of citizens on the basis of economic status and migration background. Discrimination is very persistent. As a government, we should learn from that. The housing market was also mentioned: the willingness of brokers to comply with a discriminatory application. But also with the Tax Administration it has already been mentioned by colleagues.............................................................................................................................................................................................. The cabinet has repeatedly stated that ethnic profiling does not agree, but why was the selection on nationality not removed from the control system until May 2020? I thought that was supposed to happen a long time ago. Didn't the government go through those systems to make a mistake? That's unmistakable, isn't it? We would like a response to this. And then the labour market; it has just been mentioned. Are you getting fair and equal opportunities now? The universities of Amsterdam and Utrecht have done research into applications of Dutch people with a migration background. They have 11% less chance at the job, because they have a foreign name. It already happens with students and students: the chance of an internship is many times worse with a different surname. That's what we're about to mention. The same applies to school advice. Again, they often receive lower school advice than a classmate with a Dutch name. Mr. Chairman. I got the beautiful Delta Plan against Discrimination from www.discrimination.nl. I think all my colleagues have had it. I'll show it to the government. I would like to see a response to that. I assume the plan is also known to them. There are proposals on how to deal with it in the municipality. It has already been mentioned today: it is Ketikoti. The Mayor of Rotterdam, Mr Aboutaleb, has made a fantastic speech that I can recommend to everyone to listen again. Finally. The Prime Minister has spoken to people who attended the Black Lives Matter campaign. We think it's wonderful that he talked to them. Maybe he wants to tell us if he's got any insights that he'd like to share with us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u196	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I call Mr El Yassini on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's just say that the Netherlands is a fantastic country. But it's not perfect here either. There are people in our society who are treated differently because of their skin colour or origin in the search for work, a home or just on the street. Maybe not every day and perhaps not every week, but here too, people are judged by their appearance, surname or gender, instead of their character, performance, knowledge and skill. And I should know, because I've been through those experiences in my life too, unfortunately. More than once. But for every person who has discriminated against me, there have been ten people who have given me a chance. It is precisely because of this experience in my life that I can come to the conclusion that the Netherlands is the most beautiful and best country in the world. A country where there is the Dutch dream, in which, if you are willing to work hard, you can make dreams come true and get the best out of yourself. You're gonna have to take those chances on your own. The odds I got, I took them with both hands. And I have to admit, I'm quite proud to be here today as a Member of Parliament. That is also our Netherlands, where that is possible. But I also realize too well that the fact that it is possible to climb does not mean that it is self-evident. There are young people who are discriminated against in the search for internships, whose application letter ends up directly in the garbage can. This injustice can certainly make a difference at crucial moments in your life. That is why I am so pleased that so many people feel it is necessary to speak out against racism today. I am optimistic that this debate is now taking place throughout society. The people who know me know that I am also an optimistic person. Maybe this fantastic country can get a little better and that in a while it really doesn't matter if your name is Zohair El Yassini, Piet Jansen or Mark Rutte when you apply somewhere. Most Dutch people are not screamers, but very normal, decent people with a nuanced opinion. The greatest gain would be if all these opinions could be heard and we actually got closer together, rather than fixing ourselves on the extremists who are leaving the images. Because if we want to solve this social problem, we must do it with all of us, shoulder to shoulder, all 17 million Dutch people. The government also has a role to play here. But this is not a problem that we are going to solve here in this Chamber today. There is not one answer to racism, unfortunately. It is a long journey and a matter of long breath. It also requires something from all of us in this house, namely that we are aware of inequality in many areas. Whether it is about the Tax Office, the police, Social Affairs or education, equal opportunities is part of every debate, not just in plenary today, but perhaps also in committee rooms. One subject I should like to highlight: education. Nelson Mandela once said: education is the most powerful weapon that you can use to change the world. That's only true if you keep that gun sharp. Primary education, secondary education and MBO pay a great deal of attention to discrimination and equal opportunities. But nowhere can we find how we use higher education to promote equal opportunities. So I am not talking about accessibility, because a lot is already being done about it. I'm talking about instruments as part of the teaching material and the curriculum. It is the HR manager who selects on application letters. It is the business experts who make policy at the top of business. It's the real estate agent that filters out on viewing requests. It is tomorrow's leaders who are being trained today at our colleges and universities. Can the cabinet explain how equal opportunities are now taken into account in tomorrow's training of these leaders? How do students get the handles to not make ticking lists later, but just make the right choices? To make it concrete: how is tomorrow's HR professional being prepared to say no to his boss when that boss says he can't hire Moroccans? Rounding up. As I said, the Netherlands is in my view the most beautiful and best country in the world. But I continue to work for a Netherlands where skin colour, origin, gender or orientation do not matter for the opportunities you get. Where everyone is just Dutch and where we look not at what separates us, but at what connects us. Where your descent doesn't count, but your future counts. Where you are not treated as a member of a group, but as an individual and are not looked at your faith, but at your behavior. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u198	Thank you. You were afraid there wouldn't be an interruption, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u199	I heard that few speakers have any interruption time left. I'm running out of time myself. But I see that Mr Asscher is the savior in need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u200	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u201	I think we can all agree with Mr El Yassini's wish, but we should also use this debate to tackle that problem, which he also recognizes, the problem of institutional racism in our society, which does not mean that everyone tries to take those opportunities, and not everyone who does their best actually gets those opportunities. My question is whether Mr El Yassini agrees with me that we should use this debate to act harder, for example, against temporary employment agencies and housing intermediaries who are guilty of this. That we should also mention in education that attention is being paid to combating prejudice. That we give the police and the judiciary the weapons and the means, but also the mandate to tackle criminal discrimination harder. In other words, will we try, in this debate, in addition to the sometimes predictable form of fuss, to see if we can do what for all those people who are so eager to participate in that Dutch dream?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u202	I think it is so good that everyone in the Chamber is against discrimination and racism. We're all working on the right goal. That is why I am so proud that our VVD Secretary of State for SZW, Tamara van Ark, who will soon be replaced by our Bas van 't Wout, is working on labour market discrimination. Mr Asscher just mentioned it. If you're convicted as a temp agency, you don't have to knock on the door to the government anymore. It's already being done. If you're a member of a temp agency association and you don't have a plan and you don't do anything with it, you'll be disbarred within that association. This means that you can no longer get an order from the government. We have made these steps one by one over the last few years. That is why it is so important that we continue to do so. I am glad that Mr Asscher would like to be on our shoulders to deal with this problem in that case too. But I think we should find each other mainly where we can improve. I mentioned education. Now, in the curriculum and in the curriculum, give the leaders of tomorrow's classrooms a handshake. They need to consider how to say no to their bosses when they come up with discriminatory requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u203	Mr El Yassini's reply goes two ways. On the one hand, we are all in total agreement and a great deal is already happening. On the other hand, he says we have a problem here. You can define the problem very large or very small, but we have a problem here, and those tens of thousands of people indicate that they think that it is not happening enough. In education, Mr El Yassini also felt that something had to be done. However, I would like to challenge him to try to do more to combat racism than we have done so far. No one doubts the intentions, but it's too little. It is not enough to tackle institutional racism. I'd like to challenge him to see how we can help the cabinet do more about this. I will make proposals for this later. We must do this not only now, today in this debate, but precisely in the coming months and years, for that new generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u204	But that has always been the commitment of the VVD. We're always looking at equal opportunities. That's what we're fighting for. If we can improve on that, of course we will. Of course! But we are also at the forefront of this. We also come forward with proposals ourselves. I just said that nobody here is going to ban racism in six minutes. That's not gonna work. I'd really like to, but that's not gonna work. But we have to keep going and see how we can improve it every time, so that equal opportunities for people are absolutely self-evident. I have experienced and experienced in my own life that this is not always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u205	I think Mr El Yassini is right that we are not going to solve discrimination tonight. But it's not like nothing's ever happened before. It is stated in our Constitution: discrimination is prohibited. There is action plan after action plan. Then there seems to be something structural going on, which we need to find a more fundamental answer to. I said in my speech that it might be in the awareness. Maybe I went to a bad school, but I'd never heard of Anton de Kom. It seems a little weird that you don't get anything about our slavery history in our education. I hear Mr El Yassini on education, and I think that is very good, but that means that we will not benefit from it until about 15 years from now, when those people leave school. What does the VVD propose now? I think that, with all these action plans and all these rules, we should also raise awareness among civil servants and police officers in order to clean up some of that unconsciousness. 'Cause it's still not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u206	Returning to Anton de Kom, I don't think he had anything to do with the history of slavery. If I'm correct, Mr. De Kom was born after the official abolition. He was a resistance hero and engaged in the colonization of Suriname. How do I know? My wife was born and raised in Suriname. My in-laws still live in Suriname. So I get stories like that, too. Anton de Kom died as a resistance hero in the Netherlands and he was buried in a resting place. So that's separate from the history of slavery. Here's some extra info about Anton de Kom. The Canon of the Netherlands is therefore a good example. As I recall, last week we had a review of the Canon of the Netherlands with its 50 windows. The history of slavery is an important part of this. I think that is important, because that is ultimately the basis for what we teach our young people and our children at school. The canon also ensures that we listen to experts and historians who say: these are the windows and this is what we can give information about. I didn't learn exactly what it was like in high school. I hope that the future generations will get that better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u207	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u208	Exactly. We agree it wasn't in our training. We can fix that now, but then we have to wait a very long time for those future generations to learn it all. So I'm just asking the VVD. Now we are dealing with officials in the ministries and police forces who, like Mr El Yassini and I, did not get that at school. So there's a hole there. I was wondering whether Mr El Yassini and the VVD Group were prepared to do something about that. It's not just about laws, rules and action plans. They're all supposed to be, too. At the same time, the people who have to do that are people who need to be aware. I think we have something to do there too. That's what I'm asking the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u209	Thank you for Mrs Ouwehand's question. It doesn't quite make sense what she's saying. The canon has now been recalibrated, but fourteen years ago, slavery history was also one of the windows. So it's not like we're just gonna wake up and give it to school. It's already happening. You and I probably haven't had it. We're from another period. But today's young people have received this at school, even in the last fourteen years with the Dutch canon. It seems as if Mrs Ouwehand is saying that it is not happening. It does happen. I also think it is important that this is also my commitment and demand for the cabinet to look not only at primary and secondary education and MBO, but also at higher education. Then it is not a question of how we can strengthen accessibility. They soon talk about how to get immigrant students to do as much higher education as possible. I would like to use higher education as an instrument, as a weapon, as Nelson Mandela said very well, for students who are about to start working as professionals in business and government, to work on equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u210	Thank you, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u212	Mr Azarkan has already asked six questions. I also see Mrs Marijnissen. He's got a few more interruptions. You can use the other microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u213	This one hadn't been spoken yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u214	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr El Yassini spoke in his speech about the importance of education and how education can really play an important role: together to school as a means of combating racism and discrimination. Well, in my contribution I told about Utrecht schools where even a shadow watch list was used, so that highly educated, mostly white, rich parents could fix the best schools for their children. Does Mr El Yassini agree with me that if we think that going to school together is so early in the life of children, is super important in the fight against racism and discrimination, we should not accept this kind of thing and that it is really out of date that you can be refused at a school because of what your parents believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u216	I myself come from Utrecht, so this is close to me. If I understand correctly, the VVD Utrecht has also made a point of this in the council. Children were registered at the time the ultrasound was made available. I don't think that's the point. I think that we really need to do something about it, but it is also important to make sure that you give children in schools, once you have them, even in primary education, how the world works. I think it has been put into this for a long time now, energy and teaching material. That is a good development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u217	Sure. But my point is, of course, that more and more white and black schools are emerging instead of what we want, that children go to school together. I have just mentioned a concrete example of this, but I also mentioned the point that schools can still refuse a child on the basis of faith. Mr El Yassini did not go into that. Does Mr El Yassini agree with me that it is really out of date at this time, when you want children to go to school together, that something like this can still happen in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u218	Marijnissen's first question was about black and white schools. Of course, this also has to do with the neighborhood layout. Like I said, I'm from Utrecht myself. I grew up in Overvecht. That's a disadvantaged neighborhood, which you might call a black neighborhood. When I was young, really young, it was a white neighborhood. That's slowly turned into a black neighborhood. This has to do with the Utrecht administration which has made certain choices. Let me not mention the political colour of this administration, because I want to be binding and not polarizing. I can tell you that Utrecht's board is more on that side of the Chamber. They have made a certain choice and created such neighborhoods that at some point you did find much more polarization in society. So I've been up close. It does have an effect, because it works through the schools that children choose. If I live somewhere in Overvecht, my parents will take me to a school in Overvecht and not to a school somewhere in Kanalen Island, Pillars or maybe even Terbreede. Because you want to be near the school. Mr. Wilders is correcting me. Apparently he's got that sharp on the retina, but he's also lived there, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u219	I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr President, I have Mrs Marijnissen's second point. The second question was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u221	Just repeat it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u222	Sure. I wouldn't dare, Mr. Chairman. I asked Mr El Yassini whether he did not think it was so out of date that children could be refused access to a school on the basis of their parents' beliefs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u223	That is the discussion that the VVD has started on, for example, special education. But it also has to do with the question of whether or not you can teach at a certain school as a teacher. That is what happens when you go to a religious school as a homosexual, where people say: we have no room for that. Those are topics that we must continue to discuss with all of us. As a liberal party we say: exclusion, based purely on who you love or where you come from, is of course wrong. That is a conversation that we will also have to continue to have in the coming years with the SP. I think we can take steps in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u224	I didn't agree that Willem Drees was removed from the canon,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u225	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u226	...but I did agree that Anton de Kom came in. I just heard Mr El Yassini say that he had nothing to do with slavery and slavery, but that seems a bit of a misconception to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u227	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u228	In his reply to Mrs Ouwehand he said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u229	No. I said I didn't get it myself at school. What do you mean, "didn't..."?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u230	I heard Mr El Yassini say about Anton de Kom that that is completely separate from the history of slavery. I don't agree with him. I think he belongs not only as a resistance hero in the canon, but also because of his book We slaves of Suriname from 1934. That brings me to my question. I think that, as a descendant of enslaved people, he shows very well how these power structures worked in the colony and continue to work in the existing inequality and unequal treatment that people experience. That is why I think it is very appropriate to quote him in a debate on institutional racism. Some say: precisely because of those old structures, by thinking in this way and by not dealing with that part of our past, you maintain those structures. I would ask him, besides De Kom's side as a resistance hero in the Second World War, to highlight and reflect on the question whether he also sees that De Kom was right in that. There is a beautiful statue of him in Amsterdam for a reason. Can we no longer learn from this, even for today's debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u231	What I understand most about Anton de Kom is that he stood up to the colonization of Suriname. As you know, Suriname had its independence in '76. That's where I know him from. If you say he had many more layers, it would also be very nice to read many more books of him and information about him during the coming summer recess. I will, but I think it is important that we give space to our young people to learn about that history in that canon and in those windows. Maybe that will give them a lot more knowledge than I do at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u232	Thank you, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u234	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u235	Mr. Chairman. The minister in question is not here, but it must be clear that the mental health situation in this country is bad. Totally out of control! To begin with, we shot into a group psychosis of group goodness because of the corona: together, together, together! But at least that had a useful social effect. And then we ended up overnight in a racist psychosis. That's a lot scarier, because that comes with a moral straitjacket of fury. If you're relative in that respect, the turnips are cooked. It is a difficult debate here, if I may put it that way. If you want to talk about racism, you'll notice you're on a white reservation here. Fortunately, the recess is at hand and you can all volunteer in the Bijlmer or in one of our penitentiary institutions for the much needed expertise in the field of racism. There is always talk of white-black confrontation, but there is no white colour involved and there is a racist feeling, I can tell you, uncircumcised. It is not a question of lying in the way the population groups treat themselves there. Racistically tinted that it has a nature! But imaging is everything. The talk shows, as I call them, determine the tone of the debate and the truth lies in the cemetery. In that image, you miss one thing: the much-needed white uncut racist with a gnack in his mouth... I'm just calling it a little bit of a......................................................................................................... You can't find them anywhere anymore. Just when you need him, you're looking for him, but you can't find him anywhere. Unbelievable! Yes, it's a figure from ancient times, so in literature you can find him: Céline, Léautaud, for sharpeners W.F. Hermans of Reve. Careful, bookstore, watch your case! That's a bad case. But that's it. How did it just disappear? That is because the Dutch people are not racist at all. That reporter Mr. Wilders quotes, shows it: 95% likes to maintain friendly relations with a different color. Well, what more do you want! And they think it's ridiculous what seems to be common in England, as research shows: if you weren't born in the country, then you're not a real Brit. That's what Dutch people find totally ridiculous. They wish to see everyone who lives here as a Dutchman. That is going in the right direction, you might think, but there is still a revival of the racism debate. And why is that? How do we wake up from group goodness psychosis and are we overnight initiated into racism psychosis? Because a full, fat-eaten bully in a uniform wearing a hat with his stupid head on his body puts nine minutes in the neck of a black criminal. And then the Netherlands cries because of racism! Is that racism? No one knows that. Is that pure bluntness, rudeness of that uniformed one? I know what! No one knows that. There's no need for that either. The imaging is sufficient. The TV tantes run along each other and surpass each other in empathy. That's where the imaging takes place. That is why we are concerned about racism. That's where it's coming from. The tv-talkshowantes only benefit from pulling empathic faces, sniffing along cozyly and always the one they question when it's a victim, because otherwise you don't fully agree with emotional TV. Whole parades of people who say they've been discriminated against! And you have to believe all that? Is there no externalization in that, that you haven't achieved what you want in society and then blame racism? Are all those stories of discrimination true? Not a dog asking about it. You don't have to. The program is saved. And so they surpass each other in depicting the Netherlands as a racist country. Totally ridiculous! Why do we still have racism? Because it's gonna pay off. For the emo TV, it's gonna pay off. The greatest danger is not institutional racism, but institutional anti-racism. I've been looking at how much money goes into fighting racism. I have a book; I will. I've vetted all the municipalities in the Netherlands. You don't want to know. The whole country's full of hotlines. Unbelievable! The smallest municipalities, just meadows... you'd say, if there's anything racist, take a walk or go fishing. But no, from nine to five, the racism agency is open in Waddinxveen. Grant: 50,000 guilders. Or euro, I must say. 50,000! And that's how I ran 48 counties. I am not even talking about Mrs Kaag's millions. No, it's only local, a very fine-scale network of a click-and-complaint industry, from South Limburg to Noordoost-Friesland. And then we're sitting here all over the place to bring even more hotlines, to bring even more criminal law into the group. You don't have to do anything. Anything that's inappropriate and all the rage to racism, you'll get a year in jail for that, at least. It has now become two years. Well, what more do you want? It's all, what I'm telling you, the tasteless outbursts of suffering that recompenses. That brainless guy, he totally screwed up for us and decided the whole debate. Nothing gets contradicted, nothing gets checked. Suffering and anger are presented to us uninhibited, uncensored and undisturbed, and the truth is killing us. That's my big objection. Nothing's being checked. What that guy did in America isn't important at all. A truth that doesn't fit in our alley, we don't even look at it at all. Racism must be there. If it wasn't there, some people would find out. I'm telling you, it's still profitable. I'm closing up. So what do you have to do? Stop depositing money on this problem. It ruins the debate. Then you grow interest in the problem. You shouldn't do that. What do you have to do? Individually just appreciate people on their inner values. If you clean your own sidewalk of racism and everyone has it, it's gone. Why don't you start with that? Legal protection and measures, that is out of the question, because they always hurt the colour of black and needy. You'd be ashamed of yourself that way if you were born black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u236	You are way over your speaking time. Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u237	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I would like to agree with you that a maximum of six questions can also be asked in the government's term. It is up to you to decide to which ruler those questions are asked. I call the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u238	Mr President, thank you. I will answer a number of questions after a brief introduction. Afterwards, Kajsa Ollongren, the Minister of the Interior, will answer questions about the state commission, the coordinators, the dialogue group and other questions about slavery history, "what does the government do," awareness of government, labour market including questions about temporary employment agencies and the housing market. Afterwards, the Minister of Justice and Security will talk about the police, the punitive measure and the willingness to report together and the initiative bill hatecrime. That's how we split it. I will answer a few questions myself after a brief introduction. Mr. Chairman. This conversation is urgent. I think that was also apparent in the first term of the Chamber. The terrible death of George Floyd, now about a month ago, is a wake-up call worldwide and also in our country. Everyone's seen the horrible footage. Everyone feels the same emotion, except for a few perhaps, but the vast majority of people: anger, disbelief, impotence. And yes, the Netherlands is not America. Let's establish that with each other, too. Fortunately, we are much more used to solving things together and solving them without violence. That's really a difference, I think. But there are also similarities, because here too it matters what color skin you have, what your last name is and where your parents or grandparents come from. With us too, the poison of racism is in all kinds of worn-in behaviors. That can be conscious and maybe more often unconscious, which is no excuse yet. Racism cannot, and that has been said by everyone here today. It goes against the Constitution and, perhaps even more importantly, against the Dutch tradition of tolerance. Yet it is there; yet it is happening. The truth is that this is what you see in the debate here, that not everyone in the Netherlands has to do with racism every day or in daily life. But it does concern all of us, because we're all part of the same family, the same society. What I hope is that our society, our country, can turn that emotion that comes from George Floyd's terrible death into engagement and that that involvement can eventually lead to something positive. We can't go back to the usual things of the day. I'd like to finish the introduction, Mr President, if you don't mind. This means that we need to have the conversation that leads to greater awareness, recognition and understanding. This must be a conversation that takes place at all levels and in all places of society, at all levels of society. So certainly not only in The Hague, but also in the companies, the sports canteens, the town halls. What I hope is that that conversation is not about the flanks but right through the middle. Not with the megaphone, not in high tone, but with the voice of reasonableness and with a listening ear, and especially not polarizing, but binding. Because division doesn't get us anywhere. The Dutch tradition of saying things straight and then looking for common ground, we must cherish, especially on this subject, which deals with such great and essential matters. These are moments when we, as a society, look in the mirror and wonder: where do we come from and where do we go? Mr. Chairman. At the heart of this is something important, namely the principle of equality and equality of opportunity in education, work, living and sport. As Bob Dole, the Republican presidential candidate in 1996, said, "We can never guarantee the outcome. We can guarantee the opportunities, so that everyone can get the same starting position from their talents." We don't know the outcome for sure. It is about doing justice to a large group of people who, on the basis of their skin color, feel that they are often excluded from the scope or, worse still, are actually excluded. It is therefore a question of understanding and empathy with people who actually experience pain with symbols, and here comes the complex aspect of this debate, which until recently were only associated with a great past or were associated with innocent entertainment. At the same time, and this is complicated if you really want to have the debate in the middle, in that broad political and social centre, we must also ensure that other people do not feel like racist when they are not and at least do not want to be. It is important in this discussion that we keep people involved, so that there is the greatest chance that we will actually solve this problem and really change something for the better. And yes, politics is also being looked at. I will get to the various questions, and the first question I wanted to answer, because it was taken from my heart, was Mrs Van Brenk's question about my meeting last week at the Catshuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u239	What the hell is the Prime Minister doing here with a GroenLinks story? He says he wants to do it in the middle, but he is now on the left-extremist side of the talk. First of all, Mr. Floyd's terrible murder in the United States. The Prime Minister says it's touched us all, too, but he doesn't have a shred of evidence that it was because of racist motives. So stop suggesting that that was racist. It hasn't been charged, he hasn't been convicted yet. There were two black cops with him when that happened. I thought it was a terrible picture, everyone thinks it was, but don't even suggest that it was racist. And what happens next? Unfortunately, a suspected criminal dies in the United States and what do we get? We get demonstrations here in the Netherlands where they call for violence, to kick Black Piet in the face. We get a whole line here saying: we have to apologize. Mr. Rutte is all inviting left-wing extremist activists to visit. He says here in a debate that he throws Black Piet in front of the tram. Why are you going with that hysteria? Why? I really don't get it. Something is happening in America that we don't even know is racist and then you go with the left-wing Marxist hysteria and throw all our traditions in front of the bus. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u240	Because there's a problem. I also don't know exactly what all the backgrounds and details of that terrible event in America with George Floyd are. I'm not the State's Attorney's Office in America. I'm not the prosecutor. It's all gonna have to be figured out. But the fact is that this has created something for a lot of people, including me: a feeling of disgust and anger, as I just said. And that is regardless of what exactly, in detail, was going on legally with George Floyd in that particular situation. It's just gonna have to be sorted out in America. But even Mr Wilders cannot deny that, apart from that event in America, we have a problem in our society, that here too people are still on the basis of faith, on the basis of the group to which they belong, which they may or may not want to have something to do with, or are judged on the basis of origin and not on the basis of their own unique, individual capacities and possibilities, which should give them the chance to make something fantastic of it in this beautiful country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u241	If racism is taking place in the Netherlands, and it will certainly be, it must of course be combated. But I deny that we have a big problem in the Netherlands. Again, with those 17.5 million people, 123 cases ended up in the Public Prosecutor's Office. European studies show that 95% of Dutch people have no problem with people with different skin or with immigrated people. In both investigations, we are number one in the European Union. So yes, okay: racism is always wrong. But don't pretend there's a big problem. You're gonna throw away Black Pete in one go. You are going to discuss this at once whether or not we should commemorate or I know what and also set up a committee. Do you realize, Mr. Prime Minister, that this disappoints a lot of Dutch people? You just said in a small way that we should not blame everyone for racism, but people do. Someone dies in America, very annoying, and then people here are afraid when they say that they have lost their country, that they too are discriminated against. Then they won't be able to say that anymore, because you, as Prime Minister, are throwing our entire culture on the bus. You just throw away Black Piet in one go. You say we have a big problem when we don't. I stick to the question: why do you do that? We don't have a big problem with racism. 153 reports to the State's Attorney General's Office are 153 reports to the State's Attorney's Office, but it's not like we're dangling behind something in Europe. We are at the forefront when it comes to tolerance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u242	Two things are true at the same time and can also be true at the same time in our beautiful country. There are people who actually have to deal with horrible forms of racism in their lives, who can intervene deeply in their sense of whether they are fully part of this society. Is it not good that we regularly consider what civilisation is, what progress is, that we do not judge people by colour, origin or belief, but that we judge people by their personal, unique contribution to this beautiful country? At the same time, it is true that the majority of the Netherlands is good, that the majority of the Netherlands is not racist and that at least does not want to be racist. And over time, symbols can use, and, as I just said, change the way I look at the past. That's right. I've told you myself, and that has nothing to do with George Floyd's terrible death how I've changed my mind over the past few years about that little symbol of Black Piet. That's right. But that has nothing to do with George Floyd. And other people will make that mental journey. It's a society that's moving forward. I'm glad that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u243	That has everything to do with it, because in the week that George Floyd was arrested and unfortunately lost his life, you had a debate here in a debate which I think was not at all about; I think it was even a corona debate at the end, at eleven o'clock in the evening, suddenly Black Piet was thrown in front of the train. You did that because you saw there was a discussion and there were demonstrations. It has something to do with it. You did that at the time. I insist it's incomprehensible. 95% of Dutch people have nothing against people of a different origin, people who have immigrated or people with any color I know. We don't have 150 reports to the D.A.'s office yet, while we're at 17,5 million people. We have no major problem with racism in the Netherlands. And the Prime Minister isn't responding. I wish he'd respond to that. Does he agree with me that we have almost no problem in the Netherlands, if we look at the figures? And my second supplementary question is: Prime Minister, when are you going to stand up for the native Dutch person who feels discriminated against and who does not actually receive that social housing and who has to pay his health insurance and does not receive half the benefits free of charge? There are many other examples. Why don't you just say here: I'm not going with that left-wing hysteria and I'm going to stand up for the normal native Dutchman; I'm going to help him, that's what I stand for? It's fine to fight racism, but I'm in front of the native Dutchman. Why are you abandoning them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u244	I stand up as Prime Minister for anyone who is legally resident in this country. I believe that families, people who have lived here for hundreds of years, have the same right of access to the Dutch dream as the refugee who legally entered here this morning and who has legally obtained refugee status and Dutch citizenship. All these people have equal access to the Dutch dream. I also had difficulty with the previous cabinet setting up actions to ensure that certain groups were given priority over other groups at some point in the allocation of housing. It's not right that you threatened that. We also took action on this with the previous cabinet. You must always ensure that everyone has equal access to the housing market and to the labour market. You must indeed beware of all kinds of positive discrimination which can be offensive to the people who are affected, as the VVD has argued today, and which can ultimately be totally wrong for people who are longer here and who do not feel racist and want to be as part of the future as the people who have come here. I am really saying here, and I am defending this position without compromise, that this country can only move on if everyone who is legal here, no matter how long it stays here, and wants to make a positive contribution to our future, has equal access to the Dutch dream. We should not make a distinction here between native and ethnic and pretend that one group has more access than the other group. Wilders rightly says that you have to be careful that you are going to preside over certain groups with the best intentions, because that can turn out very wrong for the support. That is why I said in my introduction that it is so important to recognise how we look at popular traditions and that history can change through time. But the last thing you want is to say to people who are committed to those traditions and who do have their views on that history, that they are racist with that. 'Cause they're not those people with that. That is exactly the nuance you need to take in this debate. That is exactly what we need to have this debate in the broad social context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u245	Fourth question, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u246	The fourth question already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u247	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u248	Okay, but I haven't had one answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u249	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u250	Okay, Mr. Chairman, the fourth question. Look, you're destroying the dream of a lot of Dutch people. I'm sorry. If there was a huge problem, then as a statesman, as prime minister, you must intervene. Then you can agree or not, but that is still somewhat fair. But we do not have a major racism problem in the Netherlands. All the figures show that. You have still, for the third time, not answered my question whether you agree with me that we do not have a major problem of racism in the Netherlands. And while we don't have that, as all the figures show, you are now saying away with that Dutch tradition as a result of an incident in America that hasn't even been proven to be racist! Indeed, Prime Minister, the law may have been amended, but 174 municipalities in the Netherlands still use the priority regime for asylum seekers when it comes to housing allocation. They still have free medical services. There was even a judge in the Netherlands who said to an asylum seeker from Afghanistan, who had raped an 18-year-old girl with restrictions: I will give you a lower sentence, otherwise you will be expelled. I find that disproportionate. A Dutchman, if he hadn't gotten tbs, would have gone to jail for ten years, and rightly so! But the asylum seeker is even given separate treatment in criminal law. I find that unacceptable. You must stand here for those Dutch. You shouldn't be following an incident when we have no problem, throwing half our country and traditions in front of the bus. You must stand up for that Dutchman! Why don't you do that sometime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u251	Well, that's what I'm doing. The question is: who are these Dutch people? If I listen to Mr Wilders like that, those Dutch are only those who came here at least before World War II or perhaps from the 1950s onwards. For me, the Dutchman is also the Syrian refugee who has been recognised as a refugee and who, after having checked all the procedures and everything, has finally been granted a residence status and the opportunity to neutralize here. For me, he is as Dutch as that Dutchman who comes from families who have been here for hundreds of years. That's the power of this country. Then there are a few things that are very important to nuance, that you don't preach one person to another person, that you don't say: you just came here, so you now have all kinds of rights that people who have been here for a long time don't have. I agree with Wilders. That is precisely why the cabinet has rightly intervened on this point. He also asked me how I looked at how big this issue is. As I said in my introduction, we are not America. That's right: we're not America. The problem here is not that big. But it's there. It's between us. Now George Floyd is the cause. Once again, I will leave in the middle what will immediately be the outcome of the trials and all those investigations in America. At least it's the cause, but the cause is deeper. And what, in a civilized country, is against talking to each other regularly about what kind of country we want to be, how do we prevent people, who all want to build a good future here, not all having the same access to the possibilities? That's what this is all about, isn't it? You shouldn't judge people by faith, color, sexual orientation, gender or any other characteristic. Everyone must have equal opportunities. Again, I can't guarantee the outcome. That's what I'm liberal for. It also depends on your talent, your commitment and all kinds of other things. But the opportunity, that you get the chance to show up at the start, that you get access to good education, that you can develop your talents to the maximum and that you never get discriminated against on things that you don't have anything to do with yourself, your last name, your gender or your skin color, I find that very essential. I'm glad we're talking about that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u252	I have great respect for this Prime Minister. He knows that, too. But at this point the mental journey as he describes it himself has been difficult. In 2013 he said: Black Pete is black and I can't change that. In 2014: Black Pete is black. That was convenient for the friends in the Antilles. In 2015: I've thought a lot about it, but I can't do much about it, people have to fight. Then the ad: act normal or leave. That was a sequel to: fuck off, go back to Turkey yourself. I appreciate that the Prime Minister himself says here, indeed in a corona debate: I have started to think differently about Black Piet, because I feel the pain that people describe to me. Does he also want to put into perspective the other statements I have just quoted, and in particular what he intends to do about them as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u253	I think that fighting is in line with my introductory words. This is what this is all about. I also explained it last time, I believe that Mr Asscher or Mr Klaver asked me to do so in the debate we had here a few weeks ago. Even if we agree here that Article 1 of the Constitution is leading and we agree on what civilisation is in a country like the Netherlands, there will still be people who are dealing with discrimination. No one here can guarantee it won't happen. No report, no year of remembrance, no state committee: nothing can guarantee that. That is ultimately also a question of collective behavior. My message, then and now, even when I teach and to all the young people I speak with a non-Western background, often with a Dutch passport, who have come back two, three generations ago or very recently as a refugee: if you are dealing with it, don't give up. It was the story of Gert-Jan Segers' friend who died. Don't give up, never be a victim, don't let that happen, fight in this society, no matter how much I'm on your side to prevent you from fighting because you don't get the equal opportunities that others do. That was my message there. That "pleer op" hung directly with an event in Rotterdam. What happened in Rotterdam? There a camera crew of the NOS was attacked by Turkish Dutch, who were waving Turkish flags on a bridge. I think that's complicated. According to freedom of expression: you can walk with a Turkish flag in the Netherlands. But it's complicated for me. Then I think: why do you do that if you are a Turkish Dutchman? But then the NOS journalists were attacked. I'm still totally behind what I said on the Summer Guests broadcast. As far as I'm concerned, you can be a full part of society as Turkish Dutchman.You are than Dutchman, point; actually I hate that hyphenated Dutch pronunciation, apparently for yourself still with a large degree of Turkish identity. That's a choice you can make yourself. That's freedom. But if you have such a big problem with freedom of speech, with our freedom of the press, with the values in this society that you see in it to attack a NOS camera crew, then you have a really big problem with me. We're not gonna accept that in this country. You'd better get the hell out of here. Wherever you go, back to Turkey or to another country: then you have no business here. So I'm not taking back any of that judgment. About Black Pete. I told you that in that debate that night: children of friends with dark skin who told me what it was doing to them. I believe that Gert-Jan Segers and others said the same today: innocent. I used that also in my introduction, that an in itself so innocent children's party that I always considered so and where I thought: yes, that is that male; that whole Santa Claus wouldn't survive for a second without Black Piets, because then he was already lying somewhere in the ditch; let's be glad that those clever Piets are around... But that skin color, that black being Piet's, that that was so intense, then I thought: yes, you know, you don't want that. You don't want a children's party to reject so many other children and seem to be such a symbol of racism. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u254	The reason why it is important is that the Prime Minister, in the discussion about Black Piet, has moved into what it means to someone else and has come to realize that it therefore matters to someone else how such a party is celebrated. Then he comes to the conclusion that that is not good, that it has to be different. The problem of the two examples I'm referring to is I'm really not that much of a fan of old interviews with each other all the time, so that's not really what I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u255	I didn't bring it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u256	No, I did it myself, because I think it's about leadership, too. When you say in that 2015 interview "I can't fix this, they have to fight" that sounds very different than "I'm on your side, I'm fighting for you, but please don't give up because most people want to give you a chance." And the Prime Minister also knows that that is something else: another statement with a different meaning. This also applies to the second example. If young people misbehave in a terrible way and beat up a camera crew, you can say to one "pleasure to Turkey" and not to the other. That difference is felt. That hurts, especially with those young people who may also have Turkish backgrounds. Yeah, you can laugh it off, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u257	I'm not laughing away; I don't agree!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u258	No, you disagree, but I'm just trying to make a serious point. When you say as a leader of a government that this is a serious problem, you have to take the lead in that too. Then you have to show that you want to handle it and that you want to fix it. Then you shouldn't have some sort of occasional liberalism like: it always exists, fight in, top-notch! No, I expect you to show that at least you're doing everything you can to combat institutional racism. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister. He's not taking back anything. It was all very good. Fine; I disagree with him. It was then, and it still is. But what's he gonna do about helping people face that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u259	Mr Asscher does not give an honest view of either of these moments. One more time, though. This was a whole group of young people with Turkish flags, probably Dutch with a Dutch passport or on their way to becoming a Dutchman. I don't know about that, but apparently also with a strong Turkish identity. And it's okay. That's freedom. You can be Dutcher in this country and still feel a connection with Turkey or be Dutcher and feel a connection with Morocco or Suriname or whatever. I think that's freedom. But if that leads you to find reason to do so, regardless of the inconvenience I have with those Turkish flags, I honestly admit that I find that complicated, but even that is allowed for a fundamental right in the Netherlands, namely freedom of expression and journalism...The freedom of the press is one of the most important pillars of our democracy, alongside this parliament and everything we do in the social debate. If that is attacked in such a way by saying, "Oh, we don't want to do this at all, that NOS team doesn't get a chance from us," those are moments when I'm normalizing. Then that may be uncomfortable, but then I normalize and I say, "If you are here with that background and you find in that background reason to justify these acts, then you have a very big problem. Well, then you're not supposed to be here. Fuck off!" Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Two. I said I'm on the side of all those young people who want to move forward. I do. I do not teach at a school with actually no original, traditional Dutch families who have been here for 40, 50 generations. They are all children of second-, third-, fourth-generation migrants and many refugee children. I do that because I don't think anything is as important as the children in this country can show up at the start. Well, my mess will add little to that, but at least I'll learn a lot of it myself. But my message is: "You too will have to deal with it in this country, unfortunately. That's inevitable. In every country where large groups of people have come, there is racism. I will fight against racism and discrimination until the last moment, but it is still there. It will never completely disappear." And then you have, like, my message in that interview and also after that, the choice. Are you saying, "I got rejected by a last name, so I'm gonna let it go now," or are you gonna fight through it? Then you know that you live in a country I have said that you can become chairman of the Lower House or mayor of Rotterdam, where you can eventually achieve anything. Is that wrong? Yeah, it's wrong that you have to fight longer. I say "maybe," because I hope that a lot of children can just walk a normal route. Fortunately, a lot of children can do the same, with their last name, with their skin color and so on. But there are those who suffer from it and who are discriminated against. That was my message.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u260	I think it is very nice that the Prime Minister teaches and maintains children. That is incredibly sympathetic, but it doesn't have much to do with the question I asked him. The question I asked him twice in response to those statements he did not take back is: what is he going to do about it? He has now emphasized every time: it still exists, no matter how stupid I think it is; I am on your side, but then you have to try harder. I think it makes a difference that one can hear 'pleasure to Turkey', while the other, who is just as misbehaving, who just so much violates the fundamental right of free news garage, is told that he is'scum' and that he must be punished or hit or sent to Office Halt. I don't care, but the latter will not be heard: fuck off to Turkey. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is he going to do about it? When he got that question about institutional racism, he said he thought it was a tiring discussion. Then he ducked away from the question of what to do about it himself. I am now asking him how he himself fulfils his responsibility here, not as a lecturer, because that is what I consider to be a side function, but as a prime minister. What's he gonna do about it? 'Cause I think it's chefsache.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u261	That was not Mr Asscher's question. Mr Asscher's question was: do you take back what you said then? Now he asks another question: what are you going to do about the underlying...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u262	I suggested...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u263	... doing facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u264	I asked two questions right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u265	No, I'll give you an answer anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u266	I asked him how he saw the statements, and I asked him what he was gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u267	The question was, do you take that verdict back? I said I'm not taking it back. I have explained the context of that statement once again. I still support those two statements, and I'd do them like that again. That was the question. Now he's asking the question, what are you gonna do about it? I think that's a fair question. How do you prevent this from happening? That is what this debate is about. I also said something about this after the meeting at which Mrs Van Brenn asked me to reflect. It will always be a combination of three things. One. We have our standard policy in the Constitution, in action plans, in all legislation to combat discrimination. We will have to give each other much tighter implementation. A lot of questions have been asked about it, which will be answered immediately by Ollongren and Grapperhaus. Two. What else can we do? I warned that we should not think that we can solve this problem with more action plans and more legislation. I don't think so. There are things to come up with. I'll get right on it. That is what I have literally said to the journalists on the Catshuis site. That brings me to the third point, which is so important. My concern is that, with a memorial and a day and a state committee, there are all good ideas that we need to look closely at and that we need to look closely at whether or not they work is a risk. The risk of all these ideas is that by doing so, you externalize the importance of socializing with one another what you do and do not accept. I am convinced that this debate is the fastest route to reducing racism as much as possible, much more than re-establishing an action plan. I am not saying that I am against it or that I am against more legislation or that I am opposed to acting against companies doing racist things. Can you, as a government, have any further contact with that? Such questions have rightly been asked by Mr Asscher and others. Those legitimate, serious questions ask a right, serious answer. But it is also solving a major social issue with more legislation, more plans, more The Hague. That's also necessary, I think with Asscher that that's true, but what's needed is to ask people to keep talking and normalize themselves in their surroundings. If you see examples of racism or discrimination in your immediate environment, you should not think "what a pity there is no action plan to prevent this," but at that point you should address that colleague and say: we do not accept this in this company; that is what I want to talk to you about. Some jokes might have been possible ten years ago, but we don't do that here anymore. I think that is equally essential. I am convinced that I find Mr Asscher on my side on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u268	Third question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u269	Finally. I asked two questions in the beginning. I'll admit it right away. I said, how do you reflect on those statements and what are you going to do? I am glad that the Prime Minister is now saying: I also think that more needs to be done. I do not think it makes any sense to do that with an action plan. That's not gonna fix it. No one claims that we are solving the problem of racism during this debate. But you can't say "I think you should standardize" if you keep telling a guy with a Turkish background that he can leave at the same time, while another guy can't. I don't think you can say: we have to do more, but we have to be careful that that doesn't distract from normalizing. I think we have a serious problem. I think the Prime Minister knows that, too. He acknowledged it in his introduction. I would like to appeal to him to leave that standarding not only to others if a wrong joke is made in the company, but to leave it here tonight in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u270	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u271	...to be combined with actions. Because it's also in policy. It's also in the things we do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u272	I couldn't agree more. Still, because he came back to that "pleasure" again: I will never say to anyone who has recently come here or whose family has come back here some generations, "you do something that is not right, go back to your own country." Never. That "pleasure" had to do with the fact that a group of Turkish young people had set themselves up like this.I say Turkish-Dutch, but for that group at that time it was Turkish young people, who were demonstrating with Turkish flags and did something which is such a flagrant delicto against what we consider civilized and normal and constitutionally organized in the freedom of expression, that was my way of normalizing. We're not gonna do that in this country. If you think that, because you have that Turkish-Dutch background, you can choose in that respect what you do and do not accept in terms of values of this society, then we are not going to experience it. That was my message.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u273	First of all, I should like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his own role as Prime Minister, which I believe we should all do, whatever role we play in this debate, and also for the call to us to standardize. I'd like to move on to what the meaning of words might be. When people attack journalists, standards or standards are not even discussed. That's unacceptable, whatever the background of this group is. I understand from several journalists that they could not go to the farmers' demonstrations that have been here without security, because they could not do their job normally. I did not hear the Prime Minister say: then the farmers will piss off to Boeristan, because this is such a flagrant mockery and that is not how we deal with journalists. If you are having a debate on institutional racism, it is quite important how a Prime Minister speaks about Dutch people with a Turkish background and says to them "pleur" and does not say that to people who only have the Dutch passport. That's why words do matter. That is not about normalizing or approving or finding unacceptable behavior; I agree with the Prime Minister. I can see they're two different reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u274	The special thing was that after the broadcast of Summer Guests most of the reactions I received came from people with a Turkish or Moroccan background. Dutch, but also with a Moroccan or Turkish past in their history. They said: this is right. It's a good thing you said this, because it's unacceptable what these kids are doing. They also did so on the title of that background. Then you can make it clear that this country would never, ever accept it at all. Moreover, I totally agree with Klaver that it is totally unacceptable what happened at those demonstrations, and recently I saw footage of it on television again, and that journalists were made difficult or even almost impossible to work. Then I won't say, "Go to Boeristan." That's right. I'll make sure that's unacceptable here. The context of what happened there in 2016 on that bridge in Rotterdam had to do with a totally different view of what is accepted or not accepted in this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u275	To be honest: whatever the reason for the protest, whether that is a Turkish-nationalist reason or that the Protestants do not agree with the nitrogen policy of this cabinet, it does not fit in the Netherlands to tackle journalists. That's what we need to standardize. That's what you always have to do. That doesn't depend on what this demonstration is about. It is precisely in the debate on institutional racism that I see a difference being made, and that is exactly what we are discussing with each other. If you are Prime Minister of all the Dutch, what the Prime Minister claims to be and what I like, you cannot make a difference as to what the type of demonstration is. Whether there are Dutch people with a Turkish background or there are farmers there, it's both equally bad. In both cases, it is unacceptable that journalists should be made impossible to work. That is the point we need to make clear. In the Netherlands, we have freedom of the press and everyone respects it. Period. I think that's what normalizing is. The phrase "pleasure" is not necessary. It's the inciting. I totally understand where the feeling comes from, but I've also talked to people who are going through it and who are asking: what does this mean to me? Am I a conditional Dutchman? Should I go to my own country if I do something the Prime Minister doesn't agree with? While someone with one passport, who was born in the Netherlands, can stay here and say what he wants? It's kind of a double measure. All I'm asking is, why do you say "pleasure"? It's not about all those other things, like normalizing. It is unacceptable to attack journalists, whether you are at a peasant demonstration or at a Turkish nationalist demonstration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u276	That's true, by the way. But I insist that what happened there on that bridge with those flags, with the strong Turkish nationalism that was dominant there, was very appropriate and, I think, well understood. Moreover, the question was asked as to why I find the term 'institutional racism' complicated. I would also like to explain that. That is because, if we are having a broad social debate about all the forces in this country that want good things, and I am convinced that it is the majority of the Dutch, regardless of their origin and background, we must prevent... let me put it another way. The term 'institutional racism' or the term'systemic racism', which I myself used, is at risk. Of course, there are organisations that talk about it or there are moments in your own background where it may be. But the moment you make that dominant in the discussion, I'm afraid, exactly as I just said, that you're losing people who say, "I'm not racist, I don't want to be racist, and I don't want to be talked about it. That's what I said with the term "sociological debate." The risk of that debate is that it is splitting up, that you lose people, that at some point people are no longer willing to think along with you in that broad social sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u277	What the Prime Minister describes, I think, is at the heart of what is at stake. I just think he's looking at it differently. My experience is that, when you come to institutions and talk about this, people feel that discomfort at some point. I paid my own visits to the NVM. I paid a visit to the KNVB. They see the problem and they want something with it, but the problem is that they can't get any further because they have to change something with themselves. The KNVB says that 99% of us are white men at the top, but neither do we get them and we find it complicated. Then I think that is what the discussion should be about. I think it has to go the other way. I think it needs a little sanding. We have to note that there are institutions that should feel appealed to rather than what the Prime Minister says: if we name them too often or too sharply, the image that they turn away is created.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u278	I'm not against sanding, by the way. Through abrasion shine. In this kind of social debate, it can make sense. What I'm warning you about is the risk of those terms. Once again, I use the term'systemic racism', so I am guilty of it myself, but it is also the term 'institutional racism'. And then you can have a whole conversation about what the similarities and the differences between those two concepts are and whether they are not synonyms. Before you know it, you say to people who say they just want to live in a country where it doesn't matter what color, origin or belief you have and where everyone has equal opportunities and should just participate: yes, but pay attention, because maybe there is a pattern in your organisation, in your background or your way of thinking that can lead to racism unconsciously. Sorry, then I'm really convinced, and that's a choice I'm making how I want to have the social debate. It may be different, and it may also be sanded with Mr Azarkan and others. In the end, that would narrow the debate and the flanks would grow. People would say, "I'm not gonna let you talk me into this, I'm gonna do the right thing at this point, and I'm not gonna let you talk me into being a racist."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u279	But then there is the question of how we can find a balance in that debate. I agree with the Prime Minister. I was approached on the street by someone who works at the IRS. He said: Mr. Azarkan, I often hear you talking critically about the Tax Administration, but please note that we have one of the best tax services in the world and thousands of people are working and doing very well. I also come across cops who say, "I do my best every day to work for society here, sometimes at risk for my own life." I appreciate that very much. On the other hand, we also note that there is professional discrimination in this tax administration. And that will last for eight years. The Prime Minister has been involved in this at some point, even if it is only because he has attended the debate. That's what's happening. So I'm looking for the balance between the inconvenience, where there are police app groups where people are being talked about in a very nasty racist way, and you're totally failing. I'm looking at the Prime Minister's responsibility. How do we find balance? For the Prime Minister, too, he really has to go for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u280	Sure. So far with what Mr Azarkan says, apart from the examples and whether all this is right. To the extent that there are cases in which groups do so, that is a justified remark. My point was not about not being allowed to name situations of racism or discrimination in groups or in the approach of citizens. It's not like you shouldn't be treating it. My point was that I fear that the sociological term "systemic" or "systemic." 'institutional racism' eventually leads to a debate on 'you do not think you are a racist, but perhaps you are'. Then I'm sure you'll lose a very large part of the Netherlands. I think it's both true. These terms go to my belief as general sociological concepts almost add something to the debate. And that is no reason why I agree with Mr Azarkan to say: if problems arise in the organisation, you should not appoint them. Then you have to name them and solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u281	I share with the Prime Minister that we need to make people aware. I don't think most people are racist or want to be racist. At the same time, I took something from the conversation we had this afternoon with the anti-racist activists. There was a speaker who said that institutional racism transcends us all; it transcends all individuals who sit here and it transcends all parties, because none of us has built that system. I just think that the system can be a tool to get people around. I think that the Prime Minister's own awareness is a very good example of this. You've grown up in a society where there are still unintended racist elements. You didn't know that, and you're in on it. Then you're not a racist, but unconsciously you're part of the system. I understand what the Prime Minister wants to watch over, and I agree with him. At the same time, I think: it is precisely by naming institutional racism that you have the chance to say that you all have a system that none of us are individually responsible for, but precisely because of that system we have to pay attention to the behaviour that has caused us and the unconsciousness that has caused it. Then you can have the conversation without individually accusing people of racism. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u282	And yet that's complicated, too. Take Black Piet. If that hurts so much with so many people, I think it's a good thing that figure is changing. But some say that Black Pete is a racist symbol and I do not agree with that. It is a popular use, in which Black Pete has grown over time as a symbol and gradually in colour. That's because we all say it's very complicated when a lot of people feel pain. But it goes back to the question of whether a certain symbol is racist when someone experiences it as racist. Mr Segers said that. I think he said yes to that question. When I heard him say that, I thought, "I don't know if I agree." I do not know if I agree that if someone experiences a particular symbol as racist, it is racist. Here again, it goes back to the question of how to ensure that you continue to take all positive social forces with you in the social discussion on the broadest possible front. There are people who say, "Rutte," we feel the same way. I've talked to a lot of people who said: yes, I also feel increasingly uncomfortable about the color of that Piet and I'm glad he's discoloured to syrup waffle or whatever. There are also people who say they do attach to that original symbol, but don't think they're racist at all. It's a folk tradition they attach to. It is changing over time and they also accept that in a few years' time it may be completely gone. If you told those people they were a racist symbol, what would you say? That's not what I'm here for. That's my plea. We can do it with great sweeping statements, I am not saying that you do, but that is the risk of this debate on institutional racism and systemic racism, but we have to make it specific every time. Mr. Azarkan made it specific. He gave an example that there could be examples in an organisation that are very contrary to everything we think is right and proper in that country. Then there is probably institutionalised or systemic racism in this isolated case. It's possible. But you can't do it as a general statement. The same applies to the Black Piet discussion. I had a big discussion about that. Now I come to Mrs Van Brenn. Last week someone at the Cat House said: sorry Mark, you're wrong, because that Black Piet is definitely a racist symbol. We have had a heated debate on this. That's good! That's exactly the conversation you need to have in society. What's against that? But there is no good or bad, as long as you are sure that people at the core are not racist or discriminatory. I come to examples where this can go very wrong and where people at the heart are racist or discriminatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u283	But that's where things go wrong. I'm going a long way with the Prime Minister. When people come out of a situation of unconsciousness, you shouldn't say to those people "you're a racist because you're for Black Piet," when they've never heard or heard that it's a racist caricature that makes black kids really abdominal pain. So if someone doesn't know, you can have the conversation, and then you're not gonna say, "You're a racist." But in offering space for that conversation, you shouldn't go so far as to deny what's just racist. Racism is not an opinion. You're not gonna have a debate on the question of whether or not this is racist? No, you know it's racist, only you're offering a little space for people who might not have seen it that way. People who, like the Prime Minister years ago, never spoke to children who said it hurt them very much. And then, if the Prime Minister wants so much space that he doesn't even dare to name it as a racist caricature that we have to get rid of, then there is the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u284	Here's a big difference of opinion. What Mrs Ouwehand is doing is not going to make that a caricature, but the risk in a debate is, of course, that what she is saying is to say that she has had that insight for a long time. That puts her in the discussion over others and she says: you have not yet made that journey, you do not yet see that it is a racist symbol, but I have seen it for a long time. Mrs Ouwehand and I always get out of it, the proportions are too good for that, but I would like to say what the risk is. For me, racism and discrimination is that in equal cases you make unequal choices based on gender characteristics, sexuality, sexual orientation, skin colour, faith, origin or whatever. That is what I think we are fighting together here. There are people who attach to this symbol from popular culture, and that's all it is; it's gotten very big in recent years, but it was of course just a symbol from popular culture, because they always thought that was important and never associated with racism. They do not want to associate this with racism either, because they are not racist. You can then say to those people, from a more exalted position, yes, but you have not yet come to that understanding. But I believe that in our society you will lose a lot of people who are on the right side of this broad social debate. That's exactly what I'm warning you as Prime Minister. In my opinion, the power of the Netherlands is precisely what you are right in saying that the vast majority of people are not racist or discriminated against at all. The fact that they do like a symbol that is felt by others does not mean that they are racist or discriminatory, nor does it necessarily mean that the symbol is racist. It does mean that I say: I don't want people to hurt because of that symbol, so let's just be glad it's colorless.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u285	But it's not about a discussion from an elevated position. I agree with the Prime Minister. We shouldn't do that. It is precisely this that calls for the courage to be vulnerable. That's why I liked it so much that the Prime Minister said he'd changed his mind. I do. And then there are always people on Twitter who say: haha, you used to like Black Piet yourself. Yeah, that's how vulnerable we are. We didn't know it then, but we listened and now we know it. It is not from loftyness, but from its own vulnerability that awareness is helped further. But then I think the Prime Minister should draw a line too. You can say that you find it very annoying when people feel like a racist because of that doll and that for that reason you don't go any further, but if you don't take that step further, you leave the people in the cold. If you don't want black kids to feel bad in the sintering season, you have to hold on and say, "We have to get rid of it." From your own vulnerability, you can bring the people with you. But you're not going to hide the fact that this is racism and that we have to stop. You will not allow it to continue until the awareness process in the Netherlands is finished. You'll draw a line. That would be my proposal. Especially in this kind of awareness process, there will always be a bit of pain. If you suddenly realize: I've been in this for years and I had no idea that it hurt other people, it hurts for a while. But we're grown-ups, so we have to be able to handle that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u286	I sincerely disagree with that. I think that's the fast track to losing support for a broad social conversation. And then it's not specifically about that Pietje; that still survives society, too, or not. But I really don't agree to get into the discussion that way. Because that means that at some point you say: I have certain insights and certain views and I now make them a norm. In my view, I shall come straight to an example: 'We all know very precisely and very quickly what blatant discrimination and racism is. What I want to achieve at the heart is that people talk to each other about it. I have to do that, Mrs Ouwehand, and we all have to do that. I think so. That is my view. The fastest way to eliminate this is to appeal to each other when it happens and say: we are not doing that here; perhaps such a joke was accepted ten years ago, but we do not think that is appropriate anymore at the moment. Apart from what we have to do nationally, this is what I and Mrs Ouwehand have to do: address each other. That's the fastest route. In addition, it is extremely important that you maintain your support. For example, Mr Wilders has just said once and again that he is not a racist and does not discriminate. Now, if you tell people who love that popular tradition, for example to Mr. Wilders, that Black Piet is going away and is no longer allowed and that we're going to decree from the state that he's not black anymore, I don't know if we're gonna lose him. And I don't want to lose Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u287	I have an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u288	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u289	It's about 10:00. Black Piet will remain the subject of discussion. If I listen carefully to the Prime Minister, he will see it coming that Black Pete will stay in the tradition for a while. He's not leaving immediately. My proposal is: as long as Black Pete is there, let's use him as a teaching moment. The delicate child's soul must know that Black Pete doesn't mean any harm. Now we know that the Prime Minister is an animated teacher, who comes into classes where that pain may still reign a little. Those kids need to be relieved of that pain. As long as Black Piet is there, it may reassure them if on occasion of the Black Piet Festival or the Santa Claus Festival the Prime Minister, who knows everyone as totally uncontaminated and free from all contamination, starts to play the role of Black Piet. That is also a pedagogic uplifting moment. Children then learn that Black Piet can be a very sweet, kind and spirited man, who favors the delicate child soul. Then they come to the realization: it was not such a bad Piet. It's just an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u290	I'm gonna chew it. I have to read back this part of the short-term report and then I come in second with a comprehensive response. There were so many layers in here that I can't react immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u291	I won't include it in a motion. It's an upcoming idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u292	Listen, I appreciate that. But I must weigh it in its fullness, in its breadth and in its depth, but also in its long-term impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u293	Given the extent of the problem, I think it may take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u294	That is what we agree on! Good. I'm coming to see Mrs. Van Brenk. She was talking about the meeting at the Catshuis. It was impressive. In the debate the week before, I said that I needed to speak to a few people who had been present at demonstrations. The fantastic colleagues at General Affairs have simply searched in articles and asked: would you like to come? There was also a case of someone who had told stories on the radio; I'll get to that in a minute. In the end, in this composition, the three of us talked for two and a half hours. I didn't think I'd talk to the organized consultation myself, because that's what the trade ministers are already doing. But they said, "You have to do it." That was one of the outcomes. So I've decided, among other things, that I'm going to talk to Black Lives Matter. That invitation went out, but they want a little more time to prepare it properly. That's what's coming. The meeting was impressive, because it was not the organised consultation. Not that that can't be impressive, but this was impressive because they were people who had all gone to demonstrations. A few were already more active in that movement, but a few were not at all. Maybe I can give you one example. I'll anonymize it, but I get to do it because this story was broadcast on FunX. That person had told me the following and I asked him to repeat the story that afternoon. This person says: "I have experienced several things myself in the field of racism. The most recent was last year, during my job at KLM. My last name is..." I'm not going to report it here out of discretion "and that name used to be used as a swear word to speak to people of color and with characteristics of dark people, such as full lips and so on. My supervisors, four middle-aged white men, once asked me if I knew the meaning of my last name. I didn't know what they meant at the time, but they looked at me kind of derogatory. They said it was a word that was used in 1800. Then I went to look it up, and that's how I found out what they meant. The way they asked me, so smiling and so derogatory, made me get tears in my eyes. I then raised it with my supervisor, but in the end nothing was done with it." This is a quote from a radio program. He's a wonderful young guy. If anyone in this country makes a positive contribution, he's one of those guys. He'll see it through. That also raised such an enormous emotion that afternoon. Sharing these kinds of stories, without making any big conclusions or telling us which plan or norming is going to help us in this, did us very well. At the same time, in Trouw, a beautiful article was published by a young woman of 26 who demonstrated on Dam Square. She wasn't there that afternoon. She told me about her father in that interview. Her father never really wanted to talk about the subject. It was a very impressive interview with her in Trouw of June 5th. Robin Goudsmit is the journalist who wrote it down. I can recommend it to you. When you read that piece, you have tears in your eyes, also because of what that did between that girl and that father, who never really wanted to talk about what he had been through and now says: next time you're gonna demonstrate, I'm right next to you. I was actually very happy that we had the opportunity to share that kind of story with each other and took all the time for it without immediately having the goal that something big came out of it. That's what I just said. I'm not gonna repeat it. So I'm gonna talk to Black Lives Matter, too. Again, they have indicated that they do not want that before the summer, because they want some more time to prepare it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u295	However, one more question to clarify. It was about us having to standardize with each other. If you mention the example of this young man at KLM, is it possible that you say that what happened to him was racist with his colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u296	Yes. Totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u297	Exactly. That doesn't mean we have to say that the people who did that are racists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u298	When four guys ask, "Do you know what your last name means?" And then laughing and knowing what impact that has on someone, that's the lowest scrum that's ever been produced in this society for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u299	That's very good, because normalizing requires that we name what it is, that this is racism. Why am I asking this? It's an intermediate step. Whether it is the symbol of Black Pete, something that happens or someone who compares a word artist to Black Pete, are we prepared to call that racism? I think that's part of normalizing. Racism is not an opinion. Racism is not a concept. Something's racist or it's not. I think the Prime Minister should be very clear when something is racism. Then it is a second or the people who speak it are actually racists or they are making a mistake or they want to admit it. But naming when something is racism is precisely our job and certainly the job of a prime minister of all the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u300	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u301	The same goes for Black Piet. That also applies when a person is addressed in this way. That actually applies to all those caricatures that are made of people and to symbols that are racist. We must be able to say that without saying that everyone in the Netherlands is a racist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u302	Yes. But then we don't always have to agree on the final outcome of the normalizing process. I think Clover and I agree that these four guys are the lowest thing you can find in this society. But I insist that a folk tradition, Saint Nicholas and those guys around it and the colour of it, now seems very painful to people................................................................................................................................. That's why that was my response to Segers in his first term. So this too requires nuance. But I think we agree on the example I just read. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a few other questions. There was talk about the national memorial in 2023. We think that's a good idea. All this needs to be designed. I don't know how to do that yet, but it won't be for a few years. Making 2023 a memorial year is a good idea. In a moment Mrs Ollongren will discuss the idea of a national holiday for Ketikoti. This was about the national memorial. Then there was the question of excuses for slavery history. Indeed, deep regret and remorse was expressed by Louis Asscher at the time when we were in the cabinet together. This has also been repeated today by Ingrid van Engelshoven on the occasion of Ketikoti. In doing so, it has recognised that we, as a government, are still unable to prevent unequal treatment and exclusion. Of course you are complimentary about a colleague, but I hope I can say that I think she made an impressive speech there. I know that doesn't go far enough for everyone. I understand that, too, because why not use that one word, excuses, to take another step further away from our past? At the same time, it goes too far for others, and I understand that. Can you hold people who live today responsible for the distant past? That is why it is our view that excuses carry the risk of polarising our society instead of giving rise to dialogue and connection. Whatever you need to avoid, of course, is that it will not be the intention of those who asked you to close something by turning a page. That risk, too, is an apology. Then it's like, that's it, that's it, that's it. But our slavery history is far from being deepened and we also need to learn so much about what exactly happened there. In other words, Mr President, we do not intend to take that step now. I say this in response to the various questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u303	What really strikes me throughout the Prime Minister's term is that in his response, whether it is about racism and discrimination or, as we are now, the pain of slavery history, he takes a very long time to talk about the pain of the white Dutch people and prevent polarisation and keep everyone involved. But this debate should be about the pain that black Dutch people are experiencing and what we can do about giving them more equal opportunities in the labour market and in the housing market. It should be about how we can help them with excuses about the past of slavery to give that part a better place. Mr President, earlier this year I was impressed by the fact that the Prime Minister himself apologized for the role of the Dutch government in the persecution of Jews and that Minister Grapperhaus in Nijmegen finally said that the bombing there went wrong during the Second World War and caused a great deal of suffering. I was also impressed by the King's apology in Indonesia for the role that the Netherlands played there at the end of the colonial period. Those were all very admirable steps of this cabinet. And today the question is, on Ketikoti, whether the Prime Minister can also empathize with the pain that many black Dutch people feel in the past of slavery. Then I repeat my question from the first term: what prevents the Prime Minister from making those excuses and doing justice to the feelings of many black Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u304	It'll be my lack of communication. I will get to the apologies in a moment, but I am surprised at the first half of Mr Jetten's question. But that is what I have to look for from myself, because I have tried to do both aspects as well as possible in my term. I am convinced that only if we name the breadth of the social debate, including... I also told Mrs Van Brenn about the meeting we had at the Catshuis last week. Well, there were no Dutch, except the three of us and some civil servants, because the people who were invited were people who demonstrated for this and had to deal directly with it themselves. It seems that I have not managed to put that balance in my response to this, but at least that was my intention. I just said something about the apology. The struggle is, of course, also in the next. What makes it complicated is that whoever has done or left something apologizes to those who have suffered from it. And then it's inevitable, I think, but once again, that's always a complicated discussion, you see if the victims are still alive. Of course, that was different with my apologies for the Dutch government's trade in the persecution of Jews in the Second World War and for the other examples that Mr Jetten mentioned here. The victims are no longer alive and the perpetrators were slave traders and slave owners. They don't live either. Furthermore, of course, the entire political context has also changed. So I find that complicated. In conjunction with what I just said about the risk I see, namely that excuses polarize our society instead of helping the debate, I come to the conclusion that it is not wise to do so now. I therefore disagree with Mr Jetten on that point. That's okay, isn't it? It sheds occasionally, even in the coalition. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u305	I would like to take two elements out of this answer. Let me start with the first one. In 2012, the PVV asked the Prime Minister to apologize for the role played by the Dutch government in the persecution of Jews in the Netherlands. In 2012, the Prime Minister's answer to that question from the PVV was: there is no broad advice from the circle of stakeholders that should lead to excuses. That was 2012. In 2020, fortunately, there was this wonderful speech by this Prime Minister, apologizing for the Dutch government's role in the persecution of Jews. If we put that on the slavery debate for a moment, it is not a question of whether there is a need for discussion in the circle of directly involved parties. That's obvious. The Surinam-Dutch community, the Antilian-Dutch community and all kinds of African Dutch people may not have experienced this slavery themselves, but they all know the family stories of grandpa and grandma who were still born a slave on a plantation and who, after that slavery, had to deal with the same patterns for decades. This pain is felt in education, and it is also present in today's racism. So again my question: if the cabinet can make excuses for the persecution of Jews, can make excuses for the colonial times in Indonesia, but for the bombing of Nijmegen, why not for our role in that slavery past?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u306	I certainly don't want to say that people who ask for excuses make a strange proposal. I think it's a legitimate discussion. I'm just telling you what our conclusion is after weighing. It should be possible. I don't think it's a weird request at all. I also know that there are a lot of people who would benefit if that were to happen. I'm just explaining what the arguments are in the end why we're not doing it. What is complicated, what is the struggle in that discussion, is that this would, in my opinion, polarize the social debate rather. I mentioned those arguments. I can only say that we do not agree on that now. But I do not think Mr Jetten's request is strange or out of place. I don't think what's he doing? I understand the request. I also think it is a real request, and I also think that we really have to weigh that up. We did, and I shared the conclusion of that. That is, of course, the duty of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u307	That's what we're doing here. I'm testing and testing those considerations and those conclusions here. I would like to repeat to the cabinet what I also asked Mr Heerma: if this dialogue committee is going to work, then at least it will be open to a possible conclusion from the dialogue committee that apologizing can indeed help to make progress towards racism and discrimination in the Netherlands. Well, in his previous reply, the Prime Minister said that the people who did it, the slave traders or the plantation owners, who are actually guilty of that slavery, are no longer alive. But I think that would be a denial of the responsibility that the Dutch government has played in all these centuries. I'm just mentioning a few things. In 1789 it was the States-General who, with a placard, encouraged "negro trade" in the Dutch colonies. It was the States-General who took over the shares of the West India Company. It was the Kingdom of the Netherlands that took over all the debts and liabilities of the Republic. It was only in 1863, well after France and Britain had abolished slavery, that the Netherlands decided to end slavery. And then it was the Dutch government that said: "Ah, we have now laid down by law that we are abolishing slavery, but that is very sad for all those plantation owners. You know what? You may keep those slaves working for another ten years." And it was not until 1873 that slavery in the Kingdom actually came to an end. That's not something you can only charge the slave traders or the shareholders of the WIC at the time. The Dutch government has also played a role in this. That is why this is not only about the pain of black Dutch people, but also about the historical recognition, as Tony Blair did as Prime Minister in 2005, that the Dutch government does have a responsibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u308	Yes, but the UK never apologized. There's been an apology. The Netherlands has done the same. Benin and Ghana have expressed regret. Only in the United States has Congress adopted a resolution. It wasn't taken over by the president. We have tried to check this out and internationally there are no excuses for slavery as such. Apart from the US Congress resolution, we have not been able to find any other examples. What Mr Jetten says here is relevant, but at the same time they show how much distance or time is, how far back in the past this is. It started in the Republic. According to many, we still are, with one family that always delivers the president, but well, then we really were a republic. Now we're a Republican kingdom. Even when slavery was abolished, this happened at a time when there was no universal right to vote, in which women were unable to act and in which child labour existed on a large scale. It was such a different time that I find it complicated. I just sketched that. It's a struggle. We really talked about it. Mr Jetten is not asking for anything stupid, quite the contrary. I understand the request, and I think it's real. You have to weigh it. We weighed that. All these reasons, polarization, the fact that this is so far back in history and that it was a different state system, "if I would do it, who am I to apologize for and how far back in history you can go to do it" are all arguments that ultimately make us say: everything weighs down we do not think it is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u309	Finally. I hope that this debate will take a lot of concrete action that we can take today to tackle racism and discrimination in the housing market, in the labour market and all the examples that have been mentioned. I am also pleased with the letters from the cabinet on this and at least the first part of the reply on that point. However, I would like to say the following again, because this debate will continue in the coming years. The history of slavery, much more than I realized until recently, is still working in our contemporary society. It has worn unconscious patterns and thoughts in our heads about how we white people look at black people and how black people look at themselves and the role they can play in society. Then I'll say the following to the cabinet again. If there is a large group of black Dutch people asking us "see and feel our pain and help us by making those excuses," I hope that the cabinet will be able to get to that point in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u310	Yes, but also to the viewers who say: we think this is important. I respect that very much. I agree with Mr Jetten. I also speak to people who say: it would really do me a lot of good if you were to pronounce it. At the same time, let us also acknowledge that this is not usance in the world and that the Netherlands is not doing something crazy by not doing it. I am not surprised by the request either. There is no doubt that this debate is not ready and will return, but you are asking for our position. I give our position with the arguments and the struggle in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u311	I note that I have had difficulty with the Prime Minister's argument, which has actually been in this debate all along. He says about society: by being too firm in this, we can knock some people in the head. I've also had conversations with people from the Black Lives Matter movement. They don't say that other lives don't matter, but: "We're talking about Black Lives Matter. It would be good if power finally chose for us, helped us and saw our backward position." From that point of view, it would be a good idea if we took the lead and the initiative to apologize. There is a great need for this within the black community here in the Netherlands. I know there are also people who say, "Why do we have to do this? Do I have to do that personally?" I've had reactions from people who say, "Yes, but Mark Rutte can't help it?" No, that's not the point at all. We don't hold Mark Rutte responsible. I don't hold people in this society who live here responsible for that. It's about the role of the state. I'm sorry to say it, but I have a feeling this Prime Minister is missing the heart of the debate: what was created by Black Lives Matter. Now is the time to stand on their side and say, however difficult it is in society, that we choose to apologize for slavery, even if it causes tensions in society. Then it is our responsibility as politicians to do so in a way that we hold our society together. That's why I don't see apology as an end point. In fact, they are the beginning of the dialogue that we need to enter into.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u312	Again, I do not think it is a strange request, but I respond by saying that there are arguments against it and I have tried to explain them here. Mr Klaver says: "Listen, it is extremely important that if there is one signal here tonight, we as the House of Representatives and the Government show that we are in complete agreement with all the people in this country." It is, of course, very much aimed at people with an Antillean, Surinamese or other background, but it is equally true of everyone in this country who is discriminated against, who experiences racism on the basis of their specific background in racism and wider when it comes to discrimination. If there is one thing that is important tonight, it is that we are sending one signal, and that is that we in this country find it unacceptable and that we will do everything we can to prevent it. Now there's a sensitive discussion in there. I recognize it. That sensitivity is in his apology for the slavery past. That's a very sensitive discussion. I am starting to say again, otherwise there will be a misunderstanding that the Netherlands is not at the back of the line. There has not yet been a government in the world, as far as we can tell, which has done so, not even in Africa. There are governments that have expressed "deep regret and repentance," similar to what the Netherlands has done, but no governments that have apologized yet. The State, and that is of course also the complicated struggle, was another State. That was not a parliamentary system. If I apologize for the Dutch government's trade in the Second World War in the persecution of Jewish Dutch people and the fact that they have been or at least have not stopped them, which ultimately killed 100,000 Jews and Sinti-Nederlands in that war, then it is still a period from which people are still alive and a State that we can imagine: with universal suffrage, a party system and so on. It is not a state that was first a republic with a system of regent and some complexity and then a kingdom in which we did not have a universal right to vote. That distance in time is for me one of the cardinal arguments in the struggle, which I say: everything weighs down, it is always a consideration, because once again: it is not a strange request, I do not think it is sensible, apart from the fact that I think that, given the state of the social debate, it is now going to work more polarisingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u313	Exactly that last point, that it's gonna be polarizing. The debate is already polarized. We pretend there are two sides to the discussion, but racism is not a debate. Racism is there or racism is not there. I think the Prime Minister's argument is wrong. He says: "We should not call the figure of Black Piet racist, because with that we hit people's heads. Apologizing would polarize the debate." That's the wrong argument. Those arguments are not correct. We have a responsibility to keep this society together, to engage in conversation with people who say "for me sinterklaas is so important and I am not a racist" and to keep them in mind. But it is also our responsibility to name racism. For this Prime Minister says: we must distance ourselves from each other and say that we do not accept this. No, that time is behind us. The time when we said to each other 'boo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo' is over; we have often said that enough. Now it is about daring to give the painful message, indicating what is racist in this society and what is not. At the same time, we need to be big enough to give people the chance to fix mistakes, not to throw everyone away as racist. 'Cause then the conversation's over. I believe that the Prime Minister is missing an opportunity here and, in fact, the heart of the debate that we should be discussing tonight. Institutional racism is about us as power, all of us together here, getting out for a moment and really naming what racism is. That's really a little more; that's more painful. That's hard for me, too. Let me be honest with you about that. It took me a long time to call Black Piet a racist caricature. But it is important to take the step to do so. This is actually what all these protesters are asking of us. They do not ask us whether we condemn racism. Even Mr Wilders says he's against racism. Yeah, even.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u314	Also.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u315	No, guys, even.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u316	Get him in there, Jesse. Okay, Geert Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u317	No. This isn't a missed opportunity. This is exactly where it goes wrong. If you put people away as a group and still try to do... Anyone can say he's against racism, but are you really against it? That's the painful part. That's hard, that barn, that feels polarizing. But it's what it takes right now, right now in time. We need to get through that together. That's the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u318	I'm just gonna peel it off. The question I tried to answer was about whether or not to make excuses for slavery history. We, as a cabinet, expressed our deep regret and repentance in 2013 and in the years that followed it has been repeated in several forms, such as this afternoon in an impressive speech by Ingrid van Engelshoven. The question is whether you should take the step towards apology. I think there are arguments not to do that. It's a weighting. It's not absolutely yes or no. It's a balance you're looking for. And we come to this conclusion in the end. That is what makes this discussion so complicated. But I don't think that has anything to do with whether or not you reject racist symbols. Mr Klaver has a second discussion, which I would also like to make explicit. He seems to give the impression that there is some sort of absolute norm of when something is a racist symbol or not. With all due respect to Mr Klaver: the fact that he made the trip from Black Piet is not a racist symbol to Black Piet is a racist symbol, doesn't mean that the whole of the Netherlands has to agree with him. I think Clover and I agree on those four guys at Schiphol, in the example I mentioned earlier. In my opinion, the Netherlands quite decently agrees that this is flagrant discrimination and racism and not humor. That's just wrong. It's humiliating someone, destroying them in a terrible, revolting way. So very often you will find the consensus with each other very quickly. But with that symbol of Black Piet you can see the nuance. Apart from Black Piet, because we've been talking about this for far too long, but it's interesting because it shows that it's not always absolute. Very often we agree very quickly, but it is not always absolute. At Black Piet he may have made that trip, but I think it is a bit arrogant to say that the whole society must have made that journey with him and must have drawn that conclusion. I come to the conclusion for another reason that I am pleased that Black Piet is changing: I do not want there to be children who consider a symbol that I am part of our popular culture that is changing so horrible that they feel excluded from that party and feel that they are not fully participating in this society. Then I think, guys, let's change this popular culture, this tradition very quickly. That's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u319	Mr Segers. No. Mr. Clover. It's your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u320	Then so be it. It's all about the inner journey. I don't really care whether it's Mrs. Ouwehand's inner journey or mine or yours. Whatever. Black Piet is the symbol. We've been thinking about it for a long time. I think it's a good thing we're doing that now and not again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u321	I'm afraid so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u322	Also, sure. Just for the record. It is not an inner journey we have made. It is the United Nations that has indicated that it is a racist symbol. That's not something we find, right here. No, the United Nations are reporting this. We should not pretend that it is an opinion that something is racist or not racist. This too is a problem of the debate and a problem of institutional racism: that we pretend to differ on whether something is racist or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u323	Yeah, you can do that sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u324	I think it is important that we indicate what is racist or not racist. At the same time, on that point, I would like to approach the Prime Minister. I think you can say that Black Piet is a racist symbol without putting people away as racists, because I don't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u325	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u326	But that's the balancing art we stand for. Do we dare to name what's racist? So if someone makes a joke, says "this person looks like Black Piet," it's about crevices, or you name all caricatures, then we have to dare say that's racist, but without putting everyone right away as a racist. That's the balancing act we have to do. But that does not mean that we no longer name what is racist or not, not in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u327	Just for a second. I think this is too easy. I said that you agree very quickly on a very wide range of expressions that will put every civilized and thoughtful person away and name them as racist and discriminatory. But that doesn't mean you always have to agree on that. So we don't agree at Black Piet. I'm glad that changes, I say again, because I see that it hurts people. But, in response to Mr Segers, who said something different about it in his first term, the fact that someone is in pain does not mean that it is racist. I had a wonderful conversation about this at the Catshuis with the presenter of Klokhuis. I can call that because she was also visible in the press statements afterward. I had said something about it in the press conference, and as a result she made a very impressive video about the history of Black Piet, with which she, in her view, convincingly demonstrated that it is a racist symbol. We didn't agree on that either that afternoon, but we don't have to. That too is part of this discussion. If we are going to make it absolutely clear, if we are going to say here that in 100% of the cases we are here or, worse still, the United Nations - I do not think that is the strongest argument - to determine whether or not something is a racist symbol, then externalize the discussion, then you place it somewhere else, then you do not take society with you. I am trying to make a plea today to make it an inclusive debate in the broad political and social context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u328	That the Prime Minister paraphrases me perfectly well, I doubt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u329	And three times already! Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u330	Exactly. Then something gets in the Prime Minister's head and you'll never get off it. The question I asked is: what should weigh more heavily, the unsub's intention or the victim's perception? I think it's the latter. That is not an absolute statement about whether something is racist in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u331	That nuance is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u332	Exactly. But all that aside. Still, about the apology. I understand the Prime Minister very well. I understand that it's really a balance, that it's a quest, and that it's really the question of how long you have to go back in the past to find some injustice you're gonna ask or apologize for. I do not tend to apologize to Spain about what they have us in a very long past... The Prime Minister says it would be justified. I don't have that urge. Those shadows aren't related to the present. That's over. We're talking about inner travel and development. I have also experienced development in this area, because I see that these shadows hang over the present and that they sometimes get in our way. I noticed some of that myself when in Ghana I walked around the slave fortress Elmina, built by Dutchmen. There was a Bible verse on the wall and the slaves were sitting underneath in a dungeon and were taken to America to never return. I'm not to blame for that. I'm not guilty of that. I have no part in that, but I do feel shame. That's kind of a collective shame, because you're part of a history, a past that's ballast somewhere. If the shadows hang over the present, we might have to talk about that. Again, I understand the Prime Minister's considerations. I understand his doubt. I understand it's weighing somewhere. But then my question: could it also be the outcome of a development? Mr Jetten was right to talk about the difference between 2012 and 2020 in the Jewish community. At first, the excuses were difficult, but the outcome of a development in the community of Dutch society eventually led to a very impressive moment... excuses, Madam President, for this long story, but still for a moment, because this is an important point. The Prime Minister then marked that he did not want to rise morally over his predecessors. I thought that was a very nice statement. Because he always says: you can stand a little on the moral high ground and judge everyone who lived in earlier times with the science of today, but that also has something uncomfortable. But still, could that be the outcome of such a dialogue group or perhaps of a state committee starting? Could that be the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u333	I can't rule that out. I don't know. It's a weighting. The government's view on this point also emerged after discussion, with all the arguments being weighed. So we have also been asked what this would mean for people in the group who have a special involvement in this. You don't know that. I can't say right now. But what I just said wasn't engraved in stone. No, of course these are not questions such as 'whether or not a budget deficit' or 'the streetlight does or does not work'. Of course this isn't. These are, of course, always considerations of argument. That is, of course, also the political process. In a cabinet, you do that to each other. Those are conscientious discussions. Everyone does that from their point of view and eventually you try to set a line with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u334	Finally, Madam President. I think this is indeed a development, that this is a journey. I think that is a moment when it is very beneficial to say this; at least, I think it is. My appeal would be to keep it open when that dialogue group starts working, when we look into the past, when the facts come on the table and when we listen to the stories. I would say: keep an open mind that that might be the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u335	Once again, you hear in my words that I am not saying that it is all bullshit and that it cannot be done. No, I get the requests. I also know what this would mean to people. And at the same time, I also think, really out of conviction, that the choice we make is the right choice. But with that all the underlying arguments of course remain in the scales and you will have to look at them every time. I agree with Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u336	Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u337	Over the last half hour, we have seen colleagues trying to convince the Prime Minister to apologize with all kinds of other arguments. He doesn't see it that way. I have another question. What are the consequences of apologizing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u338	If the question is whether we are afraid that the money would cost, I suspect, then I say: that does not matter here. If that were the question... I don't know. The impression is not that all of a sudden that would bring with it all kinds of claims. And even if it were, that would not be a consideration, just as the excuses for the Dutch role in the Second World War in the persecution of Jewish Dutch people have not been considered. You really need to separate those things. I think it's really a form of civilisation that doesn't let you be part of considerations. I am proud that this has not been part of the consideration at any time in the discussions I attended. But I don't know if that's the underlying... I'm guessing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u339	Definitely not. I have been to Suriname and Curaçao myself and have also experienced how painful the history of slavery is. I've seen the attributes that were used and how people were punished. I've heard the stories of the plantations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u340	Terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u341	That's really awful. Colleagues have indicated why it would be a good idea, from all kinds of perspectives. I hear the Prime Minister saying that he thinks everything is important that it is not now; perhaps in the future he does, he doesn't know that either. I honestly wondered what the consequences would be if you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u342	I think they are described in detail: a group of people in the Netherlands has explicitly said that it would help them if it did. That is also a very relevant fact. I believe that this is also the basis for the request made in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u343	I know that request is there, because I did it. My party's been asking for years. Others have been asking for years. We see that society demands it, at least part of society. My question was, what are the consequences if you apologize?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u344	You ask the same question three times, and I have now answered it three times. Mr. Chairman. I come to the last question, about the golden carriage. It will be restored in its entirety. We are not going to rewrite history, as I said before, by removing certain parts or painting them white. It is important, however, that this cultural historical object is put into context and that explanation is given. It starts in 1898. Then the golden carriage was donated to Queen Wilhelmina on occasion of her inauguration, by the inhabitants of Amsterdam. At the same time, we should also outline what the use of the carriage has been over the years. The context has also changed. It is certainly reasonable to do so when the restoration is complete. He's being restored now. No decision has yet been taken on future use. The one about the golden carriage. It seems that I have answered the questions that were addressed to me. My polite request to the President, or at least my suggestion, is to ask my colleague from the Interior to take her share of the reply. But that's just a polite request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u345	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u346	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the 1st of July today. That is why it is really nice to have this debate today. On 1 July, in a national commemoration, we are discussing the abolition of slavery, at the National Monument. The chairman was there today. The Ketikotiviering reminds us of a fundamental right that we have in the Netherlands. That is what Article 1 of our Constitution states, a right that belongs to all citizens of this country: everyone in the Netherlands can be themselves, one group is not worth more than the other group and one category of people does not deserve a different treatment from the other. That's the core of how we live together in this country. That is also good, because a society in which the other is only tolerated, so literally allowed to exist, is not sustainable. Then groups isolate themselves from each other. That's not the country we want to be. That's not the country I stand for and this cabinet stands for. We want to be a country that is not indifferent, but a country that is inclusive, a country in which you live in the other. Nor should the problem of racism and discrimination be dealt with only when there is an event, when there is an incident. I think that we should always try to recognise and understand what racism and discrimination have for individuals, but also for society as a whole. If we do that, that society will move on. Legislation is important, but legislation alone cannot eliminate racism and discrimination, not completely. The cabinet can't do it alone. The approach to racism and discrimination requires us to be critical of the phenomenon of exclusion of people, of behaviour, of social structures in our society and of systems that maintain unequal opportunities. As a government, you can take a big step in that. And then you can also achieve a lot in the Netherlands. That's kind of the assignment I see. I also like that for a Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for constitutional matters: the mandate that is based on that Article 1. It's a country where you're not restricted, a country where you have opportunities. It doesn't matter what religion, color, belief, sexual orientation or gender you have. We also had a debate on Article 1 this week. It's a country where we embrace differences, instead of fighting them. And indeed, the Prime Minister just said it, even when it's sanding and perhaps even when it's sanding. That's an assignment. If you respect and promote the freedom of others, then you are truly free. The same applies to our country. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked, which I am happy to answer. Some of them are in the cabinet. I'll do that in the order the Prime Minister just indicated. I'd like to start with that state committee. Mr Asscher asked for it and Mr Heerma agreed if I heard him correctly. In fact, I should like to give this subject the attention it deserves. I also heard suggestions from Mr Jetten and Mr Azarkan. They asked about a national coordinator. Azarkan talked about a coordinator against discrimination; Jetten talked about a coordinator against racism and for inclusion. They're actually similar ideas. They're questions of approach. I also understood that when Grapperhaus and Koolmees discussed anti-Semitism with him this morning, it was about a coordinator for anti-Semitism. I think it is a good thing that through this kind of thing we strive to keep the focus on the subject, actually as I said, even if we shove the incidents or perhaps even the demonstrations we have all seen back in our memories, because that is what is going to happen. But the subject is important and we want to hold on to it. That is why I would also like to say to the Chamber: let us just let it settle for a moment. Let's think this through. There's a lot to ask. It might also be good to include this in the discussions we are having with people and with organisations that are fighting against discrimination and racism. These talks are being held, which are being planned, and we are holding them, including other rulers. I can imagine that the cabinet will then return to these points in the autumn: the State Commission, the coordinator and the way in which we could address this important issue. Then we can come back to that in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u348	Yeah? Mrs. Marijnissen was there earlier, but okay. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u349	Mr President, I think that is practical, because this is about a proposal. It almost sounds like a kind of pre-opinion on the proposal. I think it would be very good if the cabinet were to work out how such a state committee should be set up, but it is not that it has not been thought about yet. On the contrary, I think that the nature of the problem, with which the Minister fully agrees, affects the constitution somewhat. The minister also started the constitution. I think that would justify such a committee. But of course I fully understand that if the Court were to make that statement, an effect would have to be found which would take account of all the different initiatives that exist. But I am convinced that it is necessary and useful in itself. I am actually listening to the Minister in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u350	Mr Asscher has indeed heard that very well. I would just add that it was a state committee and three coordinators, and we also have the Human Rights College which has also issued an opinion on it. I think that we should be able to do so in the context of a structure which actually covers all of this. That would be my proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u351	Minister Ollongren speaks true words about discrimination and that is not allowed. We've been talking about that for quite some time. That's what the Minister says. We've been on the road with this cabinet for a while, so I'm actually curious how many discriminatory brokers or discriminatory temporary agency agencies have actually been dealt with in concrete terms and have already been fined, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u352	I can answer that question now. I've got it on my set, too, but he's actually on the last topic I wanted to do. So I'll leave it to you, Mr. Chairman, whether you want me to do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u353	I'm also looking at Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u354	Or Mrs. Marijnissen, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u355	Do you want the Minister to come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u356	If the Minister has the answer ready, please. Otherwise, I'm just gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u357	Sure. I need to look it up. The temporary employment agencies were under the heading 'work market'. Mrs Marijnissen has indeed asked about the temporary employment agencies. There will be a bill from SZW's colleague, which gives the SZW inspection supervisory powers to tackle labour market discrimination. It also focuses specifically on temporary employment agencies. Temporary employment agencies should also have at their disposal and method of recruitment and selection of staff, including for the staff they lend to employers. That's their job. The reverse is that if you are borrowing staff, you need to be able to make sure that the lender has an adequate working method. We can't discriminate. In the run-up to the legislative change, the SZW has carried out exploratory inspections, including at temporary employment agencies, to also have more factual material, to build a basis in the information position. No fines have yet been imposed, but that is for the simple reason that the inspection is not yet competent to issue fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u358	That, I think, is at the heart of the problem, which rightly disturbs a lot of people. This has been discussed for a very long time, in this Chamber and outside. We kind of disapprove of it all. We can't have discrimination. In the meantime, examples have been published in the media. A good study has been carried out by De Groene Amsterdammer on discrimination in housing. On the television programme Radar you can see in the picture that temporary employment agencies discriminate on their own. And now we hear: there is not yet a zero penalty. When you read the cabinet letter of 15 June, the criticism is right that there is a lot of talk about pilots, 16 times, and about investigations, 67 times, and about programs, 15 times, but when it comes to fines for discriminatory brokers or discriminatory agencies, it is zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u359	There is a frustration from the words of Mrs Marijnissen, whom I do understand. I have said what is going on with SZW with the broadcasting industry: step by step towards legislative change and more inspection powers. Let me also mention the example of the brokers. Mr Jetten asked about it and Mrs Marijnissen called it now. I've been through that frustration. A journalistic investigation revealed that there would be discrimination. The Chamber called attention to that. Then, as a minister, you start talking to the sector. Well, the sector says that they don't really recognize the signals, but they're going to investigate it, because they don't want to see discrimination. And so you go step by step on your way to an approach. Are you gonna be okay soon enough? No, but it does mean that we have to keep paying attention to it and it also means that we should not give up. With those tenants and the discrimination on the housing market, we also did research ourselves, which showed that there is discrimination in the housing market. We looked at instruments ourselves, of which we initially found it a bit exciting to use them. Can you get involved as a government with instruments like mystery guests in real estate? We are going to do it anyway, because we want to tackle the persistent problem. It's going slow, but it's going well, and we have to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u360	We agree that we must continue, but it is certainly too slow. I find it appalling that the law referred to by the Minister was already announced in 2018. I understand that the proposal has now been sent to the Council of State. It's all going on for a really long time. The minister says we were very excited, but we're still going to work with mystery guests. But that's not new, is it? I thought we knew you had to use those methods to expose it. You can actually catch temporary employment agencies or brokers who discriminate, in the act, and then punish them. I find it very painful that I want to say this tonight in this debate that we have been talking about this for so long, that the cabinet has been on its way for quite some time and that we have to note that there are still zero fines handed out to discriminatory temporary agency agencies or discriminatory brokers. Of course we can't give up, but I do think the cabinet is inadequate. This is something that has been mentioned for so long. I just mentioned: we're 67 studies, 15 programs and 16 pilots ahead. The point is, we're gonna take care of it. Otherwise, nothing's ever gonna change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u361	Yes, but it is also a question of keeping up, especially in the real estate business or with the tenants and with the temporary employment agencies, but there are also many other examples. It's not this cabinet that's gonna do that for the first time. This is something that's been going on for a while. We must continue with this step by step. Let's just get to that point of the law. Mrs Marijnissen asks why that law is still not there. We had a challenge and, in fact, a call from the government agreement to tackle labour market discrimination more firmly. This led to the conclusion of SZW's colleagues that there was a need to amend the law in order to give the inspection the real powers needed to do so. That's a legal process. The bill is indeed before the Council of State and colleagues expect to be able to present the proposal to the House of Representatives at the end of September, beginning of October. Will that take too long? Maybe. But it's gonna get there, and we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u362	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u363	Mr. Chairman. Then a few words about the dialogue on the history of slavery. I am pleased that some Members have mentioned this dialogue today, Mr Heerma, Mr Segers and others. It is indeed intended that this committee should organise and promote dialogue in society on the recognition and embedding of this shared past. That's important. As a result, people talk to each other and we also connect the past with the present. The committee must, of course, fill that out itself, but it will do so at all tables. Then the advisory board will issue a report with findings in the spring of next year. This was agreed on 1 May 2021. This dialogue could lead to various proposals to see how things could be different in social sectors. Historical research will also be able to help. The dialogue group will also be assisted by scientists. That is also the answer to Mr Segers' question. He asked: can historical research into the role of the government be part of the task of the advisory board? That can certainly be part of what the committee is working on. It may also be part of what they are about to deliver an opinion on. They are really free to do so, they have that possibility and they will undoubtedly do so. Then I come to Mr Asscher's question about Ketikoti as a national holiday. At the annual remembrance, Mr Asscher knows that in normal times very well is usually linked a big party. Ketikoti is a festive day and in several municipalities this happens more and more. Only this year, of course, it couldn't. That kind of celebrations that also arise from the bottom is valuable and something we should encourage. It is also always broadcast on our public network. In the Netherlands we have quite few widely recognized national holidays: Christmas, New Year's Day, King's Day and Liberation Day, that's it. So if you introduce a new holiday, that certainly raises the question of what that means for other parties or moments, which might also be eligible for it. My answer would be: it is already a national commemoration and it is a celebration and it is a choice for all of us whether you want it to be a national holiday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u364	Last question. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u365	I know, Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good answer in itself. I don't have a motion or anything to enforce. But I could imagine, because it is also a day when you can talk about where that slavery came from, and about racism, that it is given a more national character. As we celebrate Liberation Day once every five years, you can think of variants. So I would like to invite the Cabinet to make more of that than we are doing now, because it is also about recognition, which is an important symbol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u366	Thank you. I understand that. Here too, the dialogue committee will look at the role of the government in history. I have just said this in response to Mr Segers. The dialogue committee links the present to the past, or vice versa, perhaps I should say, and I can very well imagine that this is an issue on which the dialogue committee can also have thoughts, which then becomes part of the opinion. So it could come back on that route, too. Then about the role of the government. Mr Asscher asked about companies and the relationship between government and companies that would be guilty of discrimination or racism. Mr Asscher is well aware of this issue, as he said just now from his own role as minister in the previous cabinet. The cabinet now and the colleagues of SZW are examining the possibility of excluding companies convicted of discrimination from procurement. We are talking about discrimination, but also about other issues such as breaches of labour law such as collective agreements. Under the 2011 Procurement Act, an exclusion should be proportionate. A company should also be given the opportunity to improve its life. I don't think you should do that forever, but it could be a signal. The exclusion of companies should be a case-by-case assessment. The cabinet is watching that. The conclusion of contracts with companies, which might be in line with what Mr Asscher asked for, is that the general conditions of competition include that the contractors must comply with all applicable regulations in the field of working conditions and collective agreements. If a contractor does not comply, the contract may be terminated in the final case. There too, the requirement of proportionality applies. Mr Azarkan suggested that we should use additional resources, additional capacity, to combat racism and discrimination. He was talking about measurable targets. Like Mr Azarkan, I take the subject very seriously. For the third time now, I have sent a letter to the Chamber describing all the actions that are taking place. I have just admitted in the debate with Mrs Marijnissen that sometimes things are not fast enough and that perhaps we need to do more or do it differently. However, I do not think that we should say in advance: we need to bet more money now, whether we should use more or other action plans. I think it is more of a question of holding on to what we have already announced and keeping in mind that it remains high on our agenda. The measures are a long-term issue. Then I would like to answer Mr Klaver's question about the ban on discriminatory algorithms. There is a lot going on in the area of algorithms and also on how we could prevent them from operating discriminatoryly. Research has been done by Utrecht University on algorithms that make decisions. The opportunities and risks for, inter alia, non-discrimination have been considered. In the autumn, the cabinet will send a comprehensive cabinet response to this. It was a mission of the WODC at Utrecht University. I am developing system principles to prevent discrimination in algorithms as much as possible. Researchers will describe legal and statistical frameworks within which discrimination can occur. On the basis of the results of these investigations, the Cabinet can consider whether that problem can be effectively addressed by a ban or whether there are other means that work better for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u367	I'm also looking a little bit for a sense of urgency, maybe a spark of acceleration, a spark of hope for people who have long felt that they are excluded or have more difficult access to education or the search for a home. Then they would have the idea: this minister and this cabinet do something for me too. Indeed, the Minister has been in the process for some time and I have had a tough debate with her because I think that there is not enough urgency. As Mr Marijnissen said, we are making too little progress. I therefore find it too easy to say: we must persevere, but we do not have more resources. What can this minister, who specifically has the task of combating discrimination, indicate as a result of what is going on in society? When does she feel the urgency to say: from today we may have to do it differently? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u368	I share that urgency. I must say that I am extremely pleased with this debate and with the momentum that seems to have arisen. I don't remember the two first letters I sent from my coordinating role about discrimination getting as much attention as this letter. That's only good. Really, that's just good. And I want to do something for those tenants who are discriminated against or for young people who are discriminated against because they can't find an internship. 'Cause it happens. It happens every day. We can't accept that. The most important thing we can do is to name it, say it and encourage everyone. I told you, the cabinet can't do it alone. We must do it together with other parties. We must do it together with the employers. We must work with the training institutes. We need to keep talking to the real estate agents about what's going wrong. Even though they don't really want it, it just happens. So what we are doing here today is very significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u369	The minister said we'll be getting a report on that investigation by the end of the year. I mentioned SyRI. I also mentioned the IRS. Can the Minister promise that there is no system in the government where problems of this kind occur? Are there no systems in which people really look at origin and therefore people in the system dolls upwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u370	Mrs Van Brenn also asked that question in her first term. At the time, she was mainly talking about the Tax Office. She specifically asked whether this was not taken out of that system until 15 May. The Chamber has asked a lot of questions about this, and Mrs Van Brenn's question actually touches on that. My colleague in Finance, Mrs Van Huffelen, is obviously working on this, because we find it unacceptable. If Mrs Van Brenk asks me whether she can rule out the fact that in the systems of the public authorities there are quite a few such selection mechanisms have somehow crept into place, then I have to answer that I cannot rule this out. But we can say that, if we come across that somewhere, we will, of course, put an end to it immediately. That is exactly what is happening at Finance. The question I just answered was about using algorithms. That is why this research is so important, because I think we would never accept that the technique could apply this type of selection for us. Eventually algorithms, that's how I've always learned, are determined by the questions that man puts into the system. Anyway, I'd like to wait and see the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u371	Is that research going to help us answer the question I just asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u372	I'm assuming this is going to help us. Absolutely. Because we need to know how it works and we also need to know where we should take it if we want to have the assurance that it cannot be in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u373	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and a number of commitments. More specifically, on this point. It's a good thing we're running algorithm research right now. What we put in at the front actually determines to a large extent what those algorithms do next. If I were just listening to the Minister, she said in reply to Mr Klaver: we are going to see how we can ban and prevent decision-making algorithms, which contain racist elements. I would like to broaden that by looking not only at decision-making algorithms, but also at algorithms that are used to make risk assessments and thereby put people or groups in certain booths that get more attention from the government. Is that what the investigation is all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u374	I really need to check that out. I do not know exactly what the research assignment has been and how broad or how narrow it is. I also said that we are looking at whether a ban is the way to deal with it or whether there is a better way. But of course I am very happy to take Mr Jetten's comment. That can only help. Mrs Van Brenn has asked for a response to the Delta Plan against Discrimination against Discrimination.nl. That was presented very recently. That's right. I'm gonna study that plan, and I'm gonna come up with a reaction. I would like to say that to Mrs Van Brenn. Then there is the question of combating racism and discrimination in education. This point has been raised by several Members. I think Mr Segers was asking what we could do. He said that the core objectives of fundamental education are being revised, there is an opportunity; can we not use them to pay more attention to discrimination and racism? We also have agreements on this in the coalition agreement. And there is a motion recently adopted by Mr Van den Hul to pay more attention in education to the colonial past, racism, discrimination and the history of migration. As a result, OCW entered into a discussion with the initiators of the petition in which attention was paid to this issue. Recently, the new canon for education has been presented, which also focuses more on cultural diversity. It is really important to give citizenship education that quality boost, so that pupils know and respect each other and each other's cultures. There is a legislative proposal in your Chamber to clarify and strengthen the citizenship mandate. Mrs Marijnissen just mentioned the issue of highly educated white parents. It is clear, of course, that it is unacceptable that certain children should have fewer opportunities and could not go to the school of their preference. We want equal opportunities. We want to fight segregation. We want a national picture of admission policy and access to basic education. That investigation is being carried out and is in a final phase. You will receive the results after the summer. Schools must comply with the legal provisions on admission and refusal. Otherwise, of course, the Education Inspectorate can intervene. Mr Slob pays great attention to segregation in education and has recently promised to come up with a policy agenda segregation in the First Chamber. Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten asked about teacher training. Teacher training naturally lays the foundation for the competences that a teacher needs to discuss subjects in any case. The same applies to this subject. In particular, there is a need to support skills for discussing issues that are sensitive in the classroom. How do you ensure a safe environment where these things can just be discussed? This is happening more and more in the training programmes. In addition, the Foundation School and Security, commissioned by OCW, has developed a lot of materials for creating such a safe classroom and discussing topics. That material is used by the teachers. Mr El Yassini had asked for higher and university education. He said: it is important that the highly educated professionals of the future know how to act and how to combat discrimination. My colleague said that she would like to talk about this. That's what she does with the Association of Colleges and the VSNU. I share that point. It is of course important that the professionals of the future know that. That is why it is also good to report that, in collaboration with the Knowledge Platform Integration & Society and some of these HBO courses, a programme of equal opportunities is being developed. Mr. Chairman. Then the historical museum. Mr Heerma asked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u375	I welcome the Minister's answers. It indicates that the equal opportunities project focuses in particular on the accessibility of students in higher education. We also want to focus on the curriculum. Basically, you're preparing students to give more or less the middle finger to their boss when he says they can't hire Moroccans anymore. But that doesn't just apply to HRM training. It also applies, for example, to businessmen who make policies in their own organisation and can change, improve or strengthen part of the culture. On my work visits I often hear people say: I do not know what to do. We didn't actually learn it in high school and it's still not given. On the contrary, I would like that discussion to be discussed. I would like to add that not only the VSNU and the Association of Colleges, but also the MBO Council are included. In this way, we ensure that we engage in discussions at all levels of further education to give students tools for their future. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u376	In fact, that seems to me to be a very good point. I am happy to admit it, and I will pass it on to Mr Van Engelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u377	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u378	A separate museum or a separate department for slavery history. That was just the subject. Mr Heerma asked about it and so did Mrs Marijnissen. The Chamber knows, I think, that the municipality of Amsterdam and the ministry of OCW are currently exploring how a national museum facility for slavery history can be developed. So that's a place where slavery is told. That's the plan. It is not intended to become a department in an already existing museum. It becomes a separate place, where people deal with the whole history of slavery. You will, of course, be informed by the honourable Member. I had already had a number of points in the labour market. I would like to add one more point, because I thought Mr Heerma was mainly informing about the obligation to report. There is a law in the making of the SZW Secretary of State, which deals with the powers of inspection with regard to recruitment and selection of staff. That law is not yet in place, but indeed there is no obligation to report. Mr Heerma is right about that. The introduction of a reporting obligation sounds simple, but it is not. I think Mr Heerma knows that too. You have to make an accurate balance between the importance of the notification and the demarcation when and when no notification is required. What are the follow-up steps after such a report? How can it be shown that a reportable event was known when no mention was made? There are privacy issues. All these parts are really well looked at. There is also consultation with the temporary agency industry. I understand from Mr Van Ark that much progress has been made. The Secretary of State will be Mrs Van Ark's successor. After the summer, he will be able to provide you with further information on the practical implementation of this obligation to notify. Mr. Chairman. The one-after-last question I'm going to answer is about internship discrimination. Mr Heerma asked whether learning companies should not be dealt with over and over discrimination. Here too, the legislative proposal that I have just announced, because the obligation to provide equal opportunities for the recruitment of new staff also applies to the recruitment and selection of trainees. The last question was from Mr Heerma, about the use by the SZW inspection of the so-called Van Weyenberg funds. Structurally additional money is made available to the SZW Inspection to address labour market discrimination. Labour market discrimination inspectors are more than doubled. They've done a lot of work. There have been 240 exploratory inspections and 190 exploratory inspections in the first half of this year. They were all on the subject of labour market discrimination. So they'll be on top of the regular inspection. Research has been carried out thanks to these resources. The Chamber has been informed about this too. Here, too, we work with mystery guests at temporary employment agencies. A market exploration has been done to understand it even better. Here too, an algorithm has been researched and there have been certain focus groups. This will be the subject of a progress report to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u379	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand, a short question this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u380	A quick question. I've got three more. I mentioned it very briefly. I asked about the golden coach, but also about the protests against the monuments. I was wondering if the Minister could say something about that as a coordinating minister. I think we can conclude that those protests are justified. Of course, it would be good if we could put the right context in those controversial monuments. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u381	Then there is your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u382	I meant that I have three more interruptions, but I have one question for now, about the monuments and the context that is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u383	The question about the golden coach was answered by the Prime Minister. Oh, I thought you were also waiting for an answer to the question about the golden coach. I would, of course, like to say something about monuments, not because I am competent to do so from my portfolio, but that is okay. I think we can agree on the importance of placing something in the historical context, precisely because that historical context is changing. You're used to the image being there, and that's it, until people suddenly change their minds: it's actually more than a man or a woman on a pedestal. Then it is important to give that historical context. We see that happening more and more. We see museums do that and municipalities do that. Honestly, it's nice that there's an interest in that. That also means that we are thinking more about that history and trying to move that history forward to the present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u384	Good. Well, we're all agreed on that. I'll ask what the cabinet is going to do. With the controversial image in Hoorn, context has finally been placed with the image of Jan Pieterszoon Coen, but that is still a bit overflowing. There is talk of a criminal expedition, which gives you the impression that the people who lived there had to be punished for something. No, he just committed genocide there. So there is context to that, but it is still not good enough. So I have two questions. Are we going to create context and can we ensure that this is done in a democratic way, with the participation of Dutch citizens, so that it comes from the bottom up, to ensure that it becomes a good and explicit context? That would be it, as far as I am concerned, if I could say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u385	I tried to get very close to Mrs Ouwehand, but now I'm drifting away from her a little bit. 'Cause what's good enough? Who decides what the right context is? I think that in the case of Hoorn, the municipality of Hoorn must do so and has done so very well. Hoorn has also done so in a dialogue with its own city council and thus with its own inhabitants. If it's a museum, then I think that museum can do it itself and it has to decide for itself. I do not believe that we should sit in the seats of the municipalities, of the inhabitants, of the museums, of the scientists and of the historians. I think that they should do so and that we cannot determine what is good enough. I think it's important to do it, but I don't really want to talk about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u386	The last question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u387	I agree with the Minister when she says: I do not think we can do that here. But then she says: in Hoorn, the city council did. Yeah, but of course there's the same representation problem as here. So I suggest we make that a democratic process. I will table a motion on this and then we can see if we can agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u388	We'd like to meet them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u389	Thank you. The Minister for Justice and Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u390	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start immediately with the question that Mr Segers asked us. He asked us to reflect once again on the issue of institutional racism on our own responsibility as ministers. When I became a minister, I kept getting the question: why the Ministry of Justice and Security? Why do you call it that? I have always explained that this is because justice guarantees that we all have fair and just access to life and society: education, living, work, sport, culture and self-development. But without security, there's no justice. Security is a solid rule of law, in which you can stand up for your rights and know how to protect yourself. Discrimination, racism and, indeed, institutional racism are at odds with this and are flagrantly contrary to it. As Minister of Justice and Security, I am concerned that people feel inadequate because of racism. I want to turn that into action. I did so by doubling the penalty limit for inciting discrimination and violence in a legislative proposal. And since January 1st, thanks to your two chambers, that has been in force. I also do this by investing in specialised networks within the police in the field of discrimination and by investing in the National Expertise Centre Discrimination at the Public Prosecutor's Office, where specialized prosecutors also work. I am also doing this by talking to the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to see how we can make the approach to racism even more a priority, for example by examining whether its inclusion in the so-called Security Agenda is an option as a major priority. Finally, I am also doing it by looking at where Justice and Security can play a role in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods that are under pressure. I do this by helping people, especially young people, to achieve their opportunities, because equal opportunities mean, in the words of the English legal philosopher Dworkin, equality of resources. Mr. Chairman. This morning, in the presence of a few who are also here, I referred to Rabbi Hillel in the note I had in your Chamber about combating anti-Semitism. Rabbi Hillel said, "If I don't stand up for myself, who does? And if I stand up for myself alone, then who am I? If not now, when then?" That's what it's about, I think, right now. Mr Ollongren also said: now is the time to reflect on our society and to implement the improvements that can further eradicate racism. I want to do so, also in the near future, by making further improvements to our criminal and administrative law, by tackling hate-stowing, discriminatory expressions and expressions of racism, especially on the Internet. And I told you, I also want to do this by including a greater ambition in the Security Agenda on this issue. I come to a few questions that have been put to me, Mr President. Mr Asscher asked: are you prepared to provide specialization in the police and the public prosecutor's office? I've already described that specialization is already in place, especially in the D.A.'s office, but also in the police department. There is certainly another world to win. Specialised detectives are not so much the solution, I say quite honestly, because the starting point is that everyone should be able to contact all police officers and because it is also part of the training and further training that there is a good knowledge of discrimination and how to deal with discrimination. However, we work with the police with the networks of diverse craftsmanship, which have a place in all units and in which insight and knowledge about the different lifestyles and cultures in society has been combined. In this sense, there is at least the form of specialization. Mr Heerma and Mr Segers asked me about my response to the bill for the punishment of Christian Union and GroenLinks. I would also like to come to Mr Heerma's point about group swearing, but first of all I would like to talk about the law on increased penalties. As I said, as of 1 January of this year, there has been an increase in penalties for crimes for a discriminatory purpose, including inciting hatred. The proposal by ChristenUnion and GroenLinks is to include the discriminatory objective as a separate legal grounds for increased criminal liability. This may be complementary to that, but we must also avoid making it more difficult to apply discrimination in the event of a conviction, because it must be proved legally and convincingly. In this case, the practice is often more uncomfortable than the theory. I have therefore launched a study into the effectiveness of the current so-called codis policy. The first part of it was given to your Chamber on 15 June. The second part is now running, and that looks at the international perspective. I'd like to await that full investigation. I expect it to be ready after the summer. Then the cabinet will also give a policy response to the two parties' proposal. But there's definitely sympathy for it. As far as group defamation is concerned, that inciting hatred, discrimination or violence in relation to group defamation is actually a next step on the escalation ladder towards actual hate crime. Earlier, this was not reflected in the law, because both crimes were punishable by the same penalty. That has now really been changed with the entry into force of the law I have mentioned a few times. This increased penalty means that we are really on a next step off the ladder. That does not alter the fact that group termination remains, of course, still a criminal offence. Mr Klaver asked if I am prepared to investigate internal security and police discrimination. I had a conversation with the police about tackling diversity this spring. That approach has been renewed by the corps leadership. Under the heading Police for everyone... I won't give you a whole paper for the hour, but that approach is now really very bottom-up set up, while at first it was much more from top to bottom. It is now really intended that this should be taken up in the basic teams and that issues such as racism and discrimination should be discussed there. Furthermore, at the request of your Chamber, I initiated a police officer. Moreover, the safety, integrity and complaints offices also have a very good opportunity. At any rate, the issue that came up in the news today, however bad its content was, showed that colleagues at some point simply pointed out that things were happening there that could not be done. I would also like to express a great deal of support in this regard, and I have already done so personally for Martin Sittalsing, who says that the debate should take place. I called him this morning and said, "Martin, that's really got to happen." We agreed that on 8 July we would talk about this together in a sort of town hall with a large number of policemen, because we should have that discussion with each other and not point fingers directly. Mr. Chairman. You are used to me being ready for the last question, within twelve minutes. The question is about discriminatory brokers and temporary employment agencies. Can't you punish it extra heavily, also asked Mr. Klaver. The law does not distinguish between professional groups, and we should not want it to be. That does not change, however, as Mr Klaver knows, that I also believe that, from a judicial point of view, we should also pay a great deal of attention to this type of party in the area of criminal law and administrative law. Mr President, I am through. Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u391	Almost. I have a question for Minister Grapperhaus about racism in football stadiums. Last year, we were all here, too. Then it was hit again for the umpteenth time. Mendes Moreira, player of Excelsior, then faced racism in a football stadium in a horrible way. At that time, we adopted a proposal to more actively detect and punish those responsible in the stadiums and also to see how the criminal prosecution of racism could be even better. I was actually curious to see how that is now and whether it is sufficiently smooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u392	I must confess that I am very sorry to have to say something about the corona time, which is having a bit of a hard time. We made arrangements with the KNVB. The KNVB has now established a very strict directive. The Prime Minister can testify that I did indeed have a rather shabby conversation with the football association, because I felt that there was primarily a responsibility in the field of cameras and the like around the field, but also to pick it up. That referee was extremely brave. Let's just say that right here. That's a hell of a move. The problem is a little bit that, as you know, there haven't been any competitions with audiences since mid-March. We will probably only gradually see how this directive is going to work out in the next season. I would also like to say here that the board of the KNVB has been very cooperative in the elaboration of the agreements on this subject. It is also clear that it cannot go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u393	I understand. You're gonna be able to have an audience at the football games again. We know from the Prime Minister that he expects us all to whisper there. In that sense, there may still be time, but I am slightly sceptical about that. I think it is very good to keep this on the agenda, because I still know very well what the feeling was about the incident with Mendes Moreira. Of course we are all against discrimination, but that was such a feeling; that everyone here and also outside this Chamber felt. It was just enough. It was real enough. I therefore believe that it is good to maintain that feeling and to ensure that we really go further in order to combat racism in football stadiums more actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u394	Yeah, and also anti-Semitism and homo-hate. I had a bit of a chat with the KNVB about that; I told you. Again, we've gotten into that with each other. I must agree with Mrs Marijnissen. I have to go see next season that this really doesn't happen anymore. I still hope that divorce judges will be as brave in the coming year as the referee who used to say at the game: we're quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u395	Thank you. Good within the agreed time. Yeah, really. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u396	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas examples of discrimination by employers, brokers, under-selection in education, treatment in youth care and ethnic profiling show that there is unfortunately discrimination and racism in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas public authorities use dozens of algorithms that involve a risk of discrimination;]] [[Whereas mechanisms which are deliberately or unconsciously based on discrimination should be exposed and addressed;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a diverse State Committee on Discrimination and Racism, which, on a long-term basis, can investigate the state of racism in the Netherlands, make proposals and monitor the effects of policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-186]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u397	That's right. It's a short question. In the light of the Minister's reply, he said he would like to chew on that. Several proposals and measures have also come from the Chamber to take with them. Is Mr Asscher really going to put this motion to the vote or is he going to hold it to at least give the cabinet some time? 'Cause I'd like to know if there's another reaction from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u398	That is why I asked the Minister whether she was positive about it or not. But the fact that she's looking for space in the elaboration, I understand very well. So I shall put the motion to the vote, because I have the impression that it is also in line with what she herself thinks is useful. Then she has to come back to the Chamber and explain how she wants to fold these various initiatives. That seems to me to be the best course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u399	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u400	I think it fits in with the debate and also with the way in which the two of us have wanted to have this debate that you are trying to take steps to do something about it, without having the illusion that we have solved the problem tonight. 'Cause I don't have that illusion either. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas racism, discrimination and anti-Semitism are persistent problems in the Netherlands;]] [[believes that every child should grow up equal and unbiased;]] [[calls on the government to pay explicit attention to racism, discrimination and anti-Semitism in teacher training and training for youth workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas discrimination and racism occur in our society;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, temporary employment agencies, real estate companies and catering companies are responsible for this;]] [[believes that only a lick-on-piece policy will lead to lasting change;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to have only organisations and companies that have a strong anti-discrimination policy run public procurement, as public authorities no longer engage in business with organisations and companies that systematically engage in discrimination or racism and also allow, if any, the withdrawal of the licence;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-287]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u401	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate. There was the expected fuss and discussion, but below that we tried to have a serious debate on the persistent problem of institutional racism. Now it is important not to leave it at that, to stick to it and to continue to draw attention to it, just as long as people who are confronted with it every day experience improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u402	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to start my second term where Mr Asscher closed his. Journalist Marcel ten Hooven, former employee of Trouw and now working for the Groene Amsterdammer, said in his last booklet that politics has two tasks, which are very difficult to combine: on the one hand politicize and on the other hand pacifise. He sketches in that booklet how difficult it is to do both well, because sometimes very contradictory things are expected. The booklet is called The Decommissioning of Democracy. This suggests that his fear is that politics is still very good at the first and the second is a little lost. Anyone who looks at the images of this debate, even as they appeared in the media tonight, will have the same concerns. Because the impact of the debate is mainly about attacks, fights and so on. I don't think that's something we're all very proud of. At the same time, I share what Mr Asscher says. If you look at the content of the debate and at the links between all kinds of parties and the search to solve problems in society around racism and discrimination, then you see that those elements, so that we can pacify and resolve major political problems together, are also part of the debate. Let's hold that feeling together. I'm gonna close up for a little while. I supported a motion by Mr Asscher because I am convinced of his story about the value of such a state committee. I hope that, despite the somewhat cautious response of the Minister of the Interior, the cabinet will be in favour of this. Mr Jetten is going to table another motion to make it compulsory for temporary employment agencies to report and also for discriminatory applications on the housing market. I'll co-sign that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u404	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it has been found on several occasions that temporary employment agencies cooperate in the pursuit of discrimination on demand;]] [[considers that discrimination agencies should be firmly addressed by imposing a fine or removing them from the market;]] [[noting that the government is in the process of setting quality standards for temporary employment agencies, in accordance with the Bruins and Others motion. on proposals to combat malicious temporary employment agencies (35359, No. 20);]] [[calls on the Government to include the prohibition of discrimination in quality standards for temporary employment agencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u406	Then there's the other motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas segregation in education is highly undesirable;]] [[believes that it is by far preferable for children from different backgrounds to go to school with each other;]] [[noting that special schools may refuse pupils if they do not endorse the basis;]] [[states that schools should not refuse pupils if the school base is respected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u407	Mr. Chairman. Mail number one: Mr. Wilders, I'm a 66-year-old man. I like to ride a bike and over the last few weeks I was just out of nowhere called out by a group of dark people for cunt Hollander. The same thing happened to me today. A dark boy cycled towards me and I got swear words to my head. I'm not a racist. I'm always there for people, no matter their color. Mail number two: Mr. Wilders, I live in Scheveningen. People of African origin terrorize Scheveningen: water pipes, nitrous oxide and women are harassed. Scheveningen was a beautiful seaside resort, but is now the Tangier of Morocco. Mr. Chairman. And then say or suggest that Dutch people are racists: the people should be ashamed! Then I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that the Dutch are not racists,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u408	Motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that Islamic ideology is the most discriminatory ideology in the world;]] [[points out that turning the Islamisation of the Netherlands will greatly help to combat discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u409	Finally, I have a motion on Black Pete. But it's about much more than Black Piet, because that's a symbol of sticking to one's own culture. That has nothing to do with racism. It's about preserving our culture and our national identity. We have to stick to that. That is what we have to decide on; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[says Black Pete must remain black,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-193]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u410	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the rulers for their reply and thank you to my fellow Members. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make a national day off from 1 July and also a day of reflection on slavery and the colonial past,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in order to place focus and weight in the fight against discrimination, to appoint a National Coordinator for Combating Discrimination (NCDB) with sufficient resources, which has access to the Council of Ministers to make proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to continue to ensure that human rights and anti-discrimination are a recognizable and important part of the new core objectives of primary and secondary education and that it is widely and firmly anchored in education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares that Black Pete is a hurtful caricature, which does not fit the present tense,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to carry out in-depth research into microaggression (unequal opportunities and unequal treatment of students with a migration background) and institutional racism in higher education, and to involve the National Student Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[declare that the establishment and use of risk profiles of which ethnicity is a part is contrary to the prohibition of discrimination and Article 1 of our Constitution;]] [[develop policies to ensure that law enforcement officers in the service of the government no longer establish and apply risk profiles of which ethnicity is a part;]] [[to act against officials who draw up and apply risk profiles of which ethnicity is a part,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Jetten and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-194]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3095-195]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-196]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-297]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-298]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-199]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u411	We're almost there, Mr. Chairman. I have 43 seconds left and I'm going to promise you I'll have time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of the ECRI's opinion report (2019), to introduce binding rules on reasonable suspicions so that powers for controls, surveillance and investigation can only be carried out on the basis of objective criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-200]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u412	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a wide-ranging review of all government executive services on the basis of professional discrimination and ethnic profiling;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-201]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u413	It's all I need to thank you for presiding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u414	Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u415	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the answer and some nice promises. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas slave trade and slavery took place on a large scale and played an important role in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas people who were enslaved were sold, employed and driven to death under inhumane conditions;]] [[Whereas our slavery history continues to work in today's society and leads to feelings of exclusion;]] [[whereas the cabinet has expressed deep regret and repentance and has recently launched a dialogue aimed at the broad recognition and embedding of the slavery past in our society;]] [[calls on the government, in the context of this broad recognition, to apologize for the role played by the Netherlands in the past of slavery,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that racism is still taking place in the Netherlands;]] [[considers that public authorities should pursue the principle of an inclusive employer;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a national coordinator for discrimination and racism to address discrimination, racism and to ensure greater inclusiveness in government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that racism leads to inequality of opportunity in finding a job or home;]] [[noting that racist and discriminatory requests to intermediaries on the labour market and the housing market regularly occur;]] [[noting that the government has repeatedly been called upon to establish a reporting obligation but does not implement it;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a reporting obligation for racist or discriminatory requests to labour market intermediaries and the housing market;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-202]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr El Yassini, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Segers, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-203]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u416	Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to express my respect for those many young people and old people who have gone out on the streets in recent weeks to protest in the context of Black Lives Matter. I fear that many of them have been watching this debate and have not fully understood what politics has done about it, but I think it is up to all of us in the coming months to show that we are serious, that it is not only the fine words of today and all those motions that we are tabling, but that we are actually taking concrete steps to better eradicate racism and discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u417	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u418	Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as one of the last European countries, the Netherlands abolished slavery in 1863, but virtually all enslaved persons remained under state control until 1873 and ended slavery for many only in 1873;]] [[Considering that the end of this grey page in our history deserves to be fully considered;]] [[calls on the government of the year 2023 to make a commemorative year commemorating the abolition of slavery 150 years ago,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas ethnic profiling takes place in many places in our society, both by government and by private organisations and companies;]] [[Whereas the use of algorithms, for example, in the Tax Administration, in municipalities and in parole is a major way of using algorithms to detect fraud and crime;]] [[Whereas, for example, the assessment of mortgage applications and insurance may involve (indirect) ethnic profiling based on postal codes;]] [[points out that people should never be disadvantaged on the basis of their origin by the government and by private organisations and all forms of direct and indirect ethnic profiling are undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the use of risk profiles in the public and private sectors contributes to ethnic profiling and to come forward with proposals to address this in the run-up to the next cabinet formation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-205]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Jetten, Mr Asscher, Mr Azarkan and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u419	As an explanation of the last motion, the following. The Minister has indicated that there will be an investigation this autumn, so perhaps this is unnecessary, but that was about decision-making algorithms. This is really about the risk profiles that are being identified. That is a difference; hence this motion. If this is all part of the investigation and the motion is unnecessary, I will love to apprehend her. Mr. Chairman. In the final seconds I have, I would like to say that I liked and disappointed the debate at the same time. Good, because I think we are trying to take a lot of concrete measures together to put an end to institutional racism. Disappointing, because it continues to be as if they are two extremes in the discussion, and we must remain in the middle. I really want to say that naming racism and calling it that is not an extreme, but should be the core of what we should all be doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u420	I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u421	Thank you, Mr President. Ketikoti: Today we commemorate the history of slavery. It has been extraordinary to have a debate on this day. I did not always find it as uplifting, but well, apparently that is still part of this debate. Let's put that behind us as soon as possible. I would like to say that I appreciate the movement that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet are making, but I also agree with Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. Racism is not an opinion, so you have to make room for the movement that society simply needs to go through, but you should not run away from naming what racism is and you should side with people who are affected by racism. So there is still a step to be taken. But the Prime Minister did offer an opening. I talked about the golden carriage. He said he's in restoration now, and we don't know what we're gonna do when he's done. Well, the Animal Party does have a proposal for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the golden carriage has a prominent place in our society but is a symbol of Dutch colonial history, including racist images;]] [[noting that the golden carriage is currently being restored and will not be used again until 2021;]] [[whereas the golden carriage can no longer be used in the same way, but the golden carriage and the Dutch colonial past must not be forgotten;]] [[calls on the government not to use the golden coach in its old capacity, but instead to use it for broad, democratic and solution-oriented awareness of institutional racism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u422	Mr. Chairman. Then my second motion, which is about the monuments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is disputed heritage in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the meaning of heritage is not chiseled in stone, but is shaped by a social process whereby people in the present assign meaning to objects and symbols of the past;]] [[calls on the Government to map all the disputed heritage in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to then facilitate society to find a different, self-critical way of dealing with this heritage from below in a democratic way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u423	Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. I read in the newspaper this evening a very nice summary of the attitude towards racism, as addressed by my group. Someone said: we should not deny racism or exaggerate racism. It may sound very simple, but I think it's extremely important. If we deny it, we don't do justice to the pain points that people experience. On the contrary, I think it is very good that in all sorts of conversations these points of pain come out, even though in many cases this is not racism at all in the sense of the inferiority of treating others on their origin, but it is a stereotype, a stupidity, an unwelcomeness, which can also cause people a great deal of disadvantage. But if we're gonna overdo it, everyone could feel like I'm a racist. An entrepreneur e-mailed me this evening: I work with greats from Surinamese, Turks, Moroccans and Serbian staff, but when I see your debate, I get the feeling that I am racist, even though I don't say it, because it acts systemically on me unnoticed. Then we are also sowing a lot of removal and incomprehension. That is why we should not overdo it, nor should we become deeply subjective about what is meant by racism if you are not careful. That doesn't really help anyone. Honestly, I've had that feeling tonight. Sometimes it's made very wide. Mr. Chairman. Finally, looking back on the past. My group considers it very important that we do so about all the episodes of our history, and also when we talk to others about episodes from their history. We also have to face the dark pages openly. My group appreciates that it has also been said from that perspective of deep regret and remorse about those pages in our history. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u424	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mrs Van Brenk has the floor. And then Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u425	Mr. Chairman. Almost preceded the VVD. You can't do that. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for responding to the proposals of discrimination.nl. I like having that commitment. I still want to share with the Chamber what I heard so briefly this week. I have a fantastic personal associate, a young Turkish woman, a fantastic person. She bought a new house. The kids are playing in the neighborhood and she's getting to know new people. Someone comes to her and asks her, "Are you done getting married?" I wouldn't have thought of it. How could you ask such a thing? When you think that someone might hear things like this regularly, I think: let's all think better before we throw something out. We have to do it together. I'm just saying, no one should go through that. I hope that this debate will contribute a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u426	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Now it's your turn, Mr. El Yassini, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the answers to the questions and thank the Chamber for the discussion we are having and the discussion we are having about discrimination and racism. I keep saying it's not the first time we've done this. We've been doing this for a long time, for years, and we're gonna keep doing this. Every time those steps to those equal opportunities that are also incredibly important for the VVD. I had two motions, but I received a commitment from the cabinet that the cabinet will talk to the MBO Council, the colleges and the universities, so that we can prepare tomorrow's leaders for possible allies for equal opportunities. I'm very happy about that. I do have a motion on diversity, because there was also a discussion in the Chamber about what diversity is. I don't see myself as diverse because my parents were born in Morocco. I see myself as diverse because I may think something different than people in my group generally think or because I just have a different life perspective or because I have different experiences. Hence my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current government's diversity policy is often based on ethnicity, ethnic or cultural background or colour;]] [[believes that diversity is not only ethnicity, origin, gender, orientation or skin color, but also, above all, values, perspective and understanding of life;]] [[calls on the government to examine how the government's diversity policy can be extended, by looking in particular at other factors such as values, perspective and understanding of life, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member El Yassini. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u428	A very short question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u429	I wonder what the motion means. Values, insight in life... I would love it if, before we have the debate on the government statement with a new cabinet, we could all know how they feel about the bio-industry, whether they are vegetarians, or whether they dare to say whether Black Piet is racism or not. If it's going to be such a checklist, it's gonna be a lot of fun, but if it doesn't, it won't mean anything. Can Mr. El Yassini explain what he means?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u430	You know what doesn't say anything? My ethnicity. I'm just gonna finish my story, and I'm gonna take my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u431	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u432	Well, let's do it. This is what we see in society. We're making this a point of rejecting on the basis of someone's ethnicity. We all find that horrible, because we don't think that a person is just his ethnicity, skin color or origin, or that we reduce someone to the place where his parents were born. We debated this today and everyone was absolutely clear about it. At the moment when I turn that medal and show the other side, I suddenly see, as with Mrs Ouwehand, amazement because they don't get it. It's very simple, isn't it, that when you talk about diversity, which is completely different from reflection, you talk about how people actually are? In a team you have diversity and there people with different perspectives and insights can find and strengthen each other and absorb each other's weaknesses. That is why I am tabling the motion, because I want the cabinet to look into it and take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u433	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand. Very briefly, because we talked about this for hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u434	I'll ask you a question about it. Then when we vote against the motion, the VVD says: oh, so you just want people based on their ethnicity in the cabinet, don't you? Of course, that's not a suggestion that's right. I totally agree that you have to judge people by what they can do and what they do. But we are also dealing with structural underrepresentation, of women, of people with different ethnic backgrounds. I'm for more women in the cabinet. And then I say, don't take Mona Keijzer as the CDA's list leader. Well, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u435	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u436	But then the VVD knows that my group will vote against for that reason and not because of Mr El Yassini's suggestion. You have to judge people by what they can do and what they do. We totally agree with that. But this is a diversion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u437	This isn't a diversion. This is exactly what this is about. If we all note that there is still a great deal of work to be done to get a good reflection in society, in politics, in business and elsewhere, we can conclude that, as I said in my term, equal opportunities are not yet the case for certain groups and people. Let me finish, because this is crucial for the social debate in society. A lot of people are watching this. I'm gonna finish it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u438	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u439	The Animal Party actually says: what we're going to do is we're going to try to compensate one injustice on the one hand with injustice on the other, for example, by saying: you know what, since people have been rejected in the past on their ethnicity, we now want them to be adopted on their ethnicity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u440	This point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u441	And I'll pass for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u442	Thank you, Mr. El Yassini. I understand there's a need for a suspension until 11:30. Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u443	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u444	Mr President, thank you. After me, Mr Grapperhaus will speak and then the Prime Minister will close it. I'll go straight to the motions. The motion in part No. 186, tabled by Mr Asscher, deals with the state committee. I had already responded with kindness, as Mr Asscher noted. We're gonna have to work something out. I would also like to see it in conjunction with a number of other motions, the motion in part No. 195 and the motion in part No. 203. But I think it's clear that we're aiming for the same thing. I'll give you the motion in part no. 186, please, Judge Room. In the motion in part No. 187 The government is invited to pay explicit attention to racism, discrimination and anti-Semitism in teacher training and training for youth workers. This is largely in line with what the colleague wants. I therefore leave this motion to the House to decide. The motion in part No. 188, also tabled by Mr Asscher, is a little more complicated. That motion is very broad, if you look at the scope you would like to apply. I can't quite promise that we could do it that way. I would also like to draw attention to proportionality. However, the wording of the motion is too broad in the opinion of the cabinet. We therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u445	Mr Asscher, very briefly on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u446	I must, of course, consult with Mr Jetten, but if I added to the motion 'in accordance with the principle of proportionality', would the vote on the motion change? That seems to me to be the most important objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u447	That's right. I explained in my first term that there is always a question of proportionality. I have to agree with Mr Asscher; if he adds that, it might make it easier. But I still have a hard time overseeing it. If there is a judicial judgment, then it is requested in the motion actually standing policy. And if there is no judicial judgment, then it is complicated in terms of scope. So I would like to add it, but I still find it difficult to say: Judgement Chamber. I cannot promise that we will actually be able to live up to it. I also refer to the past that Mr Asscher himself has as Minister of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u448	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u449	Of course, I'm always sensitive to that. But the nature of such a vote in the Chamber in the case of a motion is not an amendment. The motion is not intended to change the existing legislation or to change the practice of law suddenly, but to allow the Court to give a ruling on the basis of which the government can see how it implements it. It is precisely with the addition of the principle of proportionality that the government could benefit. In any case, that is Mr Jetten's intention. And then I expect more...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u450	I believe that Mr Asscher is now giving a great deal of space to the cabinet in order to implement this in a certain way. If the proposers want to add the phrase on proportionality, I can see the possibility of doing so in the way that we think it can be done. In that case, I could indeed leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u451	Asscher/Jetten motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas discrimination and racism occur in our society;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, temporary employment agencies, real estate companies and catering companies are responsible for this;]] [[believes that only a lick-on-piece policy will lead to lasting change;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure that, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, only organisations and companies which have a strong anti-discrimination policy have public procurement contracts, as public authorities, no longer engage in business with organisations and companies that systematically engage in discrimination or racism and that, if they do so, they may withdraw the licence;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 188 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u452	The motion in part No. 189 by Mrs Marijnissen, on quality standards for temporary employment agencies. In fact, that refers to Mrs Van Ark's bill. I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 190 in the operative part, the words "express that' shall be used. There is no need for the cabinet to comment on this. That also applies to the motion for a resolution on item No. 191, the motion in part No. 192 and the motion in part No. 193. The motion in part No. 194, by Mr Azarkan, goes a little further than what I just said in my first term around...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u453	Mr Wilders has a question about your comment on the words'spoken'. If the operative part of a motion says "speaks out," it means that it is something that concerns the Chamber. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u454	That's exactly what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u455	This is usually the case with motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u456	That's exactly what I meant. The motion in part No. 194 by Mr Azarkan goes beyond what I said in my first term. This is a national day off. That is why I would advise against this motion. However, it has already been promised that the nature of 1 July and its festivities will be communicated to the Dialogue Committee. In the motion in part No. 195 calls for a national coordinator to combat discrimination which has access to the Council of Ministers. I have already promised that a letter will be published in the autumn in which I will also address the state committee and the various requests for coordinators. That committee can also comment on what Mr Azarkan asked for in his first term. However, we do not see it entirely in front of us that there is also a national coordinator who has direct access to the Council of Ministers. Mr Azarkan could hold the motion, if he so wishes, and just wait and see how the cabinet intends to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u457	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u458	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (30950), No. 195). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u459	Then the motion to part No. 196. It deals with the key objectives of primary and secondary education and its anchoring. We see this motion as fulfilling the citizenship mission. I'd like to give the judgment room. The motion in part No. 197 is a "spoken" motion. In the motion in part No. 198 is being asked to carry out in-depth research. The Minister of OCW is already working on this and is also willing to do so and to involve the students. We can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 199. It's about risk profiles. I have just said in the debate with Mr Klaver that we are investigating the use of algorithms. I would really like us to wait and see the results and not say that we are going to act while the investigation is ongoing. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u460	I see Mr Klaver standing, but this was a motion from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u461	This was indeed not Mr Klaver's motion. This was another motion. Grapperhaus will return to the motion in part no. 200. Mr Azarkan asks in the motion for a resolution for item No. 201 to a very wide-ranging review of all executive services of the government. I think that is too broad an assignment to give to us now. I am in the process of answering parliamentary questions on this subject. Those answers are coming. Here too, I can therefore suggest to Mr Azarkan that we hold the motion and see what I can say to him in reply to the parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u462	Would it give you more space if I removed the word "wide"? Then the government will be able to carry out that screening itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u463	I would appreciate that very much, but I would like to ask you to hold the motion and first read the answers you receive from the cabinet to the questions that have been put precisely on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u464	I'm thinking about holding on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u465	And if Mr. Azarkan doesn't hold the motion? Then what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u466	Even if the word "wide" is out, I think the motion requires more than we can do in this way. So I wouldn't advise her anyway. The Prime Minister will return to the motion in part No. 202. The motion in part No. I would like to include 203 in the letter which will also be addressed to the State Committee and the related issues. So you could say: I will hold the motion until we have received the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u467	I listened carefully to the Minister's reply in the previous period. If she wants to interpret the motion in this way and she wants to include it in that letter, I would like to put the motion to the vote, but I accept that it will be included in the letter that will follow in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u468	That's actually a nice solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u469	And then it's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u470	Then it's judgment room. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 204. Is that right? Yeah, I hear you. Great, everybody's keeping track. The motion is about reporting duty. I've already explained that there are a lot of hooks and eyes attached to that. For all kinds of reasons, that's really complicated. Part of that also requires legislative changes. I really want to be very sympathetic to anyone who insists on this. I see this is coming wide from the Chamber. It's about the labour market. It's about the rental market and the housing market. But there really is still a lot of work to be done. As I said, Van Ark will inform the Chamber about her territory. I'll do the same for the housing market. I was actually hoping that the Chamber would also wish to continue this motion until we are a little further, so that the Chamber has been able to understand the complexity of this. But again, it's with the attitude that we really want to do everything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u471	And the verdict is? Or perhaps we should first look at what Mr Jetten is going to do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u472	I have every respect for the Minister's response at the moment, but the Chamber has already so often asked for this kind of notification obligation that I will have this motion put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u473	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u474	I think it's best that we just wait for that vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u475	What about judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u476	And see what comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u477	And what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u478	The opinion is that we say that we are sympathetic to the wish, but point to the complexity of the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u479	But what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u480	Hey, Mr. Chairman. You're holding on, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u481	Yeah, because everyone wants to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u482	I think I have said so many times now how complicated it is, that I can rely on the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u483	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u484	The Prime Minister will return to the motion in part No. 205. The motion in part No. 206 is Mr Klaver's motion, which he just stepped forward for. If I have listened to him correctly, he said at the time of filing that he would be willing to arrest her until I myself have properly determined whether this part is also in the investigations I referred to. If Mr Klaver wishes to continue the motion, I will ensure that the Chamber is informed. Then as soon as that information gets there, I can see if she's relevant enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u485	I would actually like to ask whether the Chamber could be informed before the votes. It's simple: is it in or isn't it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u486	The moods are tomorrow, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u487	Yeah, but I'm not asking for an investigation. I'm asking if the risk profiles are in the investigations or not. That is a very simple question, I think. Then we can just vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u488	I'm gonna do my best. It's almost tomorrow. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u489	What are you trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u490	To inform the Chamber tomorrow. The motion in part No. 207 is for the Prime Minister. The motion in part No. 208 is Mrs Ouwehand's motion on heritage. That was exactly the point where we drifted some apart. I really don't think that's a job for the Empire. I'm dissuading the motion. To the motion in part No. 209 by Mr El Yassini I give judgment Chamber. With that, I was at the last motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u491	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u492	Mr. Chairman. Even now, I can be quick. The motion in part No. 200 on the ECRI's advisory report, I advise. In the letter of 4 June 2019 I discussed this in detail. Furthermore, on 1 January 2020, the Re-evaluation Act entered into force on current forms of crime. It also addressed a number of recommendations of the opinion report. Finally, the application of powers is already sufficiently regulated in the appointment of the Public Prosecutor. There is therefore no need for legislation. Then there is another motion without a number, but it is from this morning's anti-Semitism debate. I'm gonna take a look at the member Jetten. I understand that D66 would like to put that motion to the vote tomorrow. Then I'll have to give you an opinion on that. It's the motion on specialized detectives. I don't recommend that motion. In the first period, I explained how the system has been restored to the police in recent years with these networks of diverse craftsmanship. In addition, in the course of training there is a thorough focus on discrimination as a subject for all police officers. We shouldn't put a link between that right now. So I'm going to have to discourage that motion, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u493	Thank you. You're gonna have to wait for the office to be cleaned, Prime Minister. The President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u494	Mr. Chairman. I have one question to answer, a few motions for resolutions, and finally I would like to say something. The question was from Mr Hiddema. He asked if it wouldn't be wise for me to play Piet to show that a confrontation with Piet doesn't have to be painful, but a confrontation with Mark Rutte does. Of course, I've hesitated about that for a long time. I'm not gonna do it anyway. The reason is the first law of Bomans: we believe in Saint Nicholas and Piet until our seventh, then there comes a period of doubt and from our 20th we believe in it again. But this confrontation with me might give the impression that Piet and Saint Nicholas don't exist. That's didactically unwise, so I'm not gonna do it. The motion in part No. 197 has already been treated by Kajsa Ollongren. That's a "spoken" motion, so the cabinet doesn't have to judge it. The motion in part No. Mr Jetten (ED). - Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Jetten on his excellent report. The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Even with the NIS, it's a big deal: no excuses, but a year of remembrance. This motion calls for a year of remembrance and therefore seems superfluous to me, but the Chamber's judgment is also good. The motion in part No. 207 over the golden carriage, I'm not sure. I really think we should take a look at what exactly we're going to do with that carriage. I also think we should be careful to narrow the meaning of a carriage to a view of a part of the golden carriage. Moreover, it also, of course, affects Article 41 of the Constitution. Madam President, I would like to conclude with a few observations. I think this was a very special debate, begun in response to the terrible death of George Floyd. It is also a debate on a special day, because it is 1 July and that is Ketikoti's day. It was about structures, institutions, intentions, symbols, groups and people in our history. I think the common denominator was that racism and discrimination, yes, are wrong, but the common denominator was also that they do not disappear from our society by acclamation. It's also had a hell of a crack and a tear. That in itself is not bad when it comes to a matter of significance, but I also noticed that there was a lot of content in the debate and that there were a lot of moments of rest. The representation in the outside world may not reflect exactly what has been discussed here. What also struck me was what Mr Van der Staaij said. He said that, regardless of our origins and origins, we were torn from the same cloth. Against this background, it is my conviction that, in our parliamentary democracy, but also in society, joint results can be achieved through consultation and dialogue. In doing so, I expect this debate to contribute to the important task set out in Article 1 of our Constitution, namely to combat discrimination and ensure equal treatment. That's why I think this was an important day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u495	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-8.u496	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I thank the Prime Minister. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice and Security. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the messengers, the clerks and the people who have followed this debate.
