ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the General Political Reviews, 35570, Note on the state of the government's finances. I shall open the debate and give the floor to Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is for the second consecutive year that the Forum for Democracy Group in this House can discuss general political policy with the government. I look forward to that. When we were standing here last year, everything went well, the government agreed. The unemployment rate was nice and low, there were many vacancies and the government's income was nice and high. Only the cost of care increased a little too much; it had to be cut back. But most importantly, we were going to be Europe's climate champion. In short, we were busy, so was the tenor twelve months ago. Only the shortage in the labour market was a bottleneck. A year ago, the government expressed satisfaction. The keyword was "cool." A year later, everything is dedicated to a virus that was imported from Wuhan ten months ago. The government didn't know what to do and the policy was swirling from group immunity to no group immunity, from schools to schools close, from all attention to intensive care to also attention to nursing homes and from no mouth caps to mouth caps. It is still difficult to assess what is the best approach. Only one thing is certain: all 120,000 government officials received a bonus on 1 July, although they do not have to worry about their jobs. Other people do. The employment of non-officials has been helped by temporary support measures. In order to distribute that money, the government has borrowed a lot of money. However, it has not yet been established whether the companies that get the money to pay their people through can survive. What is now clear is that our currency, the euro, has become unsustainable. That's what the President of De Nederlandsche Bank says now. But here in The Hague, money no longer seems to play a role. As I understand it, before we were here, this house was always called "coverage" when someone submitted a plan to spend more taxpayers' money. Then you had to tell me which other post you were going to cut. But we don't do cover anymore. Mrs Kaag, our Minister for Development, already wanted an extra billion for Africa, but that is small beer compared to the billions our Prime Minister promised in Brussels under the guise of corona to Italy, Spain and all the other Member States of the European Union, who have not complied with the rules of the European Stability Pact in recent years. Countries that were merry-go-rounded. Italy alone receives EUR 204 billion. What our Italian friends are going to do with that money, they don't know yet, but I'm sure they'll figure something out. The Prime Minister has told us in the House of Representatives that an emergency brake has been applied in case they are going to do crazy things, but we don't know if that emergency brake really works yet. Mr. Chairman. The government has rightly included in the next year's budget extra money for people and companies in the Netherlands who are having difficulties or are going to have difficulties. But that's borrowed money, that's debt, and that debt is higher than it needs to be. The Democracy Forum had expected that other planned expenditure would be postponed in times of need. We can't do everything at once. However, the government thinks it can do everything at once. We would think: well, the climate can wait a year now that we have faced the virus. But the billion-dollar Green Deal of European Commissioner Frans Timmermans and his assistant Diederik Samsom continues, just like all the 600 expensive plans of Ed Nijpels and the climate tables. They should ensure that the temperature in the world rises with an inedible 0.0007 °C less than would have been the case without those tables. And we all give subsidies for that, all with borrowed money. And we're borrowing a lot more. We do not need to travel to the Mediterranean Sea to find public debt of more than 100% of income. We also find them when we go on vacation in our own country. Zaanstad, to name but a few, has the same debt ratio as Greece. Bergen op Zoom is a financial Italy. I can give dozens of examples of municipalities that live far beyond their status. Tilburg is at the top of the list. And as in Italy and Greece, these municipalities did so in the years before corona. The virus has nothing to do with it. These are all hidden debts, which have to be repaid after this cabinet has left. These debts are still growing, because the home-working officials of all the municipalities in the Netherlands continue to spend a lot of money on plans during the corona crisis, allowing their municipality to contribute to less global warming. And whether that money is being spent efficiently is very much the question. But in this country, where money is available for everything, for the KLM, for IHC, for a bonus for civil servants, for climate change, for development aid to poor countries in Africa, for development aid to rich countries in Europe, in this country, where every immigrant who reports with a sufficiently pathetic story, a benefit and a home is offered, there is housing shortage in this rich country. There are 340,000 homes too few. Ordinary Dutch people can no longer afford their own house. Asylum seekers are immediately given a social housing, because for them municipalities have a housing obligation. For Dutch people there is a waiting list of years. Buying houses are priceless, there are no ordinary rentals. How is that possible? This cabinet no longer felt that a separate Minister for Living was necessary when he took office. The housing market worked fine, was the idea. Mrs. Ollongren could add Wonen to the Home Office. No country has as many housing corporations as the Netherlands. However, they fail to meet the demand for housing. And why not? Sometimes because of mismanagement and fraud, as with the largest, Vestia, in Rotterdam and The Hague, but mainly because they are busy with a lot of things other than building new homes. They are mainly concerned with the sustainability of their existing homes: double glazing in them, closing of natural gas and installing a heat pump.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr Frentrop points out that, in his view, there is an injustice, that there is a public obligation to provide housing for asylum seekers but not for the Dutch. Could it be a solution to impose an obligation on the public authorities to provide housing for all those on the territory? That sounds revolutionary, but that was natural. Since you were 18, you were entitled to independent living space, said Marcel van Dam when he was Secretary of State. Would that be a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u4	That would be a very nice idea in theory, but I don't think it's going to work in practice. In practice you can say: let's let fewer immigrants in, then there are more homes. I think that works faster and better than making it a kind of legal duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u5	I find that strange. You can also say: if you have too many house seekers, you have to get fewer house seekers by driving them away or not having them born. But I gave you the example of not so long ago. When I was a little younger, I experienced that we had a housing obligation. Every Dutchman over 18 years old was entitled to independent living space. I know that the Group of the Forum for Democracy attaches great importance to our history and tells a great deal about it. Our history tells us that housing was possible. Wouldn't it be better to give all people something more than to take something away from some people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u6	Again, I think it's a very sweet idea to force the government to provide a home for everyone. But I don't think this is the way to solve problems, impose a duty on the government, put a pot of money in front of it, and then wait and see if it happens. You can see that all kinds of other measures make it difficult to build homes in the Netherlands. You can say that someone has to do it, and you probably think that the government or the housing corporations should do it. They may want to, but they haven't done it in the last few years. If you see how few homes have been built by the housing corporations in the past few years, I've looked it up somewhere, I believe they've built some 700 new homes in five years...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u7	That's where we'll be later. Finally, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u8	I am honored that the spokesman for the Forum for Democracy has given me a sweet proposal. The socialists are not so bad in this country these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u9	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u10	I'd like to capitalize that on a motion. I also know that there is another motion to abolish the landlord's tax. If the largest opposition party in this Chamber supported both motions, we'll get somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you. Please continue your argument, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u12	We're not there yet, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kox is taking an advance. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the sustainability of all those homes the corporations are working on. I say get these corporations to build new homes. That sustainability will come back later when we have solved the housing shortage. And as I said, let's stop letting immigrants in until every Dutchman has a home first. Mr. Chairman. We live in uncertain times, but one thing is for sure in the longer term: you have to repay debts. The government has now borrowed a lot of money to save the economy. That is good, and that is necessary in times of crisis. But it's also wise to see which current expenses you can bring back, to see which things we're not going to spend on for a while. However, the government does not. What could we cut back on? I think first of all about small things. For example, municipalities could decide not to appoint city poets anymore. I am also thinking of bigger things: stop buying up and closing down well-functioning businesses such as farms and new power plants. I am thinking of even bigger things, like all the money that municipalities and corporations are now putting into projects to take homes off the gas. Let's stop that for a second. I am also thinking of development aid. For a year, no money to the Palestinians. We can do that in this crisis. But most of all, I'm thinking immigration. It's costing us billions. Let's stop it right now. Let's build enough homes for our own people first. And, Mr President, I hope my colleagues or the government do not find this plea populist. It's motivated by care. Nor should we give extra 750 billion to Ursula von der Leyen, Frans Timmermans and the 25 other European Commissioners who have not chosen any of us. Let us not give billions and lend them to our friends in Italy and in other countries where the sun shines. Besides, we don't have that money. Minister Hoekstra is likely to borrow 100 billion more than he intended when the RIVM said that we will not suffer from that virus in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I say to the Minister and to the Prime Minister what the Authority on Financial Markets says to all Dutch people: beware, borrowing money costs money. That's also true at low interest rates. After all, the money borrowed must be repaid. A high public debt is only sustainable if the borrowed money is re-invested in money-producing items. But the money the government now wants to borrow is consumer credit. And when the bill is presented, this government is gone. That money must be repaid by the young people in the Netherlands. One thing is certain in the long term: the policy that is now being presented is bad for our children. They later get the extra taxes on their plates, they have no increasing purchasing power since birth, they have no prospect of housing and they cannot count on the pensions promised. Mr. Chairman. We have not yet passed the low point of the crisis. Many people worry about their relatives, their jobs, their future and their children's future. We must address these concerns. For all kinds of beautiful air bikes, we don't have any money right now. Our prosperity and our earning capacity are being eroded. I am talking not only about the economy and figures, but also about our civilisation. In the ten years that Mr Rutte is now Prime Minister, Dutch education has deteriorated dramatically. In 2009 the Netherlands was still part of the international summit, now we are a midget. Since then, each municipality has its own city poet, but an increasing number of Dutch people can hardly read, let alone calculate. And that is also a mortgage on our future; an intangible mortgage. As your own Minister Kaag of D66 said at the opening of the academic year in Groningen, this government has not fulfilled the expectations in the field of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u13	Mr Frentrop talks about policy being disastrous for our children. That is not so much what you have just said as it actually triggered me, because in my head there is no rhyme that you remain a climate denier and that you keep saying that we can wait a year, while it is obvious that we are dealing with global warming and loss of biodiversity, and that now is the time to reverse the tide. So if something's bad for our kids, if that's what's worrying you, just like it worries me, then we should do something about it, right? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u14	It's a matter of priorities. You can say: we must do everything at once, tackle our climate and combat the unemployment that is coming. We say: let us first set the priorities for current things and let the climate wait for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u15	It can all be done fine, and if we wait another five or ten years, the climate will not be able to do so. We are dealing with a kind of tilting point that can no longer be reversed at some point. So it's actually much more damaging to the next generation. I am glad that you are concerned about this, but that is precisely what we will have to do. So I think you're making the wrong choice there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u16	Mr. Frentrop, you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u17	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u18	Mr. Frentrop is talking about wanting to prioritize. I understand that, because of course you can't do everything at once. But he is also talking about climate priorities. So my question is: what about the Forum in the climate? Are they critical of that? Are they climate deniers or are they in favour of tackling the climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u19	It's not my specialty, you know, all the climate sciences, but I think we're basically talking here about the broad lines of policy that we can't do that much about the climate. The climate is a natural phenomenon, which is something of the earth. I think we should adapt most of all, I don't think we should have the ambition... We say: there is nothing we can do about migration, that is a natural phenomenon. Well, that's something I think you can do about; you can just keep boundaries closed. But I do not think we should have the illusion that we in the Netherlands can contribute much to the temperature on earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u20	Then I am surprised that in the province of Brabant Mr. De Bie, deputy of the Forum, enthusiastically will implement energy policy. I am talking about sustainable energy policy. He even signed with the Brabant department: we are a reliable partner in the implementation of climate policy. So what is it now? You're gonna have to give me hoo-hoo or hoo-hoo. Are you in favour of the renewable energy transition or against the energy transition? It's got to be one of them, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u21	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u22	It's not all so black and white, it's not for or against energy. You have to do things, but with moderation and wisdom, and not waste money. Is that a short answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u23	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u24	Finally, I would like to make one final point. Mr. Frentrop is here in the First Chamber. It is our job to vote on laws: you are in favour or against. There's nothing in there either. We can say that there are shades of gray in between or whatever, but you're for or against. You are generally voting against climate laws here, but in the meantime you are doing something different in the province. I do not think this is a choice towards your constituency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u25	I do not think this comparison is entirely right. In a vote on a law, you can only do two things, namely vote for or against. But here you have an exchange of views on what the general policy is. With regard to the climate, I would say that the general policy is that we cannot do much about it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u26	I have a question on another subject that Mr Frentrop has just touched a few times, namely immigration. He also mentioned this in his reply. In one of his bits of speech he said: I hope my colleagues do not think I am populist. That's right, but it's intertwined at a number of moments. I have just given Mr Frentrop a cup of water because he needed it. I noticed that. I was behind you, so I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u27	I appreciate that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you. Now there are people in this world who are threatened with death, violence and so on. Should our country be closed to the people who can count on our Christian hand-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u29	I understand, of course, that point. A lot of people in the world are affected by the most horrible things. These things are often caused by political influences. The number of people affected by natural disasters has been significantly reduced in recent decades. Do not keep me to the exact number, but I believe that 37 million people in the world are becoming refugees every year because of some kind of conflict anywhere in the world. That is, of course, horrible, but, as with the climate, the question is what we can do about it in this house in The Hague. Can we say to all these people: come to the Netherlands? I don't think so. That is why the general policy of reception has been in the region for many years. As you offer me a cup of water, we will also offer those people, where we can, a cup of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u31	But I don't think it's the right approach to say to these people: do you all come into the Netherlands and then we'll give you a home, a washing machine and Dutch nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u32	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u33	I agree that you cannot say to those 37 million people: come in all of you. But you can't tell all those people to go somewhere else, because the whole world is currently dealing with a pandemic. A huge amount of money is spent in all countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr. Schalk, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u35	My question is whether there should be no exceptions to which, as the Netherlands, you really should not close your borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you. And then we move on, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u37	Can't I answer the question anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u38	Yes, I do. I said, "And then we'll move on." So that's after.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u39	No, we never closed our borders. We've let a lot of people in in the last few years. We're the most populated country in the world. We're having a huge crisis right now. There's a huge unemployment coming up. I think we have done well, but I would say that we should not do this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u40	Follow up on your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to close with three questions to the Prime Minister. My first question is: are you prepared to postpone all priceless measures in the Climate Agreement, such as removing gas from homes, until the corona crisis is over? My second question is: are you prepared to temporarily stop all immigration until the housing shortage in the Netherlands is resolved? My third question is: are you prepared to suspend all the commitments you made in Brussels in July to support other countries, under the guise of corona, until the Netherlands recovers its own finances from the corona crisis? In other words, public debt has been reduced to below 60% of gross national product. By the way, I would also like to ask: when is the government planning to pay off the debts we are going to incur? I do not need a precise date, but I would like to know if we will pay the extra debt before or after the Netherlands is CO2-neutral. What's the government's priority? Mr. Chairman. So these are four questions about policy priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u42	That puts you at the end of your input, Mr. Frentrop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u43	Yeah, I'm at the end, but I see there's still...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u44	Yeah, that's right, but you're done. Mrs Faber on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u45	Mr. Frentrop is talking about a temporary stop migration, but why not just a complete stop? Mr. Frentrop tells us first that we are the most densely populated country in the world. We have 17.4 million people here. About 100,000 of them are added every year. Why don't you just stop completely?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u46	Because as a newcomer to this house, I learned that politics is the art of the feasible. So let's stop temporarily first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u47	I'd like to respond to that achievable. If you're always looking for compromises, you're bowing to forced countries. By the way, that was a statement not from myself, but from Kissinger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Then Mr Rosenmöller was there first, I believe, on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u49	Mr Frentrop takes the size of the cabinet with regard to the large amounts of money spent in various areas and he says: you have to be careful and you should not waste money. My question is this. The cabinet intends to spend 4 billion on parts of business next year and the following year through the Job-related Investment Discount. In your view, is that part of the waste?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u50	I thought that was about tax cuts and tax refunds. In principle, we are always in favour of tax cuts. Whether or not this is the case, I have to look at the conditions. 'Cause it's also been said that there was "what was that called?" Money is being abused again. I have to take a look at that, but the idea of lower burdens on business certainly appeals to us in these times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u51	Could you be a little more specific? Because the Central Planning Bureau and the Council of State are extremely critical, both on the job-related side of it, and it does little work on the job and on the implementation. In fact, I would like to invite you to show a little more of your position in this debate, to take the map off the chest a little more. 'Cause this is, of course, really big money. You take the size of the cabinet with regard to expenditure, but here you remain anxiously silent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u52	I can say at this point: in principle, it seems to us to be a good idea to reduce burdens on business, including with large sums of money. I think that's what's needed right now. Whether the BIK is exactly the right and best instrument for that, we are still looking at it, but it looks positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u53	Finally, Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u54	Can I conclude, then, that it is only positive when it provides substantial jobs and that it is not vulnerable in its implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u55	Look, as far as I'm concerned, good investment always provides jobs in the long term, but that's not a matter of giving money today and getting a new job tomorrow. But we'll see. We're gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u56	I have a question for Mr Frentrop and first I have an opinion. You asked if it was populist to link migrants to problems in the Netherlands. Indeed, I find that very populist. I don't think it's right either. That is why you have two questions: do you know how much money is in the budget for paragraph Asylum and Migration? And two, do you know how many asylum seekers this last year, 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u57	Let me ask the question about the cost of immigration. I'll just have to get a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u58	I can help with that, you know. You said "billions." It is not even 1 billion and a lot of money goes to the civil service and lawyers and so on. The second question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u59	I think it's true that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u60	So it's not about billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u61	You wanted to know what the cost of migration is? I don't think they're very well calculated. As far as I'm concerned, the latest calculation by the government is a 2003 CBS report entitled Immigration and the Dutch Economy. Since then, there seems to be some sort of taboo on those costs. So what did we do at the Forum for Democracy? We have a scientific institute and that has stimulated and arranged research into the costs of immigration in the Netherlands, the general costs...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u62	And what amount came out of that, Mr. Frentrop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u63	Now you want to know what the outcome is. We don't have it yet, but we do have it before the election. I can give you an estimate, but then you shouldn't say: yes, but you would have said it becomes sister and so much. I haven't exactly got it yet, but I can say about EUR 14 billion a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mrs. Fox, second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u65	We are talking about this government's budget, and the budget states exactly how much it costs and what it is spent on. That's $1 billion. I'd also like to be with my own... So you don't like those numbers, and you might come up with a higher amount. The second is that you link migrants to the housing shortage. You're talking about 340,000 houses short. Do you know how many migrants each year get a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u66	No, I haven't calculated that yet, but I can imagine that if the population in the Netherlands grows mainly due to immigration, the shortage of housing is related to population growth. I don't think so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mrs. Vos, I'm sure you have the answer. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u68	Well, I don't really have an answer, because I just want Mr Frentrop to understand that I think it's populist. Most migrants are migrant workers and, as you know, they are in terrible living conditions in holiday parks or worse. The number of homes that asylum seekers receive is much smaller. So the question is whether the Forum for Democracy is prepared to really think about solutions to housing shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u69	Thank you, that was your third, Mrs. Fox. Then I'll go to Mrs. Bredenoord on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mrs Faber and Mr Frentrop just had a muscle fight which is the hardest on migration. Mrs Faber seemed to win. But all of a sudden, I was wondering. You say you want a migrant stop. Are you actually saying that you want to cancel the international refugee treaties from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u71	Yes, let me see which treaty exactly, but if possible I would say: yes, the Netherlands must ensure that we, like countries like Australia and Canada, can decide how many and which refugees we allow in. I wouldn't want to transfer that to an international treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mrs. Bredenoord, the last one please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u73	In fact, you say that the Netherlands must withdraw from both European and international agreements. You also say that politics is the art of the feasible. How do you think you're gonna do that in a year or two? That's not realistic, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u74	Finally, Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u75	If I have to do it very briefly, we know the term "opt-out." I think you can also say of treaties: now we are not participating in it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you. I would like to thank Mr Frentrop and give the floor to Mrs Jorritsma on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u77	Oh, that's too bad about my lipstick, but okay. Mr. Chairman. These are crazy times. Everyone keeps saying that. That's very annoying, but it's also true. Not just because of corona and the new partial lockdown that we ended up back in. All you have to do is walk across the Square in The Hague and you can see it. But also because of the persistent disinformation that is increasingly shared and, unfortunately, is increasingly believed by more and more people. In the meantime, the earth is flat again, children become autistic with vaccinations and the radiation of 5G is not only harmful, but also causes corona. For some bright lights that is even a reason to set torch cell towers. Mr President, the truth is becoming more and more a stretchy concept, and that is a worrying development. So these are indeed crazy times, when I hear people proclaim in talk shows that they are "not in agreement with the facts." Or another popular death doer: "Those are my facts." Robbert Dijkgraaf, a scientist who also likes to argue, said in last week's NRC that transversal thinkers are usually wrong and so it is, but then you have to look at them like that. When facts are no longer established, it becomes particularly complicated to convince people of something. Where conspirators used to be a small group that we didn't have to take too seriously, we now see that alternative truths are becoming mainstream. When the first corona wave broke out in March, we knew little and had to act quickly. As the Prime Minister put it, "In crises like this, you have to take 100% of the decisions with 50% of the knowledge and bear the consequences." One of the most profound decisions then was to proceed to the intelligent lockdown. This had a heavy impact on people's private lives and on the life work of many entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, we shared our support for that decision and created a coherency that we as a VVD-group found particularly inspiring. We stood together with 17 million Dutch people and together we managed to control that horrible virus. Because weeks later we could go out again, we could have another beer in the pub and we could visit our parents again in the nursing home. We did that together. That's the Netherlands we're proud of, and that's how we recognize Dutch people. The facts showed that there was a horrible virus going around that we could only beat together. Those facts, although limited, were leading. Without the need for laws, without coercion, we got it together. That is virtually at odds with the uncertainty that is constantly being created. Not because of the virus, because with that uncertainty, unfortunately, we still have to live for a while. No, uncertainty is created on social media, and the other media are sometimes influenced by it. The great support for the measures in March is therefore in danger of disappearing. If we'd rather take medical advice from a dance teacher than a virologist, we'd be on a slippery slope. So more and more is now regulated by laws. Partly because it is democratically necessary, but also because the basis of support is crumbling. And when the support for corona measures crumbles, the reproductive number increases, the number of positive tests increases, the number of hospitalisations increases and, unfortunately, the number of deaths increases. So we must prevent that from happening. Mr. Chairman. The members of the VVD Group do not believe in conspiracies, I think I have already made that clear. We do not believe that many Dutch do. But I do believe that willfully nonsense is spread through social media and that it is becoming more difficult for all of us to distinguish real news and fake news. If you can't even trust the words from the mouth of the President of the United States, then that's not so crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u78	I can go a long way with Mrs Jorritsma's speech, but I have a question. I notice that this conspiracy is taking off, much more than in other countries. How does Mrs. Jorritsma explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u79	I'm afraid too many people go along with it. When I look at television, I sometimes see very serious people saying things that I think: where do you come from, stick to the facts. We're kind of a country that's sensitive to this kind of thing, I'm afraid. It's different with our neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u80	Because I've been thinking a lot about this, too. Yesterday it was also dealt with by the Emergency Act. I believe that an important cause of its emergence is also the government's communication policy around the corona crisis. The facts are not very transparent. The policy we have to follow also varies a lot from day to day. Does Mrs Jorritsma agree with me that this conspiracy is something I agree with her: everyone must have an opinion on something in a talk show before we can adopt an emergency law and in other countries it is something else that is partly due to the volatile and sometimes not entirely clear communication policy of the Rutte cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u81	I don't agree with you. I think it's something else entirely. I think it has become a political debate in the Netherlands very quickly. There are countries where it is still not a political debate. I do not know if you know, but I believe that there have been 48 debates on corona in the House of Representatives, while in Germany I believe there have been only two debates in Parliament, so that the contradictions in views are not constantly being fully explained. They will be just as good in Germany, but they will be much less blown up, enlarged, and reinforced in the press with falsehoods, if I may put it that way. By "the press," I mean social media. We are different in the Netherlands than in some other countries. I do not believe that you can blame the cabinet for having to take different measures with continued knowledge to achieve effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u82	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Otten, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u83	I would like to remind Mrs Jorritsma that in March there was a rather emotional campaign from the cabinet; you never walk alone and so on. In fact, influencers were hired by the cabinet. You'll get that back now. Perhaps we should have communicated very loudly on the basis of the facts. I would advise the Cabinet to do so and just be honest, transparent...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u84	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u85	Does Mrs. Jorritsma agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u86	I have heard from the cabinet that we must all abide by the basic rules. And what's that? Keep five feet away, wash your hands, stay home as much as possible, work at home as much as possible. In between, you've taken measures that you had to take because the reproduction number went up again. Of course, mistakes have been made. Incredible mistakes have been made, but they have been made everywhere. It's not like we're the worst boy in the class. However, I would like to say that the confusion here has been greatly increased by the constant politicisation of all kinds of points of view. That's too bad. I was mayor. In times of disaster, you need to communicate as little as possible during the disaster. At least you have to communicate about measures, but you don't have to have a political discussion. You feed it afterwards. In retrospect, you can evaluate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u87	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u88	I was with the President of the United States. However, we must continue to make that distinction. Facts are facts. On that basis, we can discuss and disagree passionately with each other, even when it comes to corona or perhaps the right thing to do when it comes to corona. Yesterday we dealt with the temporary law. I still regret that it took us so long before we could treat him. He was in the House of Representatives for a long time before the amendments were made. I'm sorry about that. I think they could have done that sooner, but they'll have to assess that later. Because of disinformation and fake news, many people do not see that this law gives more democratic control to the House of Representatives and at local level to the municipal councils. The law has been discussed for months because it does allow for serious temporary restrictions on fundamental rights. The law wasn't pretty at all at first. I did agree with the spokesman for my own group, who reiterated that it might have been better to repeal and re-table the law in its original state. That did not happen, but it could have been amended a little more quickly, I say. As a former Second Member of Parliament, I dare say so to the House of Representatives. They could have done it a little faster. I think it is fantastic that the coalition and the opposition together have made and adopted as many as eight amendments to improve the law. This has not only improved the law, but hopefully also gained support in this Chamber; we are going to vote on it later. I hope that we will soon regain our support in the country, because only with broad support will we get this virus back underneath. I would like to return to the debate in this Chamber on the Corona app and, in fact, a little bit to yesterday and to a trend that unfortunately we as a group of the VVD have been seeing for a while and which we are concerned about. We can see that the forms of association in this Chamber are also being brutalized. I deeply regret that. Both members and members in the direction of directors. That was the case with the app and yesterday, unfortunately, this was also the case occasionally. Can we please continue to treat guests in this room with a little respect? This also means taking into account the time span that we impose on rulers. At the app, Minister De Jonge had to spend four days in the Second and First Chambers to defend that app. I think that's really extreme. We may have done a little longer about the Environment Act, but that's a little more complex, a little bigger. There are a lot of laws that are much more important, but we'll be shorter about them. If you do that too much and seize too much on a minister who's already busy enough, how does he get to his policy? Can we also respect each other that everyone in this Chamber has the best interests of the country and that we only differ on the method by which it should be done? When I was mayor, I had the agreement with the council members that council members, like MPs by the way, are not Jan, Piet or Klaas, but representatives of the people who defend their group's functional positions and explain differences in views in a respectful way. With the Lower House elections on the doorstep, I am very concerned that we should start counting on further brutality. Mr. Chairman. Then back to the content. If there is one sector that has suffered and continues to suffer at this time, then that is the concern. It's nice that there's so much attention now for people who work in care. Our health care is one of the best in the world, but it runs against borders at this time. At the same time, it is also one of the most expensive systems in the world and there is very little rack in our system. Stocks, beds and human capacity are very tightly tailored to modal production. And that means that if acute care is to be provided to corona patients, other care needs to be scaled down. That is undesirable, but sometimes necessary. We all have great appreciation for the care. Bonuses alone aren't gonna get us there. Real appreciation is about more than money. It is, of course, tempting to speak now only about what is not going well, but an analysis of what is successful during the crisis approach may help us find answers to how to organise care in a situation that transcends supply: the importance of well-trained and flexibly deployable healthcare professionals, innovative power and cooperation between different organisations. In particular, the lack of appreciation of the organisation, the degree of independence experienced and the high workload are often indicated as a reason by people who leave care. This while there is already a high number of unfilled vacancies in the care sector. Can the problem of job vacancies and hence the high workload not also be overcome by larger contracts? Care workers work on average only 24 hours a week. Can the cabinet indicate what it is going to do to make work in care more attractive? Now it's already the case that one in seven people in health care work. We cannot afford to see this figure get much bigger, especially if the economic situation in this country is improving. Mr President, I have already mentioned: the crisis has a huge impact on people's private lives, but also on the life work of many entrepreneurs. They're gonna get punched after punch. The catering industry was just thinking about the future after the first wave, but is now closed again. It's a tough setback. The sport could go back to normal for a while, but is now almost flat again. Football without an audience. The culture sector tried to scramble, but I went to a show last week where we had 25 people in the room. It's not funny. It's all necessary and it's all terrible. We need to take those blows as well as possible, including financially. And we will. With an unprecedented rescue operation. Every effort is being made to keep businesses on their feet and thus to keep people's jobs. By the way, Mr. Frentrop, we do that for our children, too. The government has invested many billions in this way in our economy. It is good that we do that and it is nice that we live in a country where we can do that. The housekeeping book of the Netherlands is so well in order that we can now take this blow. For those who ask what ten years Mark Rutte has yielded, here's the answer. Mr. Chairman. When I look at next year's budget and at today's actual situation, I suspect that more than ever before we are facing budgetary changes aimed at helping entrepreneurs keep their heads above water in these difficult times, I suppose you might say something about it again tonight and keep their people in service. Because that's what it's all about, just hard-working Dutch jobs. These jobs also mean that people in the Netherlands can still consume, which means that our economy is less damaged than in our neighbouring countries. We see that the government is bringing about all these packages of aid in a very sensible way, namely with the whole polder. With employers and employees, but also with the coalition taking the opposition. The VVD Group really hopes that you will be able to continue this process until the crisis really comes to an end. Már, we are quite concerned that as the elections approach, that will not be easier. In addition, of course, the support packages also have limits. This means, above all, that we need to strengthen the adaptability of companies. No compelling innovations, but small adjustments that work. We believe that the smaller SMEs may need help with this. Someone who thinks along with them, some money to retrain and so on, maybe the Prime Minister can tell us how he looks at that. Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, we have come out of the previous crisis stronger and we can now take the hits. But economic growth is not self-evident. The VVD Group therefore considers it wise that we invest out of the crisis. With current interest rates, this is also possible, something that was unthinkable in 2012. We are now investing out of the crisis and working towards a good investment climate for large, medium and small enterprises. We ask our entrepreneurs to work for the preservation of jobs through the BIK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u89	I heard Mr Jorritsma say that we came out of the previous crisis stronger. Now we have received reports from the three major planning agencies in the Netherlands and they say that in recent years we have been getting more and more social gaps between workers and non-working people, between tenants and house seekers, betweenzzp'ers and people with permanent jobs, between very rich people and very poor people. Surely it cannot have escaped the attention of the VVD Group that ten years of Rutte has resulted in this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u90	In the previous period, by the way, a long period together with the Labour Party, we had to work hard to get the finances back in order so that we now have room to do things, so in bad times. If it had not been, we could have continued to work on that which concerns us. What aboutzzp'ers? Something's gotta happen to that one day. Frankly, I'm afraid this is pretty complicated right now. We need to think about how you can fix that in this time of year. But you don't have all the resources you'd have had if there hadn't been a corona. These reports would have been helpful in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u92	I understand that Mrs Jorritsma is defending the performance of the cabinet, her cabinets. But it refers, for example, to the Labour Party with which the VVD has pursued that policy for a number of years. Now I heard from Lodewijk Asscher last Sunday a public confession of debt at Buitenhof, "we should not have introduced the loan system, we should not have started the landlord levy, we should not have locked the social workshops, we should not have reduced social housing." Does only he see that so or has the VVD, reflecting on ten years Mark Rutte... And I congratulate him on that, it is quite an achievement to be the boss of the Netherlands for ten years. Is there any reflection at the VVD that it hasn't all gone as well as Mrs Jorritsma initially suggested over the past ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u93	I don't need much guilt. That would also be very special. I also find it very strange that you make compromises of this kind, because of course it is when you rule... I can tell you that we were not at all as satisfied with the coalition agreement as it was when Rutte began to rule with the Labour Party. It contained a lot of things that we said we hadn't thought of ourselves, that it was typical Labour Policy Party. But that's the way it's supposed to be. You do these things together and then you have to turn them both in. To be honest, I think that the biggest party -- we were -- we're now back at this point -- most of the time, most of the time, we have to turn in. That's annoying, but that's all you've got to live with. But you have to do it together. You make compromises. I always think the cup is half full.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Kox, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u95	I'm not a big fan of guilt either, but sometimes it's wise. I see Mr Schalk sitting behind you, who clearly has a slightly different opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u96	You are of the cobe confession...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u97	What's your question, Mr. Kox?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u98	My question is, apart from pleading guilty, you can also look back on the past to move forward in the future. In the meantime, the Labour Party found that a number of elements of the policy had gone wrong and promised that it would do it differently. That is also my question to the VVD: does reflection mean that in future the VVD will stop using a loan system, give the social workshops more space and space for social housing? Can we expect that from the VVD? That is the purpose of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u99	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u100	We are in the middle of preparing the election programme for the House of Representatives. One thing I know for sure: one thing we find very difficult as a legacy from the past is that we have given too little attention to the middle groups. You can assume that the forthcoming election programme will receive a great deal of attention. Those are the things we will focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u101	Thank you very much. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u102	Where was I? We ask our entrepreneurs to work for the preservation of jobs through the BIK, we try to help them create new jobs through, for example, the Growth Fund. Moreover, we must nurture our businesses and not drive them away with threats, because they are going to help us get out of the crisis through the investment towards the new economic reality, which will be more sustainable and sustained, with the corresponding employment. The cabinet now announces the Growth Fund or, as it is popularly called, the Wopke-Wiebes- or the Wiepke Fund. With my Frisian last name, you'll understand that I like that name. 20 billion to be invested over the next five years in order to stimulate economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u103	I had some questions about the Growth Fund, but I can also wait until Mrs Jorritsma has spoken on this issue. Maybe that's wiser.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u104	I'm still working on that subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u105	That's fine, we look forward to it. Go ahead, Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. I have experience as Minister of Transport and Water State in the past. Such a large pot of money is, of course, at risk of becoming a grabbelton for political hobbies. For example, it would seem to me personally a particularly good idea as a resident of the beautiful city of Almere that we use that money to build an IJmeer connection. This is not only good for the economy, it also boosts the labour market, not to mention the housing market, more space. But given the political debate on every infrastructure project, not everyone in this Chamber probably agrees with me. That is precisely why we think it is very important that the Wopke-Wiebes fund should be set at some distance from politics, because we in this Chamber and the people across the Binnenhof all have political, often regional hobbies, which can be well financed from the fund. But the aim of stimulating economic growth is not achieved automatically. And it is a good thing that we have an independent committee, at least, I hope, which advises on that money. Of course, political decisions must be taken on the cases within which these opinions are to be given, but it is also good if experts look at the projects which contribute most to economic growth in the future without any interest. And surely all kinds of sensible projects will come out, helping us, for example, in the energy transition. Maybe something about nuclear power, who knows? Finally, I would like to raise a very different subject. But, yes, Mr. Otten wanted to interrupt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u107	Yes, Mr. Otten, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike some other parties, we always like to hear the input before we react. The Growth Fund, Onno Ruding, you certainly also known coalition mate from the 1980s, said...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u109	Yeah, I was already there, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u110	You know them better than I do. He said: That Growth Fund is a very bad idea, that's a bucket of money where politicians 'fly like locusts to finance their hat projects'. Sheer van Wijnbergen, former Director-General of Economic Affairs, also said:'very bad idea, that is three times the Betuwe line'. How can you be so sure, Mrs Jorritsma, through the chairman, that this will not happen with the 20 billion this time, especially since Jeroen Dijsselbloem is going to distribute the money? Will you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u111	I just said it. If you have listened carefully, then you have heard that I have said: you have to take it a little away from daily politics, you have to make sure that some good criteria are set. These must, of course, be determined by politics. So there must be growth potential in it. If that's not in there, you shouldn't even get into it. Then I'll agree with you soon. And above all, you should not leave it to day-to-day politics to make the choices between the projects, because then things go wrong. However, I do believe that the political framework conditions must of course be put right, and not just like that. That is what has happened in the past. I can report you, when the FES started...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u112	Very briefly, Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u113	The FES funded exceptionally good projects in the initial phase. At some point, all these criteria were abandoned. And yes, then it became a grabbelton. Then you're right, then you have to stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u114	I would nevertheless like to refer to the Millions Note, which is precisely indicated by the General Court that the FES has become a failure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u115	At the end, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u116	At the end, but at the end, you make the return, at least, a normal business person does. Moreover, the Growth Fund does not even need to have a return, because none of this is important. These are very vague criteria. Just from the VVD I didn't expect people to give tax money to Dijsselbloem and consorts out of their hands and say "do something good with it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u118	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u119	I just explained. I have just explained that you must start by setting good criteria in the Chamber. That's just supposed to happen, and that's what we need to be involved in, Second and First Chambers, and that's what a law comes for, I suppose. Then you have to try to keep it at bay. If that doesn't work remotely, I totally agree with you, then you shouldn't get involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u120	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u121	Finally, where does that uncertainty come from, that you say, "help, tie me up, hold me at bay, because I can't deal with 20 billion"? You've been elected in politics to make decisions like this, haven't you? You can't outsource it a little bit to Dijsselbloem and a few other old boys from your network to spend that money? It's up to you, isn't it? There you are...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u122	Mr. Otten...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u123	It's up to you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u124	Mr. Otten, your question is clear, thank you very much. A brief answer, Mrs. Jorritsma, then we'll go to Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u125	Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Otten has never heard that you are sitting here with 75 people and on the other side with 150 people who all want something different and that you must always come to compromises. When it comes to regions, these compromises are already complicated. I spent four years defending MIT in the Lower House. I can tell you: that was a lovely round of regional hobbies across the country. Of course, you have to make choices in the end, but then you have to look at the coalition, you have to try, if you really want to make a growth fund seriously, to do so as rationally as possible and with as little political influence as possible at project level. The frameworks certainly need to be politically determined, and if they are too weak, Mr Otten, then that law doesn't come through the First Chamber as far as I'm concerned, then we'll be done too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u126	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. Mr. Schalk, any short questions? 'Cause we're running late already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u127	Always short, Mr. Chairman. Guilt is difficult, as we have just heard, and yet I was surprised that Mrs Jorritsma just made a guilty confession, namely that in the past too little attention has been paid to middle incomes. I thought this would be a good time to ask her a question. I have argued here for a number of years in succession that two earners pay six times as little tax as one earners. I have some bad news. It's almost seven times. Is this perhaps the moment when the VVD is going to think about how we can solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u128	I am afraid I must disappoint you, at least, that I must disappoint Mr Schalk, not you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u129	I thought so!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u130	I am very pleased that we have an individualised tax system, whereby people simply pay on the basis of what they earn, and no longer that we add income together and then tax. Because that's the cause of what you say about two-earers. Look, if two people work 40 hours a week and each earns €30,000, they together earn €60,000 and pay much less tax than one person who works 40 hours and earns €60,000. But that also makes sense, because those first guys work 80 hours for that, and the other guy works 40 hours for that. So we have to assume a proper comparison. I always find that a difficult discussion to have with you. But yes, that's the choice you make when you say: it's not important how people live, how they live together, it's important what people do themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u131	Now I have to make a small correction, and of course I don't like doing that. That six times isn't about two people who both work 40 hours but about two people who both work 20 hours and one who works 40 hours; so the same total time. If you have an income of €40,000 alone, you pay €12,000 tax and if you both earn €20,000, so you also pay €40,000 and 40 hours of tax. That's the big difference, so there's a huge gap there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u132	Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u133	But then it means that you choose that income has to be added together and that tax has to be paid. I am not in favour of this, because that certainly does not encourage women to go to work anymore. It is one of the concerns that we still have a lot of systems at the moment that actually prevent people from working more hours. I hope that the cabinet will take further steps in this regard. It does not only apply in health care, it also applies in education. So I think people should be treated equally in that respect, so not looking at your social form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u134	Then I will go to Mr Van Rooijen. No, I'm just gonna narrow it down to two right now, or we're gonna end up like hell tonight. Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. It is interesting that Mrs Jorritsma lifted a hint of the veil of the electoral programme and said: we are certainly going to give the middle groups - and that speaks to me - great attention and priority. Can I ask her whether she can give a tip of the veil about pensioners, or who will be in the same positive light?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u136	I'm not gonna light up any further tips from the veil. You're gonna have to wait. I believe that the concept of the election programme will be published in a few weeks' time. Then we can say all kinds of things about it. Maybe it's even for the financial considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u137	You yourself, of course, made this inkling for me, by starting over the middle groups. I repeat my question. If you are not clear about this now, then I would like to make it clear to you from our side that at least we give high priority to pensioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u138	No, Mr. Van Rooijen. You may ask a short question, but you cannot read your election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u139	Finally, I would like to respond to Mr Schalk's question. Germany, not least in Europe, has had a division system for decades. That means that the income of a family, a couple, is simply divided by two. Actually, that's a very logical system. It's a golden middle ground between one and the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u140	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u141	My question is whether, in reply to me and Mr Schalk, you could say that this is something to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u142	Then we'll go to Mrs. Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u143	I am not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u144	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u145	I must say that we are not in favour of this. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u146	Yeah, I figured. You scared the shit out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u147	I am quite right to hear Mrs Jorritsma express her concerns about the shortage we have in health care, especially nurses, and in education. Often this has to do with part-time jobs, the somewhat smaller jobs. We all know that women are often involved in the labour market. A possible solution that would allow us to take major steps is to make childcare more accessible, for example by making it free of charge. How do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u148	I find it difficult to say that we have to do this for everyone and everything. I see they've been doing this in certain hospitals. I think you should see if sectors can make provision for that. You also see employers in the care that pay a supplement when people go to work for more hours. I've had the wild idea myself that you can make sure that everyone gets a little more for the hours they're going to work more. Actually, I think it's okay for everyone to work a little more. It is also good for economic independence. We often talk about the salaries in healthcare, but they are largely determined by the fact that people work very few hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u149	Thank you. Soon, Mrs. Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u150	In fact, I think Mrs Jorritsma and I should call on the cabinet to do so. For several reasons, we fully agree that it would be good. It is good for combating labour shortages, but it is also good for the emancipation of women, if they are going to work a little more hours. They have more to spend. That's good. I think child care is a route to that. Another way is that more work pays off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u151	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u152	Do you agree that we should ask the Cabinet to take a good look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u153	I would like a brief answer and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u154	I told you, I agree. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to raise a very different subject, namely discrimination. Following the terrible events in America last summer, protests against discrimination and racism spread all over the world. We've seen that we still have work to do. Everyone is equal before the law, but in practice this is sometimes different. You will not be surprised that I have no experience of racism, but we may all know discrimination or exclusion. I used to be a fat girl. I've been bullied about that on a regular basis. That hurt. My girlfriend with red hair experienced the same thing. Was this discrimination? I don't think so, but it felt that way. Discrimination is more topical than ever. I've just seen the figures from the Home Office report: it's growing. The number of reports is growing and there are more incidents. Mr Paul Rosenmöller and I have already discussed before the summer whether our Chamber could play a role in thinking about combating discrimination. Our conclusion was that it was time to examine the issue of discrimination as a First Chamber, but especially from the legislative point of view. We all know Article 1 of the Constitution. That's what we're all here for. Anti-discrimination paragraphs have been included in many sectoral laws, but discrimination has not disappeared. So there is a difference between what we have incorporated into the laws, such as the General Law on Equal Treatment, and practice, for example, when it comes to the disabled, women or people with a migration background. We thought it would be very good to carry out an investigation into this, in accordance with the study carried out by this Chamber a few years ago on privatisation. The aim of all this is to see how we can improve implementation practice and whether it can be improved. Perhaps the codification of the laws is no longer in line with what we once meant by them. How can we combat discrimination more fundamentally? I hope to hear from colleagues during this debate whether they feel the same way. At the end of the debate, we would then be able to take the bull's-eye by means of a motion by setting up a working group. It's a very big subject that you can't quite catch. So you're gonna have to frame it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u155	I suggest you finish your text.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u156	Yes, concluding, Mr. Chairman. The government is present this year with a very small delegation in this Knight's Room. We are also here with a very small number of Members. I also know that the VVD group is listening to the livestream. I estimate that many rulers will also be listening today. As an old executive, I say that this can be in a slightly more comfortable place than when you get to sit in the back. The VVD Group also hopes that next year we will be able to be fully present again; not in this Chamber, but in our temporary, new housing. One thing we know for sure: the world will look completely different. On behalf of my group, I would like to say that we hope that we will all be able to be in good health. That is what we wish the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u157	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u158	I would just like to ask about Mrs Jorritsma's proposal to investigate discrimination. I would like to know: what is discrimination? People sometimes disagree, so I have a very specific question about that. Does Mrs Jorritsma think that there is also discrimination against whites and whites? I do not want to offend by not using the right word or that there can be no discrimination against whites and whites?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u159	It's possible. That's gonna happen from time to time. I don't disagree with you at all. I just want to try to take the legislative perspective into account, because we are responsible for assessing the possibilities of implementing laws when these laws are adopted in this Chamber. Then you have an intention with a law. We all have the intention of ensuring that discrimination no longer occurs. It is set out in Article 1 of the Constitution. It is good to make a deep dive once as you call it with a modern term, to go deeper into the matter. There are a lot of reports, surveys and figures. It is good to be there as the First Chamber a little further from the delusion of the day, because I don't have that much to look at. Furthermore, Mr Rosenmöller will undoubtedly say something about this in his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u160	Finally, Mr Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u161	My questions are shorter than the answers. I'd like to make a statement. So the research you are proposing is also about discrimination against whites or whites. Is this what this is supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u162	We're trying to set up a working group. That working group determines exactly what is being investigated. Are you going to have any particular legislation... You have all kinds of ways to look at discrimination, namely horizontal and vertical. In principle, I believe that all subjects can be included on the agenda. Then you have to make a lock of what you're going to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u163	Thank you. The first member of the working group is already present. No, I'm gonna do two by interruption, because we're way too far behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u164	I have a technical question for Mrs Jorritsma. Mrs Jorritsma says the number of returns is growing. Can you specify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u165	I've got the D.A.'s figures. It doesn't say on the basis of which the number of declarations is growing. Although, there is an increase in the number of incidents in the police and the municipalities. There is also an increase in the number of reports to the Committee on Equal Opportunities and to the Committee on Human Rights. In fact, it is not going in the right direction in all areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u166	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u167	I'll make it a little easier for Mrs. Jorritsma: how many reports have been made to the D.A.'s office? How many reports are there? Let's just pick one out, because it's easier. Then we know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u168	I don't know if you've looked them up, but I haven't looked them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u169	Mrs Faber, finally. No? Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. I call Mr Rosenmöller on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u170	Mr. Chairman. The most powerful sentence of the Throne speech was as follows: "The rule of law is the most important public property of society. It is the basis of a democratic country that is socially and economically strong and where equality of opportunity is the norm." This equality of opportunity may be the norm, but the corona pandemic unfortunately leads to an increase in inequality of opportunity. Take the students into the MBO, the professionals of the future. Many of these practically talented young people are unable to find a suitable internship. If you can't practice in practice, you can't take your exam and catch up. These delays have already occurred on VMBO, because practice lessons are difficult to give remotely. On the labour market young people with their small jobs and flexible contracts are the first to be on the streets. Young people live longer and longer with their parents, because the housing market is completely locked for them. In short, there is no perspective. Research shows that 74% of young people are mentally affected by the corona period. Stress, loneliness, despondency are most common. Youth experts call on the cabinet to protect young people as much as possible from the adverse effects of this crisis. It is good that the Prime Minister was present at the opening of the MBO year in September. And it's good that he still teaches vmbo students and that he invited young people to the Catshuis. I ask the Prime Minister what it does to him that our young people suffer mentally from this crisis. I ask him to come up with a coherent story and perspective, so that we can rightly say: youth has the future. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis increases socio-economic differences in many ways. We are becoming a country of social gaps, with growing inequalities between low- and high-skilled people, flexicurities and permanent workers, young people and older people, people with and without a migration background. What started as a health crisis leads to a disease burden that is not evenly distributed. The rather sad picture seemed to stop. I read this analysis not in the new GroenLinks election programme, but in the draftsman of the Central Planning Bureau. How do we see this equality of opportunity as the norm of the Throne speech in the daily reality of dealing with a crisis? We can do no: we have to do more than we are showing now, nationally and internationally. Especially in an unprecedented crisis like this, we need to be supportive and complimentary to the cabinet if we can, and critical where it should be. The Prime Minister showed leadership from March onwards, but what lesson does he learn from the bad example behavior we have seen in recent weeks? At European level, that leadership was somewhat disappointing. Shouldn't the ambitions extend beyond the captain of the dreary four? Inequality is also increasing at European level. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank put the finger on the sore spot. In his HJ Schoo lecture last month, he argued that companies benefit more than citizens and northern economies from currency union and free trade. Knot is concerned about this distortion, with all the consequences for the European project as such. He advocated compulsory budgetary alignment, a permanent recovery fund, and, theoretically, he called debt cancellation the best. I ask the Prime Minister about his analysis and response. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this strong sense of the rule of law from the Throne speech is not only national but also European? Will he then promise that countries that undermine the rule of law and threaten freedom of expression will not be eligible for EU subsidies? Mr. Chairman. Inequality is a relative concept. There are many countries where inequality is greater than ours, but we cannot rely on increasing inequality. Precisely this growing inequality, with all the social misery of that, motivated me to become socially and politically active. Fortunately, our country is better off in many areas than when I started working more than 40 years ago. However, a number of issues remain persistent, such as discrimination in the labour market. The consequences affect applicants with a migration background in general and people with a non-Western background in particular. Last adopted in high economics, in crisis time the first out. That is the dry but destructive observation of the Central Planning Bureau, which reminded me of two events, one from the past and one from the present. To contribute to the reduction of prejudice and discrimination in the labour market, in 1994 I successfully defended an initiative law here in the First Chamber, together with my dear colleague Hans Dijkstal and colleague Groenman of D66, who unfortunately died too early, to strengthen the "employment opportunities of immigrants" as it was then called. Twenty-six years later, I have to say that the issue is more persistent than it was thought. Back to the present. Earlier this year, we were shocked by the violent death of American George Floyd and then the Black Lives Matter movement made its accusations against racism and discrimination worldwide. For the Prime Minister there was reason to say that he wanted to take practical steps towards zero racism in our country. May I ask what the Prime Minister is thinking? What kind of steps? For us it was, among other things, a new wake-up call, with the question: what can we, as senators, do about the persistent problem of discrimination that we all condemn, but so difficult to combat? Article 1 of the Constitution is clear on the need for equal treatment. In a number of laws, that article has been further developed; think of the General Law on Equal Treatment. The law condemns discrimination uncompromisingly. Unfortunately, the practice is different. There's a gap between life and doctrine, between the law in the books and the law on the ground. As senators, we are intensively concerned with the quality of legislation and its implementation. It is therefore appropriate to ask, in particular, what is the cause and extent of the difference between legislation and practice. What exactly are the facts? In what way is the spirit of time subject to change? How is discrimination experienced by citizens? Is the codification of legislation needed to be reviewed or is it mainly a question of implementation from a public perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u171	I would have liked to ask Mr. Rosenmöller the same question I had just asked Mrs. Jorritsma. When he talks about discrimination, does that include discrimination against white people/witnessing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u172	In our view, it is also about polite prejudices or discrimination. So we will have to listen carefully to what people experience as discrimination. Then we're not ruling anything out. What we are doing with each other, and hopefully with you too, is that we will have to look at this issue intensively, both on the legislative side and on the social side, as well as on the experience side, and then we will have to define it. I'll say something about that in a minute. But at this stage of the conversation, if the First Chamber wants to investigate something like this further, you can't rule out anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u173	One more question about that frame-up. I have not yet heard an exact answer to the question of whether white/white discrimination is included. There is another form of discrimination, which I would like to ask whether it includes discrimination in terms of not skin colour but political colour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u174	Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u175	May I explain, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u176	Go ahead, if you'll do that briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u177	For example, someone, let's say an active member of GroenLinks, may apply somewhere as a teacher. It is not accepted because they think on the school board: they used to be the communists; we cannot expose our students to such a person. A practical example on the other hand... it is public.. is that a politician has said that PVV's do not belong to the police. The man who said that is now mayor in Arnhem, if I'm not mistaken. Does this kind of political discrimination also fall under what you want to investigate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u178	I am disappointed that my first answer seems to have escaped you, because I have answered it. The second is that discrimination with a political context is also included in the basket in which we will make the assessment. After all, we live in the rule of law, a rule of law based on a Constitution, laws and international treaties. It would be a good thing if you could make that clear to yourself in the next few days. I did not have the idea that your contribution was based on the recognition of those international conventions, but on that aside. Yes, we are the party that, at the moment together with the VVD, wants to weigh all these things and see if we can make a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u179	I have to interrupt, because Mr Rosenmöller blames me for failing to comply with international treaties...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u180	If you'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u181	I note that white and white, and also the political colour, can be part of the investigation into discrimination. As far as international conventions are concerned, the following. In the Netherlands, the Constitution is no longer the highest law. There are international treaties that go beyond constitutional provisions in the Netherlands. We in the Forum for Democracy believe that this is an issue that needs to be addressed. If you say "gosh, you're a bit laconical about international treaties," you should see that in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u182	You continue your argument, Mr. Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u183	I did not think you were laconical, I thought you were quite clear, but I distance myself from that on behalf of my group. But that aside. Perhaps we can find each other on the issue of the initiative to possibly conduct a parliamentary inquiry. Mr President, I shall continue. I would have stayed with the senators. It is right that we should ask ourselves, in particular, what is the cause and extent of the difference between legislation and practice. What exactly are the facts? In what way is the spirit of time subject to change? Is the codification of legislation needed to be reviewed? Or, from a government perspective, is there mainly a question of implementation? What answers could we offer when it comes to concerns about discrimination? Over the last few weeks, we have discussed this with colleagues from the VVD Group, including Mr Jorritsma. Together, we came to the conclusion that it would be a good idea for the Senate to start exploring the possibility of a parliamentary investigation into discrimination in the Netherlands. An exploration in which consensus must grow on the definition, definition and context. After all, there is not only black and white discrimination, but also discrimination against people with disabilities, age discrimination and so on. Unfortunately, it goes beyond the labour market. We see it on the housing market, in education, in public space and elsewhere. In short, these and other questions deserve further consideration, using a multitude of data and expertise available to the various scientific institutions and advisory bodies. What we consider important today is that we take a step forward and look into the persistent issue of the existence of discrimination and, in the best case, provide united answers. That would make the Netherlands even more beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u184	Mrs Jorritsma mentioned a working group. In the meantime it has become a parliamentary investigation, I understand. I have heard in Mrs Jorritsma's speech the word'research', but not the word 'Parliamentary research', which Mr Rosenmöller refers to. We are talking here about the General Political Reviews. I can imagine that we will put this question to the cabinet first: what are you doing about this? Then we can talk in the College of Seniors about whether we should do more with this, for example in the form of an investigation. At a working group, I can imagine something else, but do we have to discuss a parliamentary inquiry into such a subject here today? That's a question that comes to mind. Of course, I am thinking of all kinds of themes. I will talk about anti-Semitism today, including one of these. Are we gonna take that, too? In other words, it's so giga...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u185	Yes, we also take that into account in the balance that you have to make in the end and also in the framework. We are identical about that, including the route. Mr Jorritsma said something about the route followed a little over ten years ago in the parliamentary inquiry at the time: first a working group, then a mandate and then a decision. That's the route we imagine. Two. That you're discussing it here? With all due respect, Mr. Schalk, I'm honestly a little surprised. You almost blame us, as the interruption shows, that we are discussing it in public here in the General Reviews, one of the bigger issues our country is struggling with. You say, "Do that in the College of Seniors." So we don't do that in the College of Seniors, perhaps, but primarily here and with each other, because we think it's a big social issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u186	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u187	Let me try to take away the feeling that I would blame something. I indicated that I understand that the point is being named. They are General Political Considerations with the government; so you usually ask questions to the government. My suggestion was whether you could not discuss first in the Seniors' College whether there could be a working group, etcetera. That was the point. I hope that we will take a moment to blame you for raising such an important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u188	I am very happy with this interruption, because it is now out of the sky. We have, of course, informed colleagues and therefore also you carefully beforehand about this idea: look, something on the way to an investigation by the Chamber. We are also talking about the role that senators themselves could play. I have many questions for the government. But here there could also be a role for senators themselves to see whether, from the legislative role we have, plus implementation, this initiative can start on the way to a possible follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u189	Thank you, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u190	Mr. Chairman. The current crisis will require a lot of this and the next cabinet. It's gonna ask a lot of us, but we're gonna do it. Our optimism is strengthened by the fact that, as part of the lesson of this crisis, agreement among most parties is growing on the most important issues for the coming period. Let me briefly mention nine points. In this crisis, I see increasing support for a strong public sector with appreciation for people in vital sectors such as care and education. This calls for more status, good pay, security of work and attention to implementation. I see more progress towards reforms in the labour market that will put an end to the fluctuating flex work. This calls for a new balance between fixed and flex in an active and inclusive labour market policy. I see a government willing to invest in promoting sustainable employment and entrepreneurship, creating jobs in forward-looking sectors. This calls for us to invest out of the crisis as it is now, and not to cut back. I see declining support for the large multinationals. Incidents, poorly adjusted social antennas, disproportionate tax benefits and a wrong lobby have put confidence to the test. This calls for a fair share of the big business that talks along, but does not decide. I see a broad shared analysis and increasing urgency that we need to resolve the climate crisis. This requires at least the implementation of the Paris Convention. And the transition to a green economy requires support for the concept of broad prosperity. I see widespread displeasure about the functioning of the housing market, which means that many young people, start-ups, low-income or middle-income people have the greatest possible difficulty in finding an affordable home. This calls for a housing policy, including public direction, so that we can build, build and build responsibly. In this crisis, too, I see many people attach importance to European cooperation and solidarity. This requires recognition that Europe is more than a currency and the market. I see broad support for the value of a strong democratic rule of law. Behold the sermon of the throne. This calls for unanimity in the promotion of national and international security and the fight against terrorism, undermining and drug-related crime. The fact that most parties commit themselves to these major societal issues does not mean that there are no differences. In fact, that is what the emphasis is on in the daily debate. That's what we're going to see in the upcoming campaign. And that's understandable. But at the present time, most parties differ in priorities, urgency and tempo. It is good to fight about that, but it is also good to put it into perspective. Left and right are still useful and recognizable concepts in politics, but the meaning has changed in recent years. Climate is not just left and security is not just right. Flexibility is not just right-wing and security, it is not just left-wing. In short, there are many differences, but my point is that they are not unbridgeable. The fact that it is more than the pace, rather than the direction, is a valuable observation. This does not apply to parties who find our rule of law corrupt, want to close borders, want to leave the European Union, want to abolish development cooperation and deny the climate crisis. There's the real fundamental, unbridgeable setback. Those are parties that are good to debate, not to govern. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister spoke this spring about perhaps the greatest crisis in peacetime after World War II. At that time, a new welfare state was built up relatively quickly with unified strength. That was an era change. This crisis, too, can and must be used to look beyond the direct effects on the health of citizens and the economy of the country. After all, we do not live in an era of change, but again in a change of era, to say it with Jan Rotmans. That requires a bigger story, a beckoning perspective where we go with our country. What's gonna change? What will improve? How much more attractive is living together, living, working and undertaking over the next ten or twenty years and what does that look like? Consistent work on implementing transitions that are needed for this is poorly related to the four-yearly rhythm of politics. That is precisely why I spoke about the importance of agreeing on the direction we are taking. And it's possible. The Climate Act and the Climate Agreement are good examples of this. A shared vision requires trust and connection. We will need to strengthen the link with the people in the country, especially those who have lost all confidence in politics. This is a challenge which we too do not have the final answer to. We will have to reconnect with the professionals in care and education, for example, so that ownership and professional autonomy become the norm. The value of this connection also applies to civil society organisations and the countries in our Kingdom. Giving confidence is getting trust. As a country, we have an interest in this connection, both nationally and internationally. That connection also applies to the relationship between political parties. We are in the midst of an enormous crisis with an unprecedentedly fragmented political landscape. With the task we face, we will have to focus more on the similarities than the differences. That calls for courageous politics, call it "leadership." Minimum differences between parties require maximum cooperation. But even if the differences are greater, we need to be able to find each other faster. I hear sounds from time to time about a formation that will last for an unprecedented amount of time. But there has to be a shared urgency to get to work quickly with a new cabinet after the elections, with an agenda of which I have mentioned a number of common ambitions. That's what people ask of us. If we get sufficient support from those people, we would like to participate in such a cabinet to work towards a better perspective for people in our country and beyond, based on vision, connection and trust, with constant attention to the power of the rule of law. To say it with a small amendment to the strong sentence of the throne speech: where equality of opportunity is the norm and practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u191	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u192	Mr Rosenmöller talks about minimal differences and maximum cooperation, but with which parties do you see minimal differences? Is that with the VVD, for example, which rolls out your sustainable energy transition? Can you specify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u193	Yes, I could specify that in two ways. The differences between the Labour Party and us could be categorized as fairly minimal. That's why we work intensively together. I believe that the contradiction and distinction with your group is unbridgeable: climate denier, abolition of development cooperation, close borders. That's not gonna work. So you need to clarify politics about what you can work with and with which parties you can shape the future of this country nationally and internationally. I think that this can be done with a lot of parties, but it cannot be done with parties like, for example, yours, for the reasons mentioned, purely on substantive grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u194	I'll take this as a compliment. I would like to thank Mr Rosenmöller for seeing at least that we cannot cooperate with GroenLinks in this area. Look, if we can close a mosque together, I'm your partner. But again the question: do you see differences with the VVD, for example? You're not in the cabinet, but the Prime Minister is rolling out your agenda. So you see differences there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u195	I have argued that, despite the fact that I see that as a lesson from this crisis, not with you but with a number of other parties, conclusions are drawn that offer the prospect of a joint agenda... I have mentioned, for example, the appreciation of the public sector. I have mentioned, for example, the issue of the housing crisis. I have mentioned, for example, the reduction in support for large businesses. I see all these signals. Does this mean that there are differences between parties such as the VVD and ours? Of course, there's a lot of differences. But those are differences that are about priorities, about speed, and a little less about the direction we want to take. You want a completely different direction and that makes our opposition great and unbridgeable. I see this also in Mr Frentrop's story, because these are really big stories: denying climate, stopping migrants, whether temporarily or not, wasting money in Europe. That is not a direction that makes the Netherlands better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u196	Thank you, Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u197	It is clear from this comprehensive answer, for which I thank Mr Rosenmöller, that he clearly does not choose the Netherlands, for which the PVV does choose. And I also see that you are Mr. Rutte's partner in the rollout of the energy transition and the whole climate genesis. Thank you very much for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u198	Mrs Bikker, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u199	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Rosenmöller on his beautiful, constructive contribution and also on the search for what the people in this country really encounter. Then we are talking about the gaps, then we are talking about discrimination. I look forward to further reflection on that proposal that has been made. At the same time, Mr Rosenmöller spoke about the rule of law, which I fully share. My thoughts went back to last year when, together with many colleagues, we tabled a motion which also said to the government in relation to the rule of law: come on, define what is necessary to have a functioning rule of law and show what is needed financially, suppose we come in difficult times. We didn't think it would go so fast then, but that was the important point. That motion has been passed, the result is still zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u200	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u201	My question is: can Mr Rosenmöller, on this very point, be very binding throughout the whole time with a little more fire in this cabinet? Then I am encouraging him, because something really has to be done about this, especially when we look at the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u202	Thank you for Mrs Bikker's encouragement. To be honest, I hesitated for a moment, so this is not an intention, whether I should pay attention to this, but if I did not know that I was involved as the author or first signatory of that motion on the rule of law and the means to be released in good and bad times when it comes to the organisation of the rule of law, which was really initiated months ago by the Minister of Justice and Security, namely the motion. That investigation must lead to a conclusion before the formation, before the elections, and it must be completed. So if your question is: will we call on the cabinet together once again to make sure that that investigation is really done in time so that it can benefit from the way we wanted it together in the next cabinet period, fine, I am your husband.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u203	Thank you, Mrs Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u204	Then my follow-up question, whichever one of us sits at any table, is: will we ensure that the forthcoming cabinet actually manages to reserve these funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u205	Mr Rosenmöller, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u206	Yes. That is what we are going to do in this area and, as far as I am concerned, in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u207	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. I would like to give the floor to Mr Knapen, who will speak on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u208	Mr. Chairman. In an earlier life I have sometimes complained about the relatively little attention our media devotes to France and Germany. For us, it is crucial neighbouring countries that we often treat as foreign. Journalism is also quite a challenge to serve a French or German political debate to the patriotic public. Compared to that, daily strapats in Washington and surroundings are actually piece of cake. It is familiar to us, it also sells itself as entertainment on the publicity market and the language is most people nearby. So it's usually about America, too. But fair is fair. These days, I'm gonna have to swallow that criticism. The overwhelming attention to the United States is justified this time. Because it makes a big difference to the political climate, including ours here in Europe, who will win next week in Washington. Do populism and polarization get new thermals, or does calmness again have more space? That also makes a lot of difference for the atmosphere on this side of the ocean. But let me begin in the midst of this uncertainty to compliment the cabinet for the leadership shown in the corona crisis for the summer. Admirable how much the cabinet was then willing and able to share both doubts and dilemmas and nevertheless to provide adequate guidance. What is even more important is that at that time it appeared once again that the vast majority of our population is benevolent, hard-working and willing to sacrifice. We usually like to complain, but meanwhile we also live here in a country with mainly people of good will. The corona crisis has also allowed for a renaissance of competence. Expertise and science prove to be indispensable and valued at such a time. Of course there's a small company of deniers. They are driven by uncertainty, sometimes by resentment, and certainly by an intense desire to belong to something. Social media, with their power to seduction, addiction and polarization, can lead a person to get lost in the algorithms of one's own equal. But corona denial, despite all the fuss, remains a peripheral phenomenon. What we saw was a revival of competence and a very reasonable debate, looking for a balance between public health and the economy. The second wave, now, is much more difficult for all of us, including the cabinet and parliament. The grumpy is increasing, we now also have 10 million federal coaches in corona. We also live here in a country that once invented the intranslatable verb "tolerant." In the meantime, we trust that the cabinet will not be moved by all the excitement and we wish it a certain degree of unflinchingness. Mr. Chairman. The current corona crisis also exposes sharper and bolder developments that have been dormant for much longer. Our dependence here in Europe on distant countries like China and India, also on simple medicines, but also on the vulnerability, for example, of so manyzzp'ers. And certainly also the difference in perspective for different groups in society. This difference in perspective gnaws. We must not forget that post-war democratic stability was based on an implicit social contract. This was based on a steady rise in living standards for all. The confidence in that contract was already strong a decade ago, during the banking crisis. Then it became apparent to everyone what has been unfolding for a long time, namely that middle incomes are stagnant, that job insecurity is growing and that, above all, low-skilled people are affected by technological progress and globalisation. Even then, we also saw an increased need to designate scapegoats: the political elite, the bankers, the immigrants, the foreigners. As far as we have sought answers to these developments too reluctantly in the aftermath, the corona crisis is now a real wake-up call. Because there is another huge group of potential victims, especially young people, who are being saddled with a false start. And that's bitter. Mr. Chairman. In this light, the proposals put forward by the cabinet make a very reasonable impression on the whole. A major blow to personnel in industry is being prevented for the time being. Investment is being made in future earning capacity. Social safety nets are tense. There's something extra for the front workers in the hospitals. And even across the board, purchasing power is improving. But before we just knock ourselves on the chest, we also have a relative remark that might be appropriate in this house. It is always striking to see how much this country empathises with its international environment, as if political preferences hardly matter in our country. Let me give you a few examples. Half a century ago, a huge government was in fashion. Still, not a social democrat, but the VVD'er Hans Wiegel, as Minister of the Interior, has the Dutch record officials in his name. Next, the west wind of privatisation, market forces and deregulation blew over this country in full force. Not a liberal, but the late Social Democrat Wim Kok, much appreciated, is still record holder privatisations. Ten years ago, after the banking crisis, austerity was the motto everywhere. Christian Democrat De Jager drove from group room to group room to unite from VVD to GroenLinks parties behind a strict austerity programme. And now, ten years later, the opposite happens. Now an incredible amount of money is being thrown into the system all over the world. So that's what's happening here. It fits in with the current international communist opinio of everyday mind. But it also illustrates the relativeness of all the widely measured differences between the many political parties in our country. We are less driven by political views than by the international trend and the spirit of time. But he who marries the spirit of the time can soon become a widower, as a well-known philosopher taught us. However, one question remains with us. The Council of State also pointed this out. Is there any idea how the financial waterfall could be channeled again? If I understand correctly, but I'm happy to be corrected, it's actually like this: either we're growing out of debt because of this monetary dike break or we're not growing. In the latter case, money stays free and we can continue to borrow. Is it true that there is never a problem? Have we indeed definitively abolished inflation? Mr. Chairman. Because of the coronadramas we would almost forget what kept the country in its grip and will undoubtedly do so again later, namely the distribution of the limited space we have here. This is indicated by keywords such as climate or nitrogen. Especially with nitrogen, we've got ourselves in a hell of a lot of trouble. At some point that covid anesthetic is worked out and then the subject is again on the table in all intensity. We have also allowed ourselves the questionable luxury of sometimes intense polarization, while we all know that everyone will have to settle in at the end of the day. We call it nitrogen, but in fact we are talking about the socio-economic development of our country. It is about housing and infrastructure, about agriculture and nature and about the spatial planning needed for this. We live here with a lot more people than we thought at the beginning of this century and that in an already very densely populated country. I have the following question to the cabinet: are the cabinet's latest proposals the long-awaited way out or are there any other surprises waiting for us? This question is mainly motivated by the widespread sense of need to finally know where we stand. Mr. Chairman. I devote a single word to security and crime. I spoke about this last year. It has been said many times here: this country is a walhalla for drugs. We are the largest chemical drug producer in Europe and probably also in the world. This is accompanied by horrible and debilitating excrements, which we all know. The Noordanus Committee recently issued a recommendation that it should finally be put to work. Last year, one of my group colleagues asked the Minister of Justice not to do this simply with money, but with a delta plan which, as happened at the time with the Delta Works, we are determined to persevere for years. Police and justice, as well as all kinds of parties in society, must be involved in this plan for many years, from the notary to the chemical industry, from the car rental company to the waterboard, from the WhatsApp group from the district to the director of the school. This plan must be accompanied by a long-standing government campaign, aimed at all Dutch people, not to look away. We also did this in the fight against smoking. It may have taken a long time, but eventually it worked. So no more ad hoc improvisations with tough language and heads in chocolate letters in the newspaper, when we startled again from a horrible find. No, we're asking for a delta plan, perhaps with some kind of government commissioner at the head that's being held up for years. That is what we are doing for this other threat, for that of the dikes and the rising sea level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u209	Maybe Mr. Knapen, like me, is enjoying the Netflix Series Undercover. If not, that's highly recommended. Apart from that, we've talked about this before. You mentioned the fight against the break-through of the dikes. We've been talking for decades about more repression and about putting more people on it, but the real turning point will be to see which drugs you can legalize. How can you change your list? Certain soft drugs can be legalized and you could look at certain forms of MDMA. That would help the real breakthrough. Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u210	I said at the beginning something about interest in France and Germany. In my opinion, the best series Baron Noir from CANAL+ is at the moment. I'll give you an alternative if you're gonna watch shows anyway. This is what we're talking about. Even in Canada, where all kinds of experiments are currently being carried out with the possible legalization of drugs, it is noted that it is a failure. Why? Because the illegality of this industry is so great that it is a dominant phenomenon in this whole discussion. We've been saying it to each other for years. There's always been that contradiction here. We are against drugs, let there be no misunderstanding. Even if you were in favour of it, that is also stated in the latest Tops and Tromp report, it is a hopeless thing to let go of the illegality and the crime involved. That is the essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u211	Mr Knapen himself said very nicely: whoever marries the spirit of the time is quickly widowed. I think your comment is a bit of a time-spirit comment. I think we should think bigger, because we've been trying this for decades. You were just talking about international cooperation. So you just need to see if you can tilt the tide. So it is not with one or two countries that you should look together to see how you can come up with some sort of legalisation policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u212	I see that point, but I do not agree with Mrs Bredenoord that we have been trying this for decades. In fact, we've been trying to put this into perspective for decades. I called the verb "tolerant." It's a bit of a look-away. We're just gonna wave it away a little bit, like, "Oh, you should be able to do it." So I don't think we've been trying this for decades. I just want to point out that this problem continues to be huge, which you will also find at the end of the day of legalization of soft drugs. I have indicated my position. It's a denial to pretend to solve it by legalizing the case, because even experiments, like in Canada, indicate that it can't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u213	Follow up on your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u214	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on this cabinet and Europe. If we try to get out of the flattened paths of Europhils and Eurosceptics, we must first of all see that we need each other more than ever in this part of Europe. Because in division, we are vulnerable to anything that comes at us in threats, whether it's Google, China, Putin, Trump or the instability south of the Mediterranean. Does this Prime Minister sufficiently include the Dutch public in the realization that we therefore need each other more than ever, or does the temptation remain to simply play the easy card and indicate what's wrong with Brussels, what's wrong with Italy, what's wrong with Greece, what's wrong with et cetera, et cetera, etc., so that you can see at the end of the ride that we've actually hit ourselves pretty well? Mr. Chairman. Our Prime Minister fought like a lion to nibble off the big support package for the southern countries. But what exactly is the profit from that? In our country it is noted that the resistance has not been very successful and that it has been found outside our country that it has not been very constructive. It's both a little true. Isn't this all too much maneuvering about goat paths without knowing exactly where we're going? You may have great political admiration for that, and I do, but it can be strategically damaging. Target's getting out of sight. There's not enough visibility. Is it not true that a Prime Minister, that this government, that this cabinet should take people into an overarching narrative from the need to emphasize the added value of a closer alliance in Europe? If you do not have a perspective, then every compromise in Europe actually turns out to be a defeat, because in a compromise, we deliver something that we do not want to yield. And why would we, at risk, end up like some kind of David Cameron? It is only with a strategy that takes a closer alliance with our European environment as a starting point that one can proudly proclaim in one's own country that we have contributed to a compromise, that we have strengthened the core of Europe and that this may cost something. A story with a perspective can make a compromise a success. A story without vision makes a compromise a defeat. In the meantime, our Prime Minister has so "successful"....... and I write it in quotes.... for a lower Dutch contribution that we have dropped two important other things: more money for innovation, which is really important to our country and, to which we also attach great importance, a harder stick behind the door against countries such as Hungary and Poland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u215	It is always a pleasure to listen to my colleague, Mr Knapen, and to all the other group chairmen because his past is still to be heard in the full sentences he is presenting to us here. I notice that it is very contemplative what has happened. I was triggered by the phrase "not the differences between themselves, but the international spirit of time determines a little what we are doing here." I thought Mr Knapen was a little too distant there. It is the CDA, the party that has played an important role here for many years in the administration of the country, which has experienced a lot of these times. Time spirit does not come over you; spirit of time is a product of human action of course. So the question to Mr Knapen, in line with the questions I asked Annemarie Jorritsma, is: what has the CDA learned? The CDA was there all the time. Last year we talked about social housing, that it had been broken down and should come back. We're a year away. How's it going? What do you think of abolishing the landlord's tax, for example? It is nice to take a general view, but we are also talking today about the budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u216	I would like to refer directly to the last part of the text, which is just two paragraphs, and I would like to return to the nature of this debate for a moment. As far as we are concerned, the questions which Mr Kox rightly raises could have been properly included in the Financial Reviews. You know that we have discussed whether we should have this debate at all this year. They are General Reviews, General Political Reviews. I've tried very nicely to keep that title. They are general and political and we will be able to speak in a great deal of detail in future debates, but especially when draft laws come here. That is why I formulated it as I put it, but if you have a specific question on a specific subject, I would like to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u217	Considerations about the past are extremely valuable to learn what we could do in the future. We can come back to this later, but I am curious to see how the CDA feels about the landlord levy in view of the 2021 budget. Should we get rid of that so that we can build more homes, freeze the rents, restore social housing? Do we really have to get rid of the loan system? How do we deal with the social workshops? Questions that have all been played and answered in a certain way in the past, with and without the support of the CDA. I would like to know not only "what did you think of it" but also "what do you think of it" in a general discussion. Where are we gonna go with all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u218	And that in a brief answer, Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u219	A little along the lines of Mr Rosenmöller who mentioned the large number of agreements between a number of parties in this house, I have indicated that you are not only seeing that in the past, but actually now. There has actually been little discussion as to whether this cabinet acted correctly by sending huge packages of support to society. You can see, when it is supported from left to right with little nuances at most, how such a process goes. If you say that in the Lower House it might be a bit of a game spoil, because that's what Freud once called the narcissism of magnifying the small difference. But we can look at that a little more remotely here. Then those differences aren't that big.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u220	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr. Bredenoord. Excuse me, to Mrs. Bredenoord on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u221	I'm not gonna comment on this for a second. Mr. Chairman. I know that Mr Knapen and I are quite in line when it comes to friendly Europeans. So I am also pleased that he has just made a comment on this and asked a question to the cabinet about not neglecting the European alliance. Now I've been a little worried about that for the past few weeks because your fellow party member Omtzigt. I just saw that he's number two on the CDA's electoral list. I'm in favour of opt-outs within the European Union. I hope that Mr Knapen can reassure me that that is not the direction the CDA is thinking of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u222	We are having this debate on government policy and not on discussions, in this case of my party, on an election programme, but I can help Mrs Bredenoord by saying that we are not talking about opt-outs within our party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u223	I'm really glad to hear that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u224	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Knapen for his interesting and thorough speech. I also found no reason to interrupt him in the middle of the argument. That's why I'm gonna do it at the end. Like Mrs. Jorritsma, you also took middle groups in the mouth. I'd be happy to support that. How do you feel about the fact that 3 million elderly people have been falling sharply in purchasing power for 13 years and are not being indexed in the coming years when they get very large discounts? What place do those 3 million people who worked hard and helped build the Netherlands deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u225	We have often discussed with the esteemed colleague Van Rooijen an issue that is close to him, namely pensions. At the end of the journey we were all happy, perhaps even relieved, that there is a pension agreement coming up. We very much hope that it will be brought to a successful conclusion, because this pension agreement offers the opportunity to do justice to all parties and also to pensioners in the balance between young and old and in the balance between men and women to some extent. I fully agree with Mr Van Rooijen that it is poignant to see that a large group could actually be affected by the arrangements we have made and, in some cases, has already suffered. It is a subject that is broader than just pensioners. We know that from each other. It is a subject of solidarity between generations where something needs to be done on both sides to ensure that we maintain that solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u226	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. A brief closing question, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u227	First of all, I fully agree with Mr Knapen: when you talk about pensions, you talk about young and old, and it is up to the elderly to ensure that young people will receive a good pension. We agree on that, but can you state... You call it harrowing; we agree on that. But do you think that something should be done about this in the short term, not only because there is uncertainty about the future among those people, but also because they have fallen short in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u228	I find it difficult, while the debate on the pension agreement still has to be held and still has to go down in laws, to anticipate what the cabinet is doing with it. A little cowardly, but I do mean it: I would like to pass that question on to the cabinet, and I suspect that today they will be able to give no more than a very general answer, because the translation will follow. But I share your concern, and I'm curious to see what the cabinet will come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u229	Then I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u230	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a small reflection on the debate we are having today, because I am telling you frankly: our group had a little hesitation, especially at this exciting time. We even suggested doing the Financial and General Reviews together this year. After all, we are mainly here to look at legislative proposals that the main political hurdle has already taken. That is how we see our role here. Our authority lies primarily with him, and I agree with Mr Jorritsma in the adoption and rejection of legislative proposals and in the care with which we argue such decisions. Because that argument is then going to play a role in the implementation of pathways up to the courts. I would therefore like to call on everyone here to continue the debate in this spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u231	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Vos, who will speak on behalf of the D66 Group. Excuse me, at least she'll speak on behalf of the Labour Party. If it's on behalf of others, we'll find out. It got really late last night, so that's what you get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u232	Mr President, I understand you with this lack of sleep and I hope that we can finish it in time tonight. Mr. Chairman. During World War II, 75 years ago, the men in Sint-Michielsgestel made plans to build the country after the war. That land was in ruins, there was very deep division among the people and there was also a lot of grief. The Netherlands should be better off from that war. Those men had a vision, I say to the Prime Minister. The reconstruction of the Netherlands was a success. There was education that made quarters of dimes; housing, so that everyone could live in a neat rental or buying house; a fine infrastructure and prosperity growth for everyone. The politicians also built a solid foundation of international law. The Refugee Treaty and the European Union are the reflection of the deep conviction that such a war must never again be waged and that we should never again leave refugees to their fate. Mr. Chairman. We also face huge challenges in 2020. They are different than 75 years ago, but a number of parallels can be drawn. We have a health crisis, an economic crisis and a social crisis, and we still have this disruptive climate crisis and this poignant refugee crisis. Like 75 years ago, we must start rebuilding again, and it must go beyond the health crisis of recent months. In May and at the beginning of this month, our three planning agencies.......................................................................................................................................................................................... The PvdA Group would like to exchange views with this government on how to get healthier, greener and more equal out of this crisis. The PvdA Group is concerned about a number of groups of people who have already had a hard time, but are even more affected by the effects of the corona pandemic, for example our vulnerable elderly people, people with disabilities and the people who cared for them. Their nursing homes were closed in April and there were too many elderly people in solitary confinement for ten weeks. A lady I spoke about said that she had experienced the fear of war as a child, but she also said that she could remember the comfort and solidarity from then on. Now she hadn't visited any of her family for ten weeks to share her grief. Ten weeks no visitors, no hugs, when she needed it so badly! Her son was buried two days before the closure of the nursing homes. And that crazy loneliness! It still hurt her to talk about that. Me too. In disability care, the measures are sometimes heartbreaking. People with disabilities need to move; their permanent escorts are not easily recognizable, by providing care in plastic aprons, glasses and mouth caps. One can no longer receive visits from parents, as the number of infected employees and clients increases. It's very painful. Care workers are working their asses off. Still an extra service and still no vacation, because your clients need you! In health care, you don't say no to people. People live in nursing care and disability care, and you can't close departments like you can in hospitals. Due to the corona crisis, care is painfully felt that there was and still is a shortage of employees. The question is also whether the current employees are going to keep up. A few weeks ago I was in a nursing home in Erp and a number of employees said they didn't want to experience a second wave. They are surprised and sometimes angry at the people who demonstrate in polonaise against the measures. They've also been traumatized by what they've seen and by what they've been through. One of the nurses said: my tears are gone; I don't want to go through that anymore. Mr. Chairman. That applause for the care they have received with mixed feelings. That mess about the health bonus they're going through. What they need is more time to do their job well and more room for reflection, intervision, talking to colleagues, time to catch their breath, time to take off days. If that stays structurally out, more employees will drop out with burn-outs, or drop out. Does the Prime Minister recognize this analysis? For the PvdA Group, it is clear that we need to take measures now to ensure that these people stay in care and have more colleagues. The crisis time has shown that the forced abandonment of rules gives more opportunities to work together across the borders of institutions, and that often leads to better than worse care. Then why is it that the government is not able to shape this in a structural way? For years, the programme (Ont) has organised the Zorg scraping sessions and (Ont) has sent busses into the country, but the effects are very limited, according to research. Or they'll be nullified by new laws and rules. We're responsible for that ourselves. Care needs to be organised smarter to deliver the right care in the right place without much bureaucracy. An ESC committee is currently exploring the opportunities and opportunities to remove the bottlenecks in attracting and retaining healthcare professionals, so that the new cabinet can work with the conclusions. Mr. Chairman. In the education cao there is scope for sustainable employability and very focused on the prevention of burn-outs. My question to the government is: isn't the ESC committee going to be late? What lessons has the government itself learned in recent years and how does it intend to contribute in the coming months to improving the organisation, working conditions in health care? Every month we wait, we see as one month too much. What is the government going to do in this period of government to relieve the burden of care workers and to make more people work in health care? Is the government willing to make a plan with healthcare staff themselves to give more time and space for sustainable employability? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group is also deeply concerned about young people who should have been internship or just wanted to enter the labour market. They've been cut off from the opportunity to show up in the last few months. They're cut off from the best way to learn how the world works. Doesn't look like there's gonna be another internship anytime soon. Especially in the MBO we heard and read about yesterday where students really have to learn their profession in practice, this means that the shortage of internships can be a disaster. This summer I got an email from a student and she started with "hi!'. Of course, I was kind of grumpy about the catchphrase, 'cause you don't, you know, talk to someone you don't know with "hi"? I emailed her back a little cranky with the remark that e-mails that you start in such a way usually end up in the spambox. She e-mailed me right back. No one had ever told her that! That's how everyone in her neighborhood did it. It is so important that students can gain practical experience, and that is not only true for MBO students. During an internship you can see how the dynamics in the group work, how you are in relation to others, what forms of interaction are appropriate. A generation doesn't seem to get a coach to learn these kinds of processes, because when the corona crisis is over, there is another generation eager to do internships. Mr. Chairman. And now the question to the government. Has it identified this group of students and trainees and what is it going to do to resolve, together with student organisations, secondary and higher education and industry, the lack of traineeships to contribute to the development of these young people to skilled workers? What is the responsibility of the central government in this regard as a major employer and client? Mr. Chairman. Another subject. David Attenborough has shown in his last series how during his life people have just destroyed large parts of the earth: a scene about Borneo, the rainforest, beautiful, and how that shrunk from an island to a point. It's painful to see. We hope his documentary wakes up more people. We need to change our behavior now. I do see a parallel with the current corona measures. If we can now sacrifice for our elderly and people with weak health to prevent infections, could we not do so now for our young people? It's their world, it's their future they'll soon have to live in. Is it not time to stop the industrial way of keeping animals, using 70% of our agricultural land? Why do we have to produce all that meat for export and stay stuck with the filth? Mr. Chairman. There is a bold solution that fits in with the spirit of reconstruction and the Delta Works: taking the animal out of the food chain. Shouldn't the Netherlands become a precursor in the research and production of farmed meat and milk directly from grass? The lack of investors threatens to stop the commercial development of farmed meat and milk directly from grass. In the Lower House, they're talking about the Growth Fund. According to the PvdA, which has quite a vision of the economy here, this would typically be such a project that you could finance from the Growth Fund. It reduces CO, it leads to animal welfare, it leads to a cleaner environment and it makes us a pioneer in innovation again. I would like a response from the government to this proposal. Ambition begins with small steps. Now there is a Frisian plan that I hear from my colleague, Crone, who deserves to be followed throughout the Netherlands. There various parties, supermarkets, local authorities talk about 2 cents extra on a litre of milk. That extra money goes to nature recovery, biodiversity, grazing animals. If you did that on a national scale, it would lead to a fund of EUR 100 million a year. Is the government prepared to look at that Frisian plan and consider rolling it out on a national scale? Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is still amazed at the heartlessness shown by the cabinet after burning out the camp in Moria. Like a Scrooge grocery store, so that people didn't have to be talked about. The images of people who had to sleep on a carpet of mud this fall turn our stomachs. This cabinet has a few months left to do what it has to do: take in people with the benevolent countries and have the procedure followed here. Not everyone can stay here, but they certainly can't stay in Moria. How many people have arrived here of those 100? What is the government going to do, together with the benevolent countries, to help the people who are still in Moria, but rather to ensure that the distribution of refugees among the European countries is at last moving quickly and well? Mr President, one final comment. Last year, during the APB, I told about Yusuf Khalid, the 14-year-old who was allowed to give the children's speech about depression in children, and then about the racist dung that that boy got over him. At the time, the Prime Minister agreed with the PvdA Group that combating racism is a chefsache. We would therefore like to thank the government for working on the fight against racism despite all the stress over corona and for the government's recognition of the need to tackle institutional racism. The PvdA therefore wholeheartedly supports Mr Jorritsma and Mr Rosenmöller's proposal to investigate the failure to enforce Article 1 of the Constitution. Finally, Mr President. 2020 is a sad, boring, scary and very lonely year for too many people. We also hope that this will be the year in which we will start the reconstruction together and that we will be driven by an ideal, a vision, just like the man in Sint-Michielsgestel, to make the Netherlands a greener, healthier and more equal country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord, who will speak on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u234	We actually need a mask holder. Mr. Chairman. Today it is the last General Political Reviews of this cabinet in the First Chamber. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to take this opportunity to take stock of more than three years of Rutte III. If the formation goes smoothly there will be another cabinet next year. But I would particularly like to discuss with the government the corona crisis and the period that comes next. After all, this pandemic is a stress test for our democracy and for the rule of law and strengthens the inequality of opportunity in society. We are all waiting with sorrow for a vaccine, but we must not assume that it will be ready at the beginning of 2021. So we need to see a broad corona approach as a marathon instead of a sprint. People are still getting infected and they are getting sick, just like our group chairman in the House of Representatives Rob Jetten. Mr. Chairman. After a long formation we arrived at a coalition of VVD, CDA, D66 and the Christian Union. The attitude and direction of these parties are often quite different. My own field of expertise, medical ethics, is an excellent example of this. But with D66 as a progressive engine in the cabinet, many things have been achieved in three years that have improved or will improve the quality of life for people. I am thinking, for example, of higher teacher's salaries, money for lower workload, money for scientific research, greater partner's leave at births. Many new homes were built in 2018, there is more budget to support Parliament, there was a children's pardon, there was an amendment to the Donor Act. From the seat of the future, which I was talking about last year, we turned a decisive change when it comes to climate and retirement. So you see, politics matters. We are proud of what has been achieved, but is it enough? No, of course not. It is never finished and it goes through the compromises that are inevitable in a coalition government often not as far as you would like, as I would like at least. The question is then always when it is enough to cooperate and when you think it is too little. If in twenty years' time I am 60 years old looking back on my membership of the First Chamber, I think very good steps have been taken, but it is not enough yet. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. The government played a unique role in the outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 virus this spring. We all took it for granted that it is our joint responsibility to guarantee part of the income of people in these times of crisis through the NOW, Tozo and the other support measures during the corona crisis. The public intervention was in line with a renewed appreciation of the government and a strong public sector. It fits with a social-liberal acting government with a political agenda of freedom, emancipation, social justice and also control of people. Release everyone and nobody falls. The pandemic of the coronavirus affects some people much harder than others. It has already been said today, and certainly yesterday. It exposes the existing vulnerabilities in our society. Unfortunately, we saw people in vulnerable positions who became sicker than others, who lost their jobs, children who could not use a computer or an increase in gender-based violence during school closure. Moreover, too many people still do not have access to a decent home, too many young people do not find a job or an internship. Corona policy must therefore be placed not only along the bar of public health, but also along the bar of equality of opportunity. In addition, the Millions Note rightly refers to the broad concept of prosperity. Measures must also be taken along the lines of this broad concept of prosperity. That means not only health, but also that your business isn't going bankrupt, that you can buy a house, that you can still meet at restaurant or theatre, that you can go to school and college, that you breathe clean air, that it's in line with the Climate Agreement. Let us preserve the pearls and foundations of open society, even in a crisis, as much as possible. Keeping art and culture open within responsible boundaries is an important part of this. Right now we need critical thinking, consolation, aesthetics and stimulating imagination. Moreover, the cultural sector is an important source of employment. I have just mentioned some of the principles that are guiding the corona policy as far as the D66 Group is concerned, both now and in the future. We realise that it is a difficult balance between guaranteeing care capacity for corona patients, not scaling down other necessary care and broader, important values and freedoms. The policy now seems to be reacting to increasing infections, it has great outliers and it is sometimes not predictable. This is all gonna take a while. Could the Prime Minister once again reflect on what the principles of this cabinet are in the corona policy? What's the target? I'd like a reflection. Mr. Chairman. The countries that seem to have a relatively successful corona approach have one thing in common. They have spacious and fast access to corona tests and have a fast source and contact research. Both BCO and testing policies remain a vulnerable issue in the Netherlands. On several occasions, my group has indicated that tests without complaints should also be possible after a positive notification of the CoronaMelder app or the GGD. What is the current state of play with regard to laboratory capacity and GGD personnel, we would like to ask the Prime Minister. And if a vaccine is available in 2021, is the Netherlands ready for a large-scale vaccination programme? We would like to hear more about these preparations. Mr. Chairman. During the lockdown all schools were closed as well. Fathers and mothers suddenly became masters and teachers. For children where there was no safe home situation, where parents could not take lessons, where families in small homes were on top of each other for weeks or where there was no laptop or Wi-Fi and where the school could not actively jump into digital lessons, the opportunity gap between vulnerable and less vulnerable families only increased. Does the cabinet have an idea of the impact on the different groups of students? And is the Prime Minister going to make the most of another lockdown to prevent this situation? Mr. Chairman. In the Lower House a motion was adopted that more information on the ic-triage protocol should be provided in phase 3, code black. And also yesterday, during the debate on the corona law, this was discussed. It is about the triage protocol that comes into effect when the pressure on intensive care becomes so high that there is a shortage of ic-spots. It has been prepared by the KNMG and the Federation of Medical Specialists with input from among others the Health and Youth Inspectorate, civil society organisations and also ethicists. I was involved in it sideways myself. It is obvious that I hope that we will never get into this scenario, but we must be prepared for it. What is the current state of the protocol? My group would also like to hear the views of the cabinet on this protocol. When, how and by whom will it enter into force and how do you see the role of the cabinet and parliament in this? Mr. Chairman. On several occasions, we have heard our Prime Minister say in his foreign lectures that the future of the Netherlands lies in the European Union and that joint action by the EU is imperative. This applies all the more to joint action during the corona crisis. Because, of course, the virus doesn't stick to national boundaries. Unfortunately, however, there was little European coordination in the Corona approach. Each country has its own protective equipment, its own ic policy, travel advice and notification apps. Some countries have 1 meter, others have 1.5 meters or somewhere in between. Health care has traditionally been an area left to the national Member States, but the corona crisis shows that we need to distinguish between health care policies in general and public health, i.e. prevention and public health. Does the Prime Minister share the view that better European cooperation in the field of public health is needed, specifically with regard to the prevention and coordination of diseases and viruses of a cross-border nature? Can the Prime Minister promise that we will take steps to achieve better coordination in this area? My group is considering a second-term motion on this point. Another concrete example is travel restrictions within the European Union. It is a patchwork of colors, advice and restrictions. But Schengen and the free movement of people also came into lockdown. What steps are being taken to improve coordination within the EU? When will there be a single set of travel rules within the EU? Again, it is a marathon, not a sprint. The nationalist reflex of closing borders is harmful. I'd like a response. Another example is the interoperability of tracing apps. Some of the infections of Dutch people occur abroad or in border regions. Then it is so convenient that the different corona apps can communicate with each other. Of course, these apps have to comply with the privacy by design conditions as we do in the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. What also revealed the corona crisis was the bitter need for a merciful European asylum and migration policy. If we are to build refugee camps in Greece for the first reception of asylum seekers, these camps must first of all provide a decent standard of living and secondly, they are explicitly temporary reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u235	I couldn't help it when Mrs Bredenoord talked about making that app interoperable. In comparison with other European countries, I believe we have spent some 300% more hours debating this than has happened elsewhere, but you said that all these apps in Europe must comply with the Dutch privacy conditions. Does Mrs Bredenoord agree with me that this is a textbook example of how things always go wrong, because you want everyone to work together, but of course in the image and likeness of ourselves? You will see, as soon as you communicate with other countries about this, that they have slightly different views in all other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u236	I can reassure Mr Knapen, because these privacy by design conditions come from the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation. So that's what the other countries will have to stick to. Some provisions are more general, so there is some difference about interpretation, but the conditions in general are in the GDPR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u237	That may be the case, but in a number of countries it has been said because of the haste: we are going to work on this and then see to what extent we can adapt it further. France has been a good example of this. So they've chosen a different system. So this question to the government is actually asking ourselves something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u238	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u239	I would like to thank Mr Knapen for that, but that does not mean that we can introduce an app that does not comply with our own European privacy rules. I agree with you that we are all going to have to take a step forward by working together, but I think that the minimum basis is the legislation we have agreed on. I'm gonna follow up on my story. This means that there must be a rapid prospect of people getting a place in the European Union, or that they do not qualify for it. The situation for the people in the camps is now hopeless, a situation that my group regards as totally unacceptable in prosperous Europe in 2020. Is the government prepared to make a real effort to establish a working system with the migration pact? Can this pact prevent such inhumane situations and how will the Netherlands assume its responsibility? Will the Prime Minister himself be actively involved in this? And is he willing to join forces with Merkel? Mr. Chairman. The coronavirus is a zoonoses, disease or infection that jumps from animal to human. With a much too intensive bio-industry and trade in exotic animals, we remain vulnerable. In addition, we have a major nitrogen problem. The only thing that really seems to have happened so far to reduce nitrogen emissions is to reduce speed on motorways. If you look at zoonoses, at nitrogen, at all the problems caused by the intensive bio-industry, what conclusions does the Prime Minister draw? We now see that the corona policy stands or falls with effective behavior change. Does not the same apply to achieving the objectives of the Climate Agreement? Does the cabinet have sufficient attention to this and if so, in what form?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u240	I very much agree with Mr Bredenoord that zoonoses, by definition, cross over from the animal world to humanity and that intensive livestock farming and bio-industry undoubtedly play a role in this and also play a role in the failure to achieve our climate objectives. Mr Bredenoord rightly refers to this by the Prime Minister, but I would also like to ask her what D66 has done to reduce livestock farming during this cabinet period. I know that your colleague in the House of Representatives said that it should be 50% less. What has D66 actually done in the cabinet to ensure that any of that 50% reduction is achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u241	I think that my party has played a very important role in the fact that there has been a climate agreement in this cabinet at all, with a significant CO reduction. Secondly, we are calling for a sustainable solution to the problem of nitrogen rather than a quick ruse. I didn't ask the Prime Minister for nothing. Thirdly, it is well known that we are in favour of a transition to circular agriculture and that we want to help farmers to experience that transition, so that they can still have a decent life, or to help them find another job. I told you, you always have to compromise in a cabinet. This is typically something where we can go a lot harder as far as I'm concerned, but eventually you do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u242	But there might be the crux: you do it together, but that also means that you swallow a lot of coalition. For example, if there is a corona contamination caused by mink farming, which is also dangerous for public health, then as a coalition partner you could speak harder to your other coalition partners and say: that mink breeding must be closed immediately. But D66 doesn't. It is becoming a little obligatory when you say that livestock farming needs to be reduced by 50% and that all kinds of zoonoses need to be reduced, but it does not do anything about it. You're part of a cabinet that doesn't do much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u243	Mr Koffeman and I really do not appreciate that. I could say again: at least we are doing something about it. I really think that we have taken important steps. It is historic that we have reached a climate agreement with a cabinet and that we are working together to achieve the objectives of Paris. It is historic that we are now talking about a radical reduction in nitrogen emissions, that we are talking about circular agriculture. Are you gonna be okay soon enough? No, it's not fast enough, I totally agree with you. But we are doing a great deal about it and I think that we are a very important push to move in the right direction. Eventually, you achieve more by working together in a coalition than by saying it's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u244	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u245	Finally. It is a bit easy to say: at least we make dirty hands and on the side you stand empty-handed. Dirty empty hands aren't gonna get us anything either. You can't make a deal with the climate. That's very important, I think. The moment you don't put the urgency in the cabinet policy, it's the question whether you demand enough from your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u246	I didn't mention those dirty hands. Those are the words of Mr Koffeman himself. I think that everything in me and in my text does reflect that urgency. Mr. Chairman. Last year, I asked the Prime Minister about the contours, goals and timetable of the Growth Fund. He promised us that we could discuss the first project proposals in the 2020 Political Reviews. Are the first applications indeed to be assessed by the Commission? It is now clear that over the next five years, the Growth Fund will have a cumulative budget of 20 billion available for infrastructure, innovation and whether or not fundamental research. My group welcomes these investments and the objectives set. As Mariana Mazzucato described in The Entrepreneurship State, it is a popular misunderstanding that the private sector stands for creativity and entrepreneurship and the public sector for rigidity and bureaucracy. Mazzucato shows, through various examples, how public, sometimes even risky investments have led to, for example, the Internet and clean energy technologies. The conditions of the Growth Fund state that applications should contribute to GDP growth, but also address broad prosperity and sustainability targets. How is the Commission going to assess this concretely? And what if 8 billion is requested and all applications meet the conditions? Can more be awarded, or is there 4 billion per year available? If that is the case, will the Commission then select and, if so, on what criteria? I ask these questions because I myself am often on assessment committees, including from NWO and the German BMBF. We almost always have to deal with multiple applications that score excellently on quality. So you need additional selection criteria that have already been announced in advance. Mr. Chairman. In the year when the United Nations celebrates its 75th anniversary, European cooperation, multilateralism, mutual understanding and a constructive attitude are more necessary than ever. No matter how different we all are, we all want to solve major societal issues in our way and improve the quality of life for people. Good steps have been taken, but it is not good enough yet. Progressive liberalism means you can never sit back. "Not good enough" doesn't mean reading more pieces for me personally, but trying even better to understand how we can work together better and polarize less. We look forward to the Prime Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u247	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u248	Mr. Chairman. While Sinterklaas has to sneak into the country secretly in a secret location, we are allowed to continue playing Sinterklaas for the rest of the world. According to Rutte, the Netherlands is at its core a socialist country. With this vile qualification, the nepliberal Rutte gives himself carte blanche to press the rejected of the earth firmly and inclusively to his chest. And as a real socialist, he lets our hard-earned taxpayers' money roll over the globe richly. He unscrupulously signed a package of 1,800 billion for his bosses in Brussels, of which 100 billion will be on the Dutch taxpayer's plate. Indigestible. First, Rutte cut our country down for years to play Sugar Daddy for countries like Spain, France and Italy. And against previous agreements, he also joins us with joint European debts for which we are going to guarantee and which will never, ever be repaid. For example, French pensionados can be delicious all day long since 62 years, while our AOWs guarantee their debt. While our healthcare workers can only dream about their bonus, French and Italian healthcare workers enjoy a salary increase of €2,000, to which our employees pay in the care. They should all have been civil servants, because they would have already had a raise and €225 in the pocket. Mr. Chairman. When you go on a birthday, you bring a present for the party pig. But, yeah, birthday's out at the moment. Then let's go on a campaign. Then Rutte also brings a present, which he doesn't have to give in the end. But, yeah, you gotta give them something to look forward to, they just feel better about it. That's why bread and games. We still have bread, thanks to our farmers who plow and plow. But we can't play outside anymore. Okay, let's bet the joker: load relief. Well, that's been a pacifier for years. Income tax is always messed up in the margins. And if you have a few euros left, they'll be quickly grabbed away by local governments. Don't forget the ever-increasing rents, health care, energy costs and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u249	I would like to ask Mr Faber the following question. She says we have bread thanks to the farmers. Does she have a picture of the amount of cereals grown for bread in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u250	I think most of the grain is from France.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u251	And Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u252	And Ukraine, it could.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u253	But I assume you were talking about Dutch farmers. Or did you mean the French or the Ukrainian farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u254	I thought Mr. Koffeman was a little more creative, because the pronunciation "bread and play" is just a general pronunciation. I am not talking so much about bread or grain, but simply about the general products that farmers grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u255	But the general products that farmers grow are largely intended for animal feed, with which we are the butcher and milkman of the world. We feed 110 million people outside our country and we keep all the junk of it here: the manure, the fine dust, the nitrogen. What does Mrs Faber think of that situation? Does she think that this situation should continue? Or should that change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u256	Look, Mr. Koffeman finds manure crap. I don't think manure is a mess at all. We just need that to make the Earth fertile. In Africa there is a huge shortage of manure. That's where they'd love to have our manure. That's point one. Point two. It's true, a lot of what we grow goes to cattle feed, and the butchers are very grateful for that. My family, too, I admit that. I come from a butcher's family and I like to eat a steak, like a lot of people I know. What is wrong with exporting meat or agricultural products? That is a very large proportion of our national income. With that national income we can finance those left-wing hobbies of the Chamber, but they are often ignored. In fact, we should be grateful to the farmers. They have to do it in spite of all the rules they're being imposed on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u257	Thank you, Mrs Faber. No, no, no, I now give the floor to Mr Koffeman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u258	Finally. Mrs Faber says that we farmers should be very grateful for the contribution to national income, but I must remind her that, for example, dairy farming is fully flourishing thanks to European subsidies. Now I know that Mrs Faber's party does not see very much in European subsidies, but in this case she should not see that separately. Social costs for livestock production...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u259	What's your question, Mr. Koffeman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u260	The social costs for the production of livestock and meat are greater than the yield, so I would ask Mrs Faber to deal with the argument that there is a significant contribution to national income from that sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u261	A short answer and then you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u262	As far as the European Union's subsidies are concerned, we are in favour of abolishing them, because then we will no longer have to bring so much money to Europe. In addition, our farmers are very innovative and can easily compete with farmers in France and Spain. It is also easy for fishing to do so. So it would be a blessing for us. Fine, I think we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u263	You will continue your speech, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u264	Not for nothing is a third of households struggling to make ends meet. Over 1.3 million households are struggling with payment problems and this is not the end of it. Incited by the corona crisis, this number is growing steadily. The pensioners, who are often unable to move, are completely screwed. They've been turning in for years, while there are hundreds of billions in the pension jars. If they're really at the end of their Latin, they can rot in a nursing home for the last few days. Mr. Chairman. After the Dutch tax screw has gone crazy, the chances are that in the future there will not only be blue letters from Apeldoorn on the mats, but also blue letters from Brussels. Rutte is about to squeeze us even further and squander the right of veto on European taxation. Smooth as this government is, written questions about this hot stuff are agilely avoided. You ask yourself: does it or doesn't it? Is the Prime Minister going through the pump? Specifically, is the Prime Minister going to give up this right of veto? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Households have not benefited from economic growth for decades. Why can't you ever get a thank-you off? Come up with a truly concrete gift for all Dutch people, from which everyone benefits. At least that's really inclusive. So not just a cheap round of applause. Think of a real VAT reduction. This works directly in the wallet and is good for domestic consumption. I'd say be nice. Forget about overseas. Forget that excuse that the tax system is not able to withstand a tariff reduction. That's bullshit. In the recent past, it has been shown that these systems, despite their squeaking and cracking, are very resistant to a tariff increase. Well, that's what I'm talking about. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. We are facing a deficit of more than 100 billion and an unemployment rate of up to 800,000 people. The whole of the Netherlands is delivering. But Minister Kaag of Development Assistance is not participating. The Dutch economy is shrinking, unemployment is rising, but this minister does not intend to comply with the agreements of the government agreement. You're not gonna turn in 500 million, are you? This year, she would rather voluntarily pump 484 million into the network of her boyfriends at the United Nations. How that can of money is spent? Uncheckable. What is known is that an agenda is being rolled out of anti-Semitism, terrorism and devolution. Why isn't there a line drawn by this voluntary madness? How high is this voluntary contribution budgeted for 2021? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. All this international gibberish and gibberish, we are living by increasingly international rules from international treaties, which undermine our Constitution. As a result, we are increasingly losing control of our lives. The borders are open to Hassan and alleman. Apparently, in times of corona entry, it's not a problem for them, but it's a problem for us to go out. As if not enough lucky seekers have found their way to the Netherlands, with the consequent misery, the IND and the COA managed to make a real commercial. That video was in English and subtitled in Arabic and in it the Netherlands was sold as the lazy country of the world. It was explained that you have a right to a doctor and a right to education and that you get a nice, large home for your whole family. But be careful: then you have to say the right things. But it'll whisper to you in the asylum industry. Kids porn on your phone won't be a problem. Torture on your phone is not a problem. Are you in an azc and itch your hands to harass, roar and rape gays? It's not a problem. A COA employee will send those lht'ers rapido back in the closet. Incidents are kept under wraps as much as possible. They are too politically sensitive. As a man of, say, 35 on your own initiative from Kabul or Aleppo, you arrive at the Greek camps: boy, with a bit of luck you are eligible for a children's pardon. Because that lame VVD is going to be overwhelmed after all. They're just being a little tough right before the election. If it takes you a little too long, you just burn the place down. It is no wonder that integration courses are already flopping in advance. These predominantly young men should take responsibility and put things in order at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u265	I want to see if I heard correctly that I heard Mrs Faber use the term 'depopulation'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u266	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u267	Is Mrs Faber aware that this is a term from national socialism?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u268	It could be. I don't know. I don't really care about that. Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u269	I am shocked if you use these terms, so perhaps you can use some awareness of the historical significance of these terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u270	I understand Mrs Bredenoord's reaction. I think it's intense, too. I'm not making it up myself. I have that name of your list-taker's boyfriends, Mrs Kaag. It's coming from the UN. They're talking about replacement migration. I was thinking, "What the hell is that?" If you translate that a little freely, I'm going to come up with "population." I can't make anything else out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u271	This is very creative use of language by Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u272	A creative mind isn't wrong, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u273	I distance myself from the use of words. Just on this day, when we commemorate 75 years of freedom, I think it would be good if we all thought of what words we use and what impact those words have. I also have a question for Mr Faber. She was just talking about a gay asylum seeker getting beat up and the consequences at the COA. I'm glad she stands up for people with different modes. I appreciate that. At the same time, their orientation or belief is also the reason why some people are fleeing. Mrs Faber's party says, "Next line." What does that mean for these people? What is your standing up for this man in the asylum-seekers' centre if you let him die in his own country as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u274	I'll be very brief. We stand by the view that we want to keep the borders close. We have 17.4 million people here. We don't know how many crises. We live from crisis to crisis. We're in enough trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u275	This means that the PVV's plea for a society with Jewish-Christian values does not represent a crack. For anyone who dies across the border: the border is closed and you are not looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u276	Mrs. Bikker is getting a little emotional about it. I understand that, of course. But Mrs Bikker forgets that her party simply facilitates an ideology like Islam. She's just gonna let that in. I can give you the following on a note. Mrs Bikker won't be able to go to her church in 10 or 20 years. She'll be able to sit underground. In Amsterdam we already have the shelter church Our' Dear Lord on Solder. You can sit down with that, if that church is still open, because it hasn't received a subsidy either, because that church isn't inclusive enough. So what I want to say is that the Christian parties are currently turning themselves into an ideology like Islam. I can give you the following on a note. This will not only be the end of Christianity, but also the end of Judaism and ultimately of the rest of the unbelievers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u277	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u278	I am glad that Mrs Faber senses some emotion in my voice, because there is indeed. That is because I believe that the core values of our rule of law are very important here. When we talk about the Christian-Jewish roots of our society, you could also believe in the story that they mean something. It's just like that when you're a society, you have something to say to each other. You shouldn't just burn down Muslims, flare them up, and say, "I don't want anything with that; I want to close mosques." I hope you will invest in those roots, because without roots there is nothing but emptiness. We'll see what language can follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u279	You will continue your speech, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u280	Tolerance will only work if it is a universal value. That is not the case in certain parts of the world. Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, we were led to believe that the Marrakesh Treaty would make it all easier to force countries of origin to take back the undisputed battles. I haven't heard successful stories about eviction. I have heard that the Secretary of State, Mrs Broekers-Knol, was not welcome at the Moroccan embassy. Of course, that ambassador does not want to take back that Moroccan polypist who has already been mentioned 579 times in police records. Apparently, he also wants less criminal Moroccans. He's not asking the question; he's just doing it. Have you deported that Moroccan polyp? And has the Secretary of State been received at the Moroccan Embassy? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, opportunistic politicians are stuffing our country even more fully with lucky seekers, as if we don't have enough already. But, yes, migration is elevated to a human right. Sly has shifted the focus from democracy to human rights. But it's not about human rights at all. That's just an instrument. It's about their power. It is not for nothing that they want to make the EU and Africa into a large common free trade area. With a pact with Africa, they get the majority of votes within the UN. This majority has already been used for international agreements, such as the terrible Paris Agreement on Climate Change. As a result, we now have to get rid of gas, we are stuck with heat pumps, windmills and sunbathing, and we are constantly burning down the forests. All this is at the expense of our prosperity, our freedom and our culture. Henk and Ingrid have long been abandoned by the salon-socialists. Their sons are humiliated, beaten and stabbed. Their daughters are withdrawn from the bushes and abused. Their old parents aren't safe in their own home anymore. They are being talked about narrow-mindedness and shame, because they want to stay on Witte de Withstraat and not on Barbarossa Street. They'd rather have a sugar animal than the Sugar Festival. Carnival becomes a costume party, Easter a spring party, Christmas a light party and not to mention St. Nicholas is a kind of survival; Black Piet can just be shot off. Proudly the word artist Akwasi hit on the Dam de moute on the second Pentecost day and brade: the moment I see a Black Piet in November, I kick him personally on his face. A vulgar call to violence! He was welcomed by lovely people in a lovely city. The mayor, liked with a slavery button and nominated for the best mayor in the world, indicated to enjoy the good atmosphere. You wonder, bewilderedly, what the rest of the world's mayors are like. Next, the state broadcaster made a nice report and did not mention the call for violence. The district attorney who worked with Mitchell Esajas, activist of Kick Out Black Piet, and who stood next to the rebellious Akusi, signed her non-prosecution. Yeah, you have friends at the D.A.'s office or you don't have any friends at the D.A.'s office. The Frisians who are doing the right thing for Black Piet, have meanwhile been persecuted for less. Oh, yes, the word artist also received a prize, the Power Award. According to the jury he is a hero and he has been the figurehead in the fight against inequality in the Netherlands. What a rotten clique. This Black Piet thing is a harbinger of what awaits us. Kick Out Zwarte Piet joined hardcore Marxists, Islamic parties and environmental activists to join the group Black Lives Matter. Kind of looking for kind, I'll say. For example, BLM made another pact with Nation of Islam, which is gaining ground in the Netherlands. Islam and the so-called anti-racists find each other in their common racism and hate against Western society, which they want to flar if their demands are not met. Wandads can just be condoned by the Koran, which calls for violence against Christians, Jews and other believers. Wandaden can be a result of fatwas. We all know the examples. My party leader, Geert Wilders, has been living in a strict lockdown for 16 years not to end up as the French history teacher Samuel Paty. Paty discussed freedom of speech from his teacher and showed Mohammedcartoons and was then brutally slaughtered. Both Paty and Wilders have a fatwa on their pants. George Orwell already indicated: the further a society drifts away from the truth, the more she will hate the one she speaks. I would like to comment briefly on the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry into the causes of discrimination in the Netherlands. Well, chairman, the PVV doesn't need an investigation. Whoever discriminates the most is sitting at the government table. It's Mr. Rutte. It gives billions for the healthcare pay in France, but not for the Dutch people. For asylum seekers no own risk, no care premium, no own contribution. For the Dutch, yes. Then we're talking about free physiotherapy, rollators, and so on. All for the asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u281	I actually intended not to interrupt, but I just heard so many things being thrown into one pile that I'm doing it anyway. I would like to ask Mrs Faber whether she really feels that someone in this Chamber or in this country would approve of what happened to Samuel Paty. It's all being thrown at one pile, everything the government does. The climate is still friendly, but the people around it... What do you mean when you're talking about a huge list of things that are all put on top of each other? Do you mean, for example, that they would be supported by this Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u282	This parliament and this government are allowing more and more Islam to enter our country and Islam is connected to the Qur'an, for without the Qur'an there is no Islam. Within Islam there are fatwas. Like I said, my party leader Geert Wilders, like Paty, has a fatwa on his pants, and we've seen what happened to Paty. It's just horribly decapitated on the street because of an opinion. Of course, I hope there are people in the Netherlands who do not like it. But yes, it remained very quiet on Dam Square, while at the moment something happens in America with Black Lives Matter walking out of the country. But if there's just... Yes, I have nothing with the European Union at all, but these people here in the Chamber do. Now someone from a country in the European Union, someone from France, a professional with a very high status, is being decapitated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u283	Thank you, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u284	It's because of the entry of Islam, and you don't hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u285	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u286	I think everyone with horror has seen that macabre decapitation. I think there is no one in this Parliament and in this Chamber who does not find it horrible that Mr Geert Wilders has not been able to walk the streets for 16 years, so to speak. But would Mrs Faber also like to try to see that there are forces in this society, also used by the cabinet, to counter this sort of thing? Or do you really just see that this cabinet would support this or something? I really do not believe that you look at our society and our politics that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u287	Given the time available, may I ask for a short answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u288	Yes, Mr President, but I would like to be able to respond in a normal way to the colleague, because I must, of course, do justice to his question. Otherwise, it's not neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u289	Normal, but short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u290	Of course, I assume that the Prime Minister is not to be applauded for such a decapitation. I believe that. I also think he'll disapprove of it. Well, at least that's what I'm assuming. He did react a little late on social media. Anyway, anyway, let's give him that advantage. Of course, the only way to get rid of these kinds of problems is to get rid of this Islam here in the Netherlands. Then you just have to close those mosques. That's a source where people get riled up. As long as we do not do that and continue to take these half-hearted measures, we are simply not going to solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u291	Mr. Schalk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u292	Finally, just one comment instead of one more question. Perhaps Mrs Faber could re-examine the Act of Abandonment. It tells us how we should deal with this problem. In 1581, a while ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u293	Then I suggest that Mr Van der Schalk read the Koran once. The Sharia I have at home. You'll be able to borrow it from me in no time. No problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u294	The name is Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u295	Schalk. Excuse me. I'm sorry about that. I'm just talking about a job interview. Often women are preferred and, because of the diversity policy, immigrants are preferred. In the police department, they're so desperate they drop part of the screening. In Rotterdam, for example, the candidate Youssef S., who had criminal backgrounds for violence and theft, could be hired and his sister also came back from IS area. Mr. Chairman. In 2019, 123 cases of discrimination were notified to the Public Prosecutor. This remark is specifically intended for Mrs Jorritsma. Of a population of 17.4 million, that is very little. Of course, 123 cases are too many, but at least it is much lower than those 17,000 incidents in the azc's in 2019 and those 5,000 crimes that asylum seekers are suspected of. Then I'm talking about theft, intimidation, assaults, and so on. Besides having Rutte here, we also have an Islamic elephant in the Chamber that hardly anyone dares talk about. It is Islam that discriminates against entire groups: Muslims against non-Muslims, men against women, gays against straight people. Anyone who protects Islam facilitates discrimination. Just let it get to you. Mr. Chairman. The VVD continues to turn left. First the VVD Minister Bruno Bruins was replaced by the PvdA'er Martin van Rijn. If you vote for the VVD, you get the PvdA. GroenLinks is not in the government, but the government is rolling out the Green Left climate madness. The resistance to the children's pardon has been flushed down the well and now Mrs Jorritsma is working with Rosenmöller to investigate the causes of discrimination in the Netherlands. They've gone crazy on the VVD! But I am glad that she is coming up with it now, because then the voters know that and then they can take into account that a vote on the VVD is not only a vote on the PvdA, but also on GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In almost ten years, Rutte's prison of misery has led us from crisis to crisis. Nitrogen, pfas, climate, housing shortage, migration and all these crises originate in international organisations such as the EU and the UN. We must return to a free Netherlands, without masks and headscarves. We have to go back to our own money, across our borders, over our culture. The March elections are blazing on the horizon and they give hope. A new round with new opportunities for a free Netherlands, because the Netherlands is ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u296	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr. Otten, unfortunately there's time for a very brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u297	I do not go into what Mrs Faber has just said, but I was triggered by the statement: a vote on the VVD is a vote on GroenLinks. That was exactly what I argued last year during the General Reviews about the ritual mating dance between Mr Rosenmöller and Mr Rutte. You only forgot to copy my text by saying that they together also form seven provinces. So I thought I'd give you a compliment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u298	What is your question to Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u299	Well, I wanted to compliment Mrs Faber for reading my speech well last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u300	Mr President, may I comment on this for a moment? Then that's settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u301	Let's give Mr. Rosenmöller the floor first, because I have to finish now, otherwise we'll continue after lunch. Then you can answer in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u302	To be honest, I've been listening to your story with increasing amazement and heartbeat. I want to say that, because it is about exclusion, because it is about dense borders and because it has nothing to do with any of the values that lie under our rule of law. You have accused the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of discrimination. You're assuming he's not gonna cheer on a horrible murder like he did ten days ago. That is not just a question of using words. I think it's a suggestion that is incredibly unacceptable. My point is that your contribution is interspersed with all kinds of values that the greatest majority here does not share and that have nothing to do with freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u303	I agree with that as chairman. You have really hurt a number of members here. This was clear from the reactions of Mrs Bredenoord and Mrs Bikker, among others. I know you as someone who is very capable of making your point without hurting anyone else. I would therefore kindly ask you not to use such instruments in future contributions as is customary here. There's no need. You don't need that either. You're too good for that, and it's also undesirable. I give you the opportunity for a brief response, because we have to go to lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u304	You say a lot of things to me. Then you can say that I may give a brief response, but I do not think that is fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u305	No, I asked you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u306	We like a level playing field in this house, don't we? Anyway, I'll go into Mr. Otten first. He thinks I need his speech to make a good argument here. Well, forget it. I think I told you two or three years ago that Mr. Clover of GroenLinks was on his lap with Mr. Rutte. So I think you've read my speech before I have your speech. That's the first thing. Then I'll come to point two. That's about Mr. Rosenmöller. Yeah, he thinks it's all inappropriate, and so does the president. It's okay. Of course, it's okay for anyone to feel that way. I believe that Mr Rosenmöller also finds it unacceptable. We find it unacceptable that we are being extradited here to Islam. The position of women within Islam is a hundred times worse than that bullshit proposal about that discrimination with those 123 reports to the D.A.'s office. In the Netherlands, half of the population are women. So you're talking about 8 million people who are discriminated against, but nobody's talking about that, because that's okay! They're all Islam cuddlers here in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u307	But now you're falling into repeats. Now comes Mrs. Fox. The last thing I'm gonna do is give him the floor, because we really need to go to lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u308	What country does Mrs Faber actually live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u309	Excuse me, I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u310	What country do you live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u311	I think I'm still living in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u312	We live in the Netherlands. We have a rule of law. You can believe whatever you want here. For my taste and for everyone's taste in this room and outside this room there is no Sharia and we have values here that are all diametrically based on what your vision is. Perhaps you should stop reading the Koran and just read the Constitution and the Pasta of Abandonment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u313	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u314	I would recommend reading the Qur'an. You shouldn't stop doing that, because you always have to know who you're seeing. But, yes, they don't dare to do that here, because then they're far too afraid to face them. I'd read the sharia sometime. Very interesting, especially all those pieces about keeping slaves and stuff. Maybe that's an eye-opener, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-27-eerstekamer-3.u315	Thank you. Then I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for lunch until 1.30 p.m.
