ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u1	At present the issue is the treatment of the bill 34985, Amendment of the Environment Act and some other laws related to the transition from the Nature Protection Act to the Environment Act, the Supplementary Act Nature Environment Act, and the letter of the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality d.d. 6 September 2019 to offer the draft Nature Supplementary Act (34985, letter B). I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u3	Good morning, ministers, colleagues, President. We're talking about nature today, but it's not just about nature. Hikers, birdwatchers and mountain bikers look up nature and the landscape for relaxation, recreation and their hobby. Forest rangers, farmers and naturalists get their income from the raw materials and the processes that nature provides us. Entrepreneurship Netherlands, Building the Netherlands, depends on the quality of our nature in order to obtain permits to run a vital business. The supplement law and the decision nature therefore go beyond nature. They are about rules that significantly affect the lives of a lot of people in the Netherlands. Fortunately, the realization that nature quality brings more than just nature itself is getting wider. This also increases the support for a resilient nature in the Netherlands. As GroenLinks, we are very pleased with that. Not only the nature movement advocates a robust quality, but also parties such as VNO-NCW and Building The Netherlands have joined and meanwhile the Minister is following the fire to make progress on this dossier. Let me begin by saying that I can see that the Minister is working very hard and that she is taking steps. She's also trying to connect tasks. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has asked for this before. We see that efforts are being made and we welcome that. It's not an easy file. I personally have a great deal of respect for the Minister of Agriculture. Despite corona and despite all processes, tough work is being done to improve the quality of nature. However, the Minister will not be surprised that we still have some questions and comments. This law and this decision will greatly determine the playing field on which all those people I just mentioned can pursue their interests. The nature supplement law is an important law, which touches on the foundations of our rule of law. The Minister himself indicated that Article 21 of the Constitution should be implemented here: the government is responsible for the habitability of the country and for the protection and improvement of the environment. It is also well known that we need to do better in the area of nature quality. A third of the species in the Netherlands have already been seriously threatened. Since 2017, the number of redlisted species has increased again. In particular, the increase in the use of pesticides, nitrogen resources in the soil, the drought of recent years and the climate change that is on our heels mean that there is little cause for optimism and there is more work to be done. In this process, we focus on three issues: legislative quality, feasibility and evaluation. As members of the First Chamber, we must look at the quality of legislation and its consistency. These include aspects such as legality, feasibility and effectiveness. I must confess that my group has doubts about various aspects of the proposals. This is not so much in the quality of the transposition of the Nature Protection Act into the Nature Supplementary Act, but above all in the fact that with the knowledge of today we can only conclude that what we are discussing today is not enough to achieve the important purpose of this law and that is to protect the vulnerable nature. We are not alone in this criticism. The Minister himself has already noted this. It has therefore announced that it will come up with a new law, the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement Act. In the meantime, it will suspend certain provisions. We believe that the coherence between these legislative products and the legislative products announced is so obvious that they should actually be considered in conjunction. We are therefore wondering why the Minister did not choose to offer these matters jointly to our house. The new nitrogen approach is crucial for achieving the natural quality targets. The minister gave the reason for the integration into the digital system. We still have questions about that. Firstly, we postponed the Environment Act for a year. Secondly, we have already discussed with the Minister for Housing and the Environment that concept-AMvBs can also get a place in the DSO. Then why can't we do that in this case? In fact, you might even say that the government itself chooses that route with the withdrawal of certain provisions. Certain provisions do get a place in the DSO, while we know that they do not enter into force. We would therefore like a substantive response from the Minister to the question as to why the government did not choose to present to us on this sensitive dossier a complete and complete legislative product on nitrogen and nature. As a result, the following. The extra nitrogen approach of the cabinet is also unlikely to achieve the objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directives. In its final report, the Remkes Committee therefore proposes binding standards with 2040 as the horizon for the implementation of these measures and with a hard intermediate target in 2030. These concrete issues are missing from the present proposal. Thus 2050 seems to be out of the picture as the deadline for achieving the bird and habitat targets. Can the Minister state how she views this in the light of the proposals before us? In particular, we are curious to see how the Minister views the position of Greenpeace, among other things, that the EU principle of loyal cooperation, Article 4 (3) of the Treaty on European Union, states that the favourable conservation status of the Birds and Habitats Directives must be achieved as soon as reasonably possible. How does this relate to the pace of the proposals before us? I would like a response to this statement and to this question. I also refer to the contribution of D66 later today, which will be asked about conservation objectives. Finally, under the heading of effectiveness and efficiency. One of the questions we are dealing with is whether the objectives set can be achieved by the means indicated. Here too, the answer is no. I've already said something about it. The Minister also says this because she comes up with an extra approach. One of the main reasons why nature is under pressure in the Netherlands is nitrogen, and this is precisely where this legislation falls short. In doing so, these proposals do not seem to be effective and ineffective. They seem to be here prematurely. I'd like a response from the Minister. Does she share this analysis? How does she intend to proceed with this? Then there's the feasibility. We are concerned about a threat of watering down the nature theme in the environmental visions. First of all, I would like to mention the formal requirements for nature vision, which have been replaced by self-binding and non-formative rules for environmental vision. In the report Self-contained nature policy under the Nature Protection Act, several provinces show a strong dilution of the nature theme when the nature vision is actually transformed into an environmental vision. We would like to hear a response from the Minister to this report. How does the Minister intend to react to this practice? This information is linked to previous information from, for example, the commission for the m.e.r. about the lack of use of the EIA in developing environmental visions or reading the Arcadis report on the missing information on nature and environmental qualities in the EIAs submitted to the EIA committee, then a bit of the picture emerges that important guiding information at the decentralised level is literally out of the picture. This is now well and in detail regulated in the Nature Protection Act. Our question to the Minister is therefore: is she prepared, given all these signals, to convert content requirements for nature vision into the nature supplement law? I would like an answer to this question. Then the Netherlands Nature Network. The national conservation objective has not been directly translated into national environmental values in the proposal for the Nature Supplementary Act. This raises the question of how the Minister intends to prevent citizens, builders, farmers and nature organisations in the new system from having to deal with several provincial nature visions and environmental plans that are independent of each other and develop ideas and strategies that are not aligned. This makes it unclear for citizens what they need to comply with. Practice already warns loudly that it will be difficult to keep a picture of cross-border goals and, in particular, those national targets. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that with regard to the Dutch Nature Network, it is now not clear who is on the move, what is expected of the parties and what goals they should strive for and that therefore the target range, a nationwide beneficial state of conservation, becomes very elusive and perhaps even unattainable. Is the government prepared, from its role as system manager, to do even more about this by creating the necessary clarity, for example on definitions? Furthermore, we join D66 here. Is the Minister also prepared to monitor the coherence of that national nature network at national level and to inform the Chamber annually? We are concerned about whether it is going well and fast enough and whether the quality remains in order. We'd like to keep a finger on the wrist. I'd like a response. Then the point of nature information in the digital system. What information is and what is not in the digital system has already been exchanged in the question rounds of the various laws, but it is still not clear enough for us. Without adequate, detailed information about the Netherlands Nature Network and the nature reserves and natural values in the DSO, it will prove very difficult in practice to protect nature. I therefore asked the introduction law what exactly the agreements between IPO, VNG and the Empire regarding the inclusion of this nature information look like. Can the Minister comment on the current state of the talks between the Empire and the local authorities? Will it undertake that the information on the limitation of the Netherlands Nature Network and the changes to it and information on species, on habitats, has finally been given a good place in the development of the DSO? Can it indicate whether the financing of this specific development has been arranged? If so, how is that settled? Finally, can it promise that this information will actually be available to citizens and businesses in the Netherlands on 1 January 2022, the day on which it all starts? In addition, we are curious about the processing and display of permits, notifications and enforcement requests in the DSO. It is particularly important for monitoring the quality of nature that citizens, local residents and businesses in the vicinity of these natural areas are able to follow what is going on. We have repeatedly expressed our concerns about this in both Chambers. A motion has been tabled in the Lower House (33118, no. 133), which calls on the government to implement permits, notifications and enforcement requests as soon as possible. The Minister said: "There are complex privacy aspects that have also been discussed in the Upper House. So that's not in the basic package. This is discussed in the development process." That "spoken" raises questions for us. Talking about things is, of course, very nice, but it's about realizing things. Now I have previously received a commitment from the Minister for the Environment and Living to inform the First Chamber when these specific privacy aspects turn out to be significant. Hence the question: when will we actually be informed about these difficult privacy aspects? Does the Minister consider that these aspects are soluble with the development for 2022? Will the Minister undertake that the Environment Act will not enter into force before citizens, businesses and third parties in the DSO can see what authorisations have been applied for and what notifications and enforcement requests have been made? If not, can it indicate how the interests of society have been served? Then there is the independent review of nature information. A question from this Chamber is also open. This concerns the possibility for citizens to have information provided by governments independently tested. Sometimes a government has an interest of its own. Then it is nice that you can go to a party to find out if the information provided is correct. Think about whether or not there are bats. Can we get that tested somewhere? I'd like a response. Then cut the point of trees in the outskirts. With regard to the intended division of roles between provinces and municipalities when it comes to the roofing of trees or wood stands, as it is called, in the outer area, there is still a lot of noise on the line. I have recently spoken with representatives of IPO and VNG and I can see that they are not quite in line with the explanation. Can the Minister state what progress has been made with the forthcoming consultations on this matter? Where are we? Is there a text on which there is agreement which sets out the distribution of competences to everyone's satisfaction? In the perspective of GroenLinks, the municipality is the best government layer for assessing the timber uprisings in the outlying area, precisely because these small uprisings are not of nature's interest; they are common tree rows; they can have a great significance locally in the context of recreation, air quality and because municipalities seem to be better equipped to carry out and, in particular, maintain at that level of detail. If there is a replanting obligation, there is also maintenance. We remind the Minister that it has already gone wrong once before when the Forest Authority was abolished. At that time, there was a fairly large balding in the outside area, because there was no one who actually picked up the implementation and enforcement. We ask the Minister whether she agrees with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that local authorities in an outlying area are fully competent in the clearing of timber stands. Is it prepared to table with the local authorities and ensure that before 1 January 2021, i.e. one year before entry into force, there is a new text or clarification of the text that can be included in the DSO? Finally, we come to the evaluation of the law. I'm glad both ministers are here. There seems to have been some confusion here. The current Nature Protection Act is actually only just on steam when it is replaced by the Nature Supplementary Act. In replying to the questions, the Minister states that the government will only evaluate the Nature Protection Act and the Nature Supplementary Act five years after the start of the Environment Act. In practice, this would amount to the year 2027. That is more than ten years after the introduction of the Nature Protection Act. We don't think that's what we're supposed to do. It's a very sensitive file. We really need to be on top of this in order to avoid a third nitrogen crisis in one, two or three years' time. We ask the Minister if she is prepared to do an analysis by 2020/2021 of the learning points emerging from the Nature Protection Act. In addition, we ask the Minister if she is aware of the commitment of the Minister for the Environment and Housing to Mr Rietkerk, Mrs Moonen, myself and a number of other colleagues in this Chamber that there will be an independent evaluation committee which reports annually on the Environment Act in full width, at least for the first five years. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is of the opinion that it is also de facto stipulated that the Nature Protection Act, which runs into the Nature Supplementary Act, will receive its first evaluation by reporting to the independent evaluation committee no more than one year after its introduction. Can the Minister indicate whether we see this correctly and that the evaluation of the Supplementary Nature Act is therefore being evaluated a year after the Environment Act has been introduced? We think it is very important that we learn quickly from the previous legislation so that all animals and plants, as well as farmers, builders, recreators and nature conservationists, all of whom depend on the quality and effect of this law, do not dangle unnecessarily when it turns out that the law does not work as foreseen and needs to be adjusted. They deserve to be carefully and in a structured manner and not by incidents. This was our input. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u4	A question to Mrs Kluit. Does the GroenLinks Group believe that the Nature Protection Act is politically neutrally translated into the Nature Supplementary Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u5	If you look at it in the exact context, it's not. If you look at it in the elegant context, it's pretty neat. It's in the design of the entire system of the Environment Act. Certain things that we now apply in the Nature Protection Act and which are laid down at law level are changing. But that has to do with the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u6	The question is, however, because we, as a committee, as parliamentary groups, have been given the information on this part of the cabinet, in which policy neutrality has been shown in any case, regardless of the systematic question. Then do you agree with that overview or not, and what part of it do you disagree with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u7	This was one of many, many pieces, so I can immediately admit not to quote from my mind. But you will not be surprised that we do not always draw the same conclusions in this kind of analysis as the cabinet. So we're looking at something else. I also said at the beginning of my speech: if you look at the whole system and all the laws in it, then this is not the worst law in terms of transposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u8	Finally, Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u9	I understand. Then we should not continue the debate now, but if you look at it with ease, it is policy-neutral, but there are still a few problems from GroenLinks perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u10	You know me, I'm pretty close to these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nature in the Netherlands has been declining for decades. Think of the alarming decline in biodiversity. That is unacceptable and it is up to the government to reverse that tide. To this end, the public authorities must have appropriate instruments. The central question, also with the PvdA Group in this debate, is whether the introduction law and the introduction decision nature Environment Act that strengthens or weakens instruments. We have concerns about this. It is becoming increasingly clear that the restoration of our nature throughout the Netherlands cannot be achieved without central security. The Remkes final report only reinforces this concern. I would like to thank the Ministers and their officials for answering the many questions put by the Chamber. The answers to the second round of written questions from this House have caused some confusion to my group. Because both the CDA Group and the joint groups of GroenLinks, the Party for Animals, 50PLUS and the PvdA were reassured in answering their critical questions. The prospects were only diametrically opposed. Then you're thinking, where is it wrong? Where the CDA advocated room for local self-determination, my group was concerned, among other things, that this local customization in some regions will lead to decisions where nature is at the shortest end, or which do not fit in with a necessary, regionally transcendent approach. How does the Minister intend to reconcile these perspectives? One more point in advance. During the General Political Reviews last autumn, the Prime Minister said to my questions about much-needed nitrogen measures that, as far as he is concerned, we could also look at reducing the number of Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands. This seems to be in flagrant conflict with the ambition of this cabinet to strengthen nature and biodiversity. Can the Minister clarify the cabinet's position on this matter? Are Natura 2000 sites only of Europe, or is the cabinet in front of this nature, and do we take responsibility for this without pointing to Europe? The current Nature Protection Act, and its accompanying decision of course, is still young, clear and contains material standards for nature protection. The law that should replace this, the introduction law nature, has virtually no material standards. It's in several underlying AMvBs. The law itself creates instruments, powers and procedures. This is consistent, because in line with the rest of the Environment Act. But is it also a simplification? My group doubts that. The Minister pointed out the digital disclosure of the relevant information through the Digital System Environment Act, including in the field of nature protection. But this is independent of the simplicity or complexity of the legislation. Can the Minister explain again in what way this supplemental track is an improvement on that current Nature Protection Act? The purpose of the law is reduced to the Nature Protection Act and not extended to protect the intrinsic value of nature. This goal is then one of the goals to be considered in full through the mixing panel, the Decision quality living environment. The advantage of this system is that natural interests are directly and integrally taken into account in the overall balance of interests. Nor is it the case that the different interests are always conflicting or that nature interests are untouchable. For example, housing and nature development can also be combined in a specific case. My group's concern on this part is whether nature's interests in the overall balance will be undermined too quickly. On May 3, we could have enjoyed a Formula 1 race in the middle of a nature reserve. Can the Minister outline what forms of legal protection are open if it is suspected that the balance of interests between nature interests is not sufficiently taken into account? What justification requirements must be met by a decision to understand how nature interests have been taken into account? European regulations............................................................................................................................................................................................. This is also the reason why, unlike other parts of the environmental law, this remains "no, unless," the Minister answers us in writing. It must not be Europe unless it is not Europe's concern or gives its own space. Is this reasoning correct? Can the Minister once again outline the size of the decision-making area outside those guidelines? And do I understand that the 'yes' principle still applies to the remaining non-European area? Or are there other elements of nature protection that the government considers necessary for national protection? Decisions within the "European area" are therefore logically subject to prior authorisation. To be sure, once again, how does this relate to the obligation to notify? The advisory committee on nitrogen reduction and nature protection, in the popular sense the Remkes Committee, recommends that the standards be laid down by law, as well as the control of this. The Minister replied in her letter to this Chamber of 19 June that the legislative proposal on nitrogen reduction and improvement of nature introduced a definitive regime for the structural approach to nitrogen problems. Against this background, part of the law and decision before us today will not enter into force. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group initially had great difficulty with this procedural proposal. 'Cause what exactly would be there for scrutiny today, but in her or their letter... I have focused my text on one minister, but I assume that the rulers themselves will decide how they will respond. I am just saying that in her letter of 26 June last Friday, the Minister, fortunately, states exactly which articles will not enter into force, with the undertaking that the replacement implementation of that non-entering legislation and AMvB will be submitted to both chambers for assessment. In any case, that makes it verifiable and thus the main criticism of my group on this procedural issue has been removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u13	Does Mr Recourt believe that it would have been good if we had not only known which articles were not in force, but also what the new version would have been like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u14	Yeah, that would've been the best part. We would have had a complete picture today. Nitrogen is what I agree with Mrs Kluit entirely, and this is an important part of nature conservation. But the other side is that a bad part of the law is now being taken out of the law and that there is a commitment there and that most likely, reading the Remkes Committee and the reaction of the Cabinet, a better part will come back to it with the guarantee that we can also judge it. That is acceptable to my group. It's not ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u15	If the nitrogen reduction and environmental improvement Act does not enter into force for any reason, a second corona wave, elections, we may adopt today or next week a law in which the PAS and the Emergency Act approach to nitrogen will continue to work longer. Do you have the impression that the nitrogen crisis will last unnecessarily long?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u16	If that were the case, yes. Evident. That is, of course, a process that runs independently of this law, namely the struggle of this cabinet to properly implement the ruling of the judge and the judge says.. I want to avoid discussions about the role of the judge... only quite rightly that the Netherlands is obliged to regulate that nitrogen in a good way. That is far from the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u17	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u18	Mr. Chairman. What exactly do these procedural proposals mean in material terms? I will also explain my question on the basis of the final report by the Remkes Committee. It recommends that the management of nature conservation and thus also the reduction of nitrogen in the province be made in line with the current legislative proposal. I quote the report: "It is up to the provinces to present the task per Natura 2000 site, to concrete what is needed to achieve the objectives, and what contribution can be made to this through a site-specific approach." It is known that the college of the province... I need to take a closer look, Mr. Chairman, because I don't understand my own point anymore. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u19	Take it easy. The clock's gonna run.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u20	Of course, but I'm glad I've registered well, Mr. Chairman. Now I get the sentence; he's a little cryptic. It is known that the College of the Province with the greatest challenge in terms of nitrogen reduction is highly critical of active and forced reduction in the size of livestock. And let me mention the province right away, because then it becomes clear to everyone. I'm worried about the province of Brabant. The Remkes Committee anticipates the danger of opposing provinces and writes: "The national reduction is translated by the Empire into the task per province. It should be laid down by law that, within their responsibilities, provinces are required to implement the National Nature Goals Programme, within the framework set out in that programme. The Minister should be empowered, if implementation is not carried out within the specified frameworks, to provide guidance to the province concerned, in addition to the possibility of tightening up the frameworks." Mr. Chairman. Will the Minister fully accept this part of the opinion? Does the foregoing mean that the introduction of the KB for the entire environmental law will not be submitted to Parliament until the draft Nature Supplementary Act has been amended or repealed on this part? If not, how can we now assess whether the protection of nature in each province is sufficiently guaranteed? Mr. Chairman. My group takes the answer to these questions seriously into account in the final weighing. It is difficult to judge a law as a fundamental element, namely a clear and trust-building division of roles between central and local authorities is not properly secured. Don't get me wrong, I don't want to get rid of the principle that provinces know the best part of their province to intervene in. I and my group are concerned with setting standards, checking them and adjusting them. I'm moving on to another subject. The House of Representatives has rejected the amendment of D66 and the Christian Union, which aims to include the same guarantee for international and European objectives for nature in the Environmental Act as for example for water and air quality. It has been chosen to anchor the favourable conservation status of species and habitat types as environmental values. The Minister is not in favour of this solution because the state of conservation is difficult to quantify, as we have read. My group feels differently about this for the time being. Quantification seems possible through the elements distribution area, population size, quality habitat and future perspective. It is a missed opportunity for nature to be taken as an environmental value if not an environmental value. Can the Minister explain to my group once again how the obligation to maintain a favourable conservation status is respected from the beginning of the decision-making process and how legal protection can be sought at the end of this process? In the meantime, are there any new circumstances that will make the Minister look positively at the policy set out in the amendment, for example the circumstances that lie in the final report of the Remkes Committee? Finally, Mr President. Some view nature in the Netherlands as a luxury. Nice to walk in, but if that's what the economy's asking, you can walk somewhere else. This ignores the fact that we may be dependent on a vital and diverse nature in the Netherlands. It's a fragile system, where you can't just remove elements without putting the whole system, including the human being, at risk. The corona pandemic has once again reminded us of this painful fact. That's what's important for us to protect. The question is whether this is adequately secured by the law before us today. I am very curious to hear the answers from the ministers. They weigh heavily, once again, in the balance that the Labour Party is going to make after the end of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Mrs Moonen has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Rio de Janeiro Convention entered into force at the end of 1993. There were 195 countries that signed this convention. We even know the International Day of Biodiversity. But the question is: is there so much to celebrate in the world when it comes to this issue? Let me confine myself to the Netherlands. In our country too, 40% of the species on the red list of animals are currently under serious threat. Even if we compare the farmland of 1900 with today's, we have lost 85% of our bird species. For me, that's not just a statistical number. I come from the farmland, as a daughter from the farm. If you lived in the countryside and you're from there, Minister Schouten, you couldn't go so much as a girl. You couldn't get to the football club at the time, you couldn't get to the scouting. As a 15-year-old girl from the farmland, I founded the General Christian Youth Association for Nature Studies and Nature Conservation in the municipality of Weert, because I loved those birds on that farmland. So for me, this decline is not only a number, but a real experience and also a realization that we are actually not doing very well, not even in our own country, when it comes to biodiversity. Today we are talking about the Supplementary Nature Act and the Supplementary Nature Act, and from that ambition to look at the quality of nature, we also bring in our notions today. The explanatory memorandum to the Nature Supplementary Act says: "All standards and instruments are maintained unchanged and policy neutrally in the Environmental Act. The level of protection shall not be affected." The Council of State sees that differently. It says, in the law and also in the explanatory memorandum to that law: it is not at all clear how these national and international conservation objectives work, for example, towards municipal environmental plans. And actually, these Union-law rules of Natura 2000 sites should be very clear on how they work in an integral balance. In fact, the Council of State says that strict, binding European legal frameworks cannot be part of an integral consideration, because you have to protect them anyway. Researchers at the Wageningen University I consider high; I myself have been allowed to study at Wageningen University. Ex-colleagues of mine have made a report Nature and landscape in the Environment Act. They say that there is a policy weakening when we look at Nature Network Netherlands. When we look at the advice of the Council of State and of experts from Wageningen University, we see that they actually indicate that this Nature Protection Act will not be transposed politically neutrally into the Environment Act. I would like to help the Minister today by making the law truly politically neutral. I believe that this is perfectly possible by making a number of commitments in the debate today. These commitments are essential for the D66 Group. I would like to focus on three topics: ensuring a good conservation status, how to deal with the Dutch Nature Network and how to deal with nature compensation. So it's all pretty clear. First of all, the good state of conservation. I have already indicated that, on the basis of the current Nature Protection Act and also on the basis of underlying treaties and EU directives, we should include the favourable conservation status as a result obligation. The Empire is ultimately responsible for this. The national nature vision should pay particular attention to the preservation and, if necessary, restoration of that favourable conservation status. Now the Nature Protection Act does not know the term "environmental value," but the Nature Protection Act did not know it either for water and air. Under the Environmental Law, many international and European environmental standards are now legally established as environmental values. We do that for air, we do that for water quality and we do that for water safety, which in itself is very good. But this is still not happening for nature in the current proposal. In view of the international obligation and our own ambitions towards nature, it is extremely logical and sensible to include that favourable conservation status in the law. That could be very good, too. A great deal of research has been done in the Netherlands on the favourable state of conservation at species level. We all know the Vogelatlas. Who doesn't have him on his bedside table? We also all know flora and mappings of plants and animal species, also in the field of mammals. So we know very well per kilometer what kind of plants and animals live in this country. So it is quite possible to include that favourable state of conservation as a concrete standard, as we do with air and water. We can objectively visualize that, based on ecological knowledge. Therefore, anchoring the achievement of the favourable state of conservation of species and habitat types as an environmental value is so obvious. You create clarity about exactly what the obligation to achieve that favourable state of conservation entails. Nature will also have the same status as other non-European protected environmental standards, such as air and water standards. So it's also a consistent line for how we deal with air and water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u23	Mr Recourt. Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u24	Oh, yeah. It sounds like music to me what Mrs Moonen says; I have also argued for it myself. I like to support it, but I've been struggling a little bit with the question: how should that be practical? Do I hear you say, "We want a novelle"? Is that what your group is asking for, or do you have another solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u25	I think another solution is possible, Mr Recourt. I'm about to explain how we can insert that into the law. I am also pleased to hear that the PvdA supports this point in substance. I had also heard it in your speech. Thank you for that. Minister Ollongren said in July 2019 in the House of Representatives about the favourable state of conservation: it is best to settle this in the Nature Supplementary Decision. Exactly that decision is ahead of us today. Can the Minister undertake to include the favourable conservation status as a result obligation in the Environmental Act? This commitment is crucial for D66 to be able to agree to the Nature Supplementary Act. In the debate in June 2019 in the Lower House, Minister Ollongren also indicated that nature could be included as an environmental value in the Environmental Law, just like air and water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u26	Can Mrs Moonen explain what the obligation to achieve results in a law, in her view, means? I have no questions about the targets, about the conservation targets. These are described, also in policy papers. That will also have to be done in the NOVI as far as we are concerned. But what do you mean by laying down the result obligation in a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u27	I want to draw a line, as we do with air and with water. There we have very clear commitments to achieve results. You really indicate that you want to maintain at least your current level. You may also have more ambitions and then you can include them as a result obligation. I want competent authorities to be given the opportunity to do so, so that there is a legal basis for this in the law. It's not here for nature right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u28	The targets set out in national notes, in national policies, for Natura 2000 are national targets. Do you want the goals translated into the legislation? Then I can follow you again, because we want to achieve those goals. Is that your explanation or not? I'm interested in the purpose or the means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u29	It is the objective in any case, but the objective is wider than the Natura 2000 sites. We also have targets outside Natura 2000 sites. The important thing is that you actually set the result obligations at goal level. The Minister has agreed to record the environmental values. Can she tell us how we're going to do that for nature, as well as for water and air? This is also in line with Mr Recourt's speech. In what way is the Minister going to include environmental values for nature in the Environment Act? Let me now turn briefly to the Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems, the Remkes Committee, because it has a relationship with the quality of nature. The Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems in the report Alles can't everywhere that it is good to lay down the objectives for nitrogen reduction legally and binding as a result obligation in the Nature Protection Act. The government responded to Remkes' opinion on 17 June. On the legal guarantee, the cabinet states that it intends to commit itself to a legal anchoring and commits that it will include the government target for reducing the nitrogen load of Natura 2000 sites as a result obligation in the Nitrogen Reduction and Natural Improvement Bill. I would like to congratulate the government on the fact that it is now going to turn the somewhat non-binding targets into real legal obligations to achieve results. For D66 that was an important commitment, also in the course of this debate. So thank you for that, Minister. Can the Minister indicate how this legal anchoring is incorporated into the legislation and what the timetable is? Remkes also writes that it is good to send an updated nature objectives programme to Parliament every two years, on the basis of the progress monitor, to ensure that the objectives are met. This monitor will cover both the national programme and the area-specific approach of the provinces. Can the Minister promise that this opinion of the Remkes Commission on the monitoring of progress will also be taken on board? Finally, the Committee writes that it is good to also lay down legally that provinces are required within their responsibilities to implement the national objectives programme. Can the Minister promise that this legal guarantee will also be provided? Mr. Chairman. Let me now move on to my second point, namely the limits of the Netherlands Nature Network. As we all know, Nature Network Netherlands is the cornerstone of biodiversity conservation in the Netherlands. Just at this point, I just gave it to..... there is a policy weakening, says Wageningen University. If we compare the rules in the Decree on general rules on spatial planning, which is also known by the abbreviation Barro... with the rules in the Decree on quality of living........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Now my question. I do not want to go into too much technical detail, but my question to the Minister is: can she promise that in principle the rules in the Quality of Living Environment Decision will be adopted politically neutrally, if we compare that with the rules laid down in the General Regulation on Spatial Planning? Let me now turn to my third point: the compensation for natural disasters. Nature compensation is often functionally necessary and is also really so arranged to prevent the quality and surface area of the Nature Network Netherlands from deteriorating, for example due to an activity elsewhere. And it is also meant to maintain the coherence between the areas of Nature Network Netherlands. Now in 2016 a motion of someone who is well known to all of us: the Van Veldhoven motion was adopted in the Lower House. And Mrs Van Veldhoven, who has now joined the cabinet, says: "Whereas the government proposes to allow nature compensation, that it is important to provide sufficient guarantees for high quality compensation," and asks the government "to ensure that high quality compensation is guaranteed, and also to ensure that nature organisations in the Netherlands are involved in assessing that quality." This motion was adopted by a large majority. Now the Minister writes at questions of D66 that the Van Veldhoven motion has been fully incorporated in the Decision quality living environment. But our own General Court thinks otherwise. The Court of Auditors says that everything is fine, but that nature compensation does not really work well in practice. Well, that's what we like to think with the Minister: how could we make it work better? And I have a few suggestions and questions for that to the Minister. First of all, according to the Decree general rules on spatial planning, the Barro, nature compensation must not be done within the Dutch Nature Network; it must be done just outside. And my question is: can the Minister confirm that, according to the Decision quality living environment, nature compensation can only take place outside the Netherlands Nature Network? Then we have a policy-neutral transposition. Finally, Mr President. In the case of nature compensation, timely compensation is also important. Earlier, the D66 Group asked the Minister: how should we explain the word "timely"? The Minister gave a clear and very good answer. It states that "timely" means that the compensatory measures must be implemented at least before the start of the activity in question. My question is actually: can the Minister confirm this answer on timeliness in this debate? So it is actually a written response to my question. Can she promise that this definition of "timeliness" will also be incorporated into the law? It may also be in my explanation of the law: what do we mean by the word "timeliness"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u30	A question about nature compensation within the national nature network, but linked to the conditions of D66, that we want quality nature back. Does Mrs Moonen agree with the statement that there are also very light packages within the national nature network, so very light nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u31	It's possible. The nature networks do indeed know all degrees in quality and also in objectives. But what matters to me is that the nature compensation caused by a harmful activity is not done elsewhere within the Netherlands Nature Network, but outside, because we do so in the Barro, and that I attach importance to the government's premise that the legislation is passed neutrally. That is why I am making this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u32	I have a supplementary question. Imagine that in that light part of the national nature network a ten times as heavy package with positive elements for nature can be placed with a particle outside the nature network. I'm looking with you for an optimization, say, of the improvement of nature conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u33	The Empire and all provinces have agreed targets for Nature Network The Netherlands anyway. They're gonna have to be picked up anyway. In addition, we know the concept of nature compensation for, for example, construction activities elsewhere in the country. This nature compensation also needs to be regulated, only not within the Netherlands Nature Network, but in addition to that. That's the point I'm making. We have done so in the Netherlands so far, and from a policy-neutral point of view, I would like to continue this approach, because that is what the government is trying to do. Finally, Mr President, I am, of course, also a woman from practice. It is very often the case that if you are going to build a new railway line in practice, for example, and you need ground excavations, you can work with work in that project. I'm sure Mrs. Klip will recognize that as a dike count. For example, you have moved land somewhere and you use it to develop nature elsewhere. The Grensmaas in Limburg is a very good example of this. These are just raw materials, but at the same time nature development has taken place. Perhaps that would be a good idea if you asked: can I just do that nature compensation in the project itself at the time of the project? This can be a very practical interpretation, which often leads to a lot of support in a region. You're actually working with work. For example, you can also make the compensation part of a route decision, in which you immediately indicate: we are going to compensate for that nature. Can the Minister indicate whether it is also possible, in addition to this timeliness, to allow nature compensation to be arranged in the area or in the project at the time that bulldozer is already in operation there? This way you can work on recovery in one act. Finally, Mr President. In the Van Veldhoven motion adopted, it was very clear: let us involve nature organisations in assessing the quality of nature compensation. My question to the Minister is: how did she implement the involvement of nature organisations in assessing the quality of compensation? That's where the knowledge and expertise are. These organisations exist and do not need to be redesigned. How, therefore, has it applied procedurally that these organisations are actually involved in that assessment, even if they are not parties, so that they are simply involved in that assessment in all cases? The D66 Group looks forward with interest to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-eerstekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. Then I'll suspend for lunch.
