ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is a VAA on pension matters. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Of course also a warm welcome to the Members, as well as to the people here in the public gallery and the people who follow this VAO in a different way. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker of this VAO, Mrs Van Brenk. She speaks on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a correct and complete overview of the work history is required to determine the exact amount of contributions paid and the amount of return on contributions paid;]] [[Whereas the study of 50PLUS has shown that it is very costly and time-consuming to get the full amount of pension building properly in individual cases;]] [[whereas the Minister for Social Affairs has said that it is "not practical" to "recalculate pension claims of pensioners";]] [[points out that it is perfectly logical that pensioners do not have any confidence in the pension agreement if the basis for their pension benefits cannot even be recalculated;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the elaboration of the pension agreement until it can be ensured that members of all ages are entitled to it;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the study of 50PLUS has shown that it is very costly and time-consuming to get the full amount of pension building properly in individual cases;]] [[Notes that the pension agreement does not allow a significant reduction in the overhead costs (organisation, external hiring and investment costs) of the pension system, so that structuralally more money is available for higher pensions;]] [[calls on the Government to cease the effect of the pension agreement until it can be ensured that the overhead costs in the new system are demonstrably lower than in the current system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the pension agreement provides a great deal of scope for pension funds to pursue their own policies, such as the allocation of returns and the handling of average systems;]] [[notes that the pension agreement leaves many opportunities to harmonise and simplify pension fund policies;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the elaboration of the pension agreement until it can be ensured that the new system can become simpler and more transparent than the current system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-542]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-541]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-540]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Diversity is a great asset. As GroenLinks, we think it is important that in many different places in society different people work, because of that interaction, of that crosspollination, everyone gets better in our eyes. Unfortunately, many pension fund boards are not very diverse at the moment. There are often fine words coming from the sector to improve this, but in practice they often lag behind. Hence the next motion, which I tabled together with Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no woman at the table of a quarter of pension fund management and that half of pension fund management has no 40-minner at the table;]] [[Whereas the current objective of the Pension Funds Code is to have at least one woman and one 40-miner on the board and that even this objective is still far from being achieved;]] [[Whereas despite all good intentions and small steps forward, the majority of older (40-plus) men are still chosen to fill new vacancies;]] [[whereas the Economic and Social Council (SER) has also concluded that the phase of good intentions is over and that it is time for quotas;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures if reporting on the diversity objectives does not show sufficient results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-543]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. This debate goes back to a general discussion about seven months ago and a lot has happened in the meantime. We now know that there is broad support for the elaboration of the pension agreement and we also know that it will take a few years before people have the letter on the mat and can read what it means to them all. I would like to repeat two points from our debate in July. One: the call to all parties in the field to make speed. Everyone in the Netherlands is asking for clarity and every month we can win contributes to this. The second point is an appeal to all the political parties in this Chamber to sit down. We have to do this together and there are fewer and fewer reasons not to. It is a good sign that the proposed list leader of 50PLUS supports the pension agreement. Great, that's a real win. I don't have any motions, but while the minister is here, I have one question. We should read in the newspaper that DNB will gradually introduce the new parameters, the new calculation rate, in particular over a period of four years. Has the Minister had to read this in the newspaper and does he agree with us that it will give us a lot of peace? Is there any way he can explain that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you. I see a question from Mrs Van Brenn. Perhaps in abundance: we are not going to repeat the debate. But go ahead, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u6	I have also challenged Mrs Van Brenk a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u7	It was indeed a challenge, because whatever list leader is elected on 3 October at 50PLUS, which must at least implement the electoral programme. I hope that's at least a woman. It was also said: all slide over and think along. Then I would very much like to clarify the point that was made last Tuesday. Someone is lying about the pension agreement, because it has been said that everyone is making progress, while we have all been able to read in Pension Pro that an actuary states that certainly in the coming years no more indexation will take place for the elderly; probably it will never happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u8	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u9	And my question is: why should we participate if this is the consequence of this pension agreement? What kind of support is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u10	That is indeed a bit of a repetition of the debate, but let me give a brief answer. I don't think anyone can promise that it'll all get better, because we don't know what the economy is doing and we don't know what the interest rate is doing. What we do know is that if other things stay the same, this will work out better and that we have operated 50PLUS in all possible ways. The calculus rate goes out. Let's do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u11	Thank you very much. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk. Mr Van Dijk speaks on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The general consultation was a while ago. I have a few questions, in particular on the elaboration of the pension agreement, first of all about the concerns of construction and dismantling, important sectors that agree on a collective fund to enable the important arrangement for early retirement. However, they are at odds with the fact that only individual employers can do so, while they would like to arrange agreements between employers and employees through a sectoral fund. So that's a concern. Can the Minister answer that? Secondly, there is a concern about phasing out, an important sector. That's where the avv ends. In order to be able to make new arrangements, they need a new avv as soon as possible. So I'd like a response from the Minister to this. My second concern concerns the elaboration of the pension agreement, namely the decision of DNB on the UFR. It's a well-known fact. Those are the current rules and that is part of the current nominal ftk. But we're going to a new world, to the new retirement contract. That means a number of years of impact. But if we are to continue to work with the current paramaters on the funds that want to switch to the new contract, this means that in the coming years the coverage will fall by 6% to 8%. Is the Minister prepared to look with the social partners at what we can do to deal smoothly with a decline due to these new parameters, which no longer apply to the new contract? That's a big concern for us. Such a new backlog could mean that funds decide not to move at all. So I'd like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk. Mr Jasper van Dijk speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u14	Mr. Chairman. Everyone would improve on the new pension agreement, but nothing seems less true. With this pension agreement, we've gone to an uncertain gambling pension. This uncertainty will continue for years to come without the elderly seeing a well-deserved old age. We therefore want the pension agreement to be broken so that new agreements can be made on other accounting rules, which take account of expected and achieved returns. Then pensions can rise again with prices, their pension cuts are off the table and our elderly get the fair pension they deserve. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the accounting rules of pension funds in such a way as to allow for short-term indexation and to send proposals to the Chamber by 1 November at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-544]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u15	Mr President, thank you very much. Last week Hart van Nederland reported on Mr. Dick den Duke. He's 69 years old, can't live off his AOW and retirement and is forced back to work. He's pissed off like a plug that this is necessary, and that makes sense. It is a disgrace how we treat our own people in the Netherlands. We have to help people like Dick den Duke. That is why I shall retable the following two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not only to remove the pension rebates for 2021, but also to avoid unnecessary pension reductions in the coming years due to the extremely low interest rates created by the ECB and the current rigid calculation rate in the transition to a new pension system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to maintain the current pension system and to improve the calculation rate by means of a real accounting rate that reflects the multiannual return of pension funds, thereby preventing reductions and allowing indexing in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-545]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-546]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u17	Thank you very much. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It feels a little uncomfortable to have a VAO about an AO of February 17th, when there was no pension agreement yet, and the fact that a number of people here now pretend like nothing happened in the meantime. The time of 17 February is even before the corona measures. So that was really centuries ago. So my questions are not so much about general consultation as about what needs to be done now. The one question I would like to ask about this general consultation is: can you ensure that the Uniform Pension Statement remains and becomes legally effective? It really looks like we don't know if we have a legal message about what we had. That is even more important in the transition because of course you go from a particular claim to a different kind of claim. Both can be worth tens of thousands and in some cases hundreds of thousands of euros if your entire pension assets are in it. That's got to be legal. Imagine if we decided here that your bank statement was no longer legal and that you could not derive any rights from it. Then ABN AMRO can send you a bank statement, but if there's a mistake, it's your problem. Well, that's how it works at the moment at the Uniform Pension Review and I don't think that's desirable. Mr. Chairman. There were two other things that would be done in the debate. There would be clear communication from the Ministry about what the pension agreement means: an explanation in two ways. I'd like to see it in the short term anyway. All the experts are talking about it and we are going to have a hearing about it, but this is about the pensions of more than 10 million Dutch people. They are entitled to an explanation that is readable; these are not the current letters of office for the non-expert. I am also still waiting for the effects of the survivor's pension. This would also be uniformised in the current system. I'd like to get the status report. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the CPB report has been published on the optimal pension system at very low interest rates. It'll hit the kids pretty hard. When are we going to get a cabinet response to that? Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u19	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u20	Mrs Den Haan really said that she supports the pension agreement. I just heard she's gonna have to change her mind for Mrs Van Brenn. I see Mrs. Van Brenk nodding. It is very interesting to hear that becoming the chairman of an elderly party in this country is not entirely uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u21	Thank you. You will undoubtedly follow that debate at another time. I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes so that the Minister can prepare himself for the reply and a judgment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u22	I would like to give the floor to the Minister to answer the questions put and to give his opinion on the motions. This is what I say to Members. Of course, there is an opportunity to ask a question, but please be brief and concise. Today, we have walked hugely, well, "enormous." This chairman is going to try to make sure that we have enough time for the last law tonight. The Minister has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I will deal first with the questions asked and then with the motions. I shall begin with Mr Van der Linde's question on the UFR and DNB's decision. It is an independent decision of De Nederlandsche Bank. I have been informed of this confidentially in advance. Since it's about price sensitive information, I'm never allowed to share it. It is therefore a decision of DNB that is made by DNB in the evening after the closing of the fairs. So that's the situation. As a result, Mr Gijs van Dijk asked: what exactly is the transition to the new system? As you know, I have agreed with the social partners that in the legislative proposal I am going to come up with a growth path from the current ftk to the new prudential framework, so to speak, which this is part of. We are now moving slowly in consultation with the supervisors and the social partners to include it in the legislative proposal. So I can't make a ruling on it right now. I'll get back to the bill on that. Mr. Gijs van Dijk also asked about earlier stopping work in construction and finishing. There is indeed a collective arrangement that has now been concluded in construction in order to be able to stop working earlier. There is currently a dispute as to whether it fits into the pension agreement and the sustainable employability side of the pension agreement. This is probably due to the collective nature of the framework rather than to individual employees. That's a point of interest. We know the situation. We're in touch with the partners on this. For the grant scheme, it does not matter whether the benefits are financed collectively, for example through a fund, or individually. However, it is important for the sector itself to indicate which workers within its sector are to benefit from an early retirement scheme. This has to do with, for example, all kinds of rules in the avv. It must be a specific group for those who work until the AOW age is difficult. So these are all questions of impact that we are in contact with the social partners and construction and dismantling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u24	A brief question from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u25	Thank you for that explanation. I am particularly concerned that it should be possible to make this type of collective arrangement, of course within the scope of the grant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u26	We can do the same within that subsidy scheme. So that's not where the problem is. The problem is at another technical point of the Avv law and how it is precisely defined. You shouldn't be asking me over right now. But there is contact on this point with the experts of the Ministry. Mr Omtzigt had one question that still comes from the AO of 19 February. It was about the UPO and in particular about its legal certainty and its enforceability. In my letter of 31 January on pension administrations, I referred to your Chamber's motion on legal certainty and enforceable rights. I said that it's different from a bank statement. It is about a collective power shared between collective participants. This means that there is no own funds available in the pension fund itself that can, for example, correct errors. That makes the situation really different from a bank. If a bank provides information, the bank's own funds are still available, so that when a mistake is made, the bank can repay it from its own funds, which is not the case with a collective pension fund. That's the answer I gave back then. So you can't say unilaterally that it's enforceable. Apart from that, I agree with Mr Omtzigt that, of course, what the rights are must be clear. I believe that in the pension agreement itself, the new system is more transparent and clear than in the current system of claims. I think this is also the profit of the pension agreement. I have, however, put forward three concrete measures which follow on from Mr Omtzig's question. The first is the right of the participant to a recalculation. The second is a proper policy for the recovery and correction of pension administrators if mistakes have been made. Unfortunately, mistakes are being made in practice. The third is that there is a more adequate internal complaint procedure for pension administrators, which is justified by any criticism of such a mistake that has been made. Pensioners take these measures and, if necessary, the law prescribes them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u27	A brief question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u28	I remember that letter before I asked the question. However, would the Minister like to take a closer look at the fact that when a new pension agreement is introduced, it must simply be traceable to a retired person or an active one what the old rights were and how they are converted into the new rights? If you don't do that in a followable and verifiable way, you'll get some kind of black box and nobody will understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u29	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u30	I fully agree with Mr Omtzigt. So, in the transition framework, it needs to be transparent how the current claims are converted into assets, which are the assumptions below, what it means for the expected pension benefits, which groups are negatively affected by the abolition of the average systems and how they are compensated. That must be done in a very transparent way, otherwise there will be no support for such a transition. I very much agree with that. That was also agreed in the pension agreement itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u31	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u32	We agreed on the survivor's pension in the pension agreement, also following the advice of the Foundation of Labour and also following an initiative paper by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. We have taken action and the intended date of introduction is 1-1-2022. If more information is available, we will come back to you about this. Mr Omtzigt's third point was about clear communication on the pension agreement. We took that to heart. Last summer it was also worked hard by all kinds of communication people on national government.nl, where various infographics and commercials explain the pension agreement and what it means and what it means in concrete terms. So that information is available. It can, of course, be opened up even better and brought to the attention of the public, which we will also be doing in the course of the coming months. I can also say that, in the short term, the cabinet will come forward with a response to the CPB report on the low-interest environment. Then there's the motions. I'm not gonna joke about the 50PLUS list leader and the pension agreement, because that would be really too easy. Mrs Van Brenn's three motions are all about postponing the pension agreement. As you know, I don't intend to do that. As a follow-up, I think it was Mr Van der Linde who said that we need to make haste and we need to work together to work this out as quickly as possible. I agree with those words by Mr Van der Linde. Our commitment is also aimed at working it out as quickly as possible. So I would like to dissuade Mrs Van Brenn's three motions from arguing that I did not intend to postpone it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u33	A brief question from Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u34	At an AO, I'm sure we'll have a debate about our research. I am concerned about the point that Mr Omtzigt also mentioned and that is a concern for us too. People don't get all their UPO now. In an investigation 151 people all said: I don't trust the amount that I get deposited every month and whether that's true...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u35	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u36	If we cross over later, that trust will be completely gone. How are we going to make sure people know it's correct and they also know what they're getting in the future is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u37	I'm just gonna take a few things apart. I very much agree that the pension administration should be in order. That was both a point by Mr Omtzigt and a point by Mrs Van Brenk. I also very much appreciated that 50PLUS had the investigation carried out. What I find reassuring is that that own research shows that it has gone well in many cases. That doesn't mean it's good in all situations. Improvements are really needed in some pension administrations, especially in the case of old schemes that have been merged over time. There can be no misunderstanding about that. We're working with the supervisor to improve that. Another point is the transition, the entry into a new system. In response to Mr Omtzigt's contribution, I have already indicated that this must be done very transparently. This must be traceable and, for all participants, pensioners, workers and younger workers, there must be a clear explanation of what is happening and how these calculations have been made. That is why we have also introduced a strengthened right of objection, for example for the accountability body, in order to be able to properly assess that type of information. So there can be no misunderstanding about that. But Mrs Van Brenk links these two points and says: that is why we have to stop. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u38	Thank you. The motions on the documents Nos. 540 to 542 have now been discouraged. What is your verdict on the motion in part No. 543?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u39	The motion in part No. 543 by Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Weyenberg. It calls for additional measures where reporting on the diversity objectives does not show sufficient results. That is indeed in line with the policy we have previously shared with each other. So the motion gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u40	The motion in part No. 543 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u41	The motion in part No. 544 by Mr Jasper van Dijk is concerned with adapting the accounting rules to allow for short-term indexation. We have concluded a whole pension agreement with each other which brings the objectives mentioned by Mr Jasper van Dijk closer to the future. I would like to mention the objective of achieving a return, to be able to distribute it more quickly to the participants and to say goodbye to the current system where this is not possible. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u42	The motion in part No. 544 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u43	The motion in part No. Mr De Jong's motion follows on from Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion. It is a repetition of motions tabled in previous pension agreement debates. It is also asked to re-run the interest rate. You know I'm not in favour of that. That is why I advise against this motion in part No. 545.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u44	The motion in part No. 545 is not recommended. There is a short question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u45	What this motion is asking is for pension discounts to be removed for the coming years. To explain briefly: last week Mr Koolmees responded to an item about Mr Dick den Hertog in a broadcast by Hart van Nederland. That gentleman is 66 years old and he has to go back to work. Because he doesn't get around with his AOW and retirement. He feels a little cheated by the way the pension agreement was presented. It was said, "Everyone's about to notice." Mr Koolmees said that in five years' time we will be able to index something, so that will all be fine. But in five years, this best gentleman will be 74 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u46	Your question!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u47	Can Mr Koolmees say here today...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u48	The Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u49	Can Mr Koolmees, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, say here today that for the next five years he will be taking off the discounts relating to the transition to the new system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u50	I can never promise that. That's what I said before in the Chamber. Look at, for example, what has happened to corona over the past year, what effect that has had on the financial market and on the levels of coverage of pension funds. So such a promise would be gratuitous and I can't live up to it either. I'm not gonna do that either. That's one. Two: each year in August, the government looks at the purchasing power figures for the coming year and makes adjustments to them if necessary. The result will of course be shown to the Chamber on Prince's Day. The third point is that the calculations made in the pension agreement with regard to future pensions are positive. That actually applies to all participants. I keep saying that there is another side of the coin, namely that there is more uncertainty in it. We have to keep telling that straight all the time. It is indeed about a period of perhaps five years. So that hasn't been realized yet. That requires legislation and then the transition must be properly regulated. That's not gonna happen next year. These are three answers to Mr De Jong's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u51	Thank you. Briefly concluding, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u52	There are pension funds that will have to cut short in order to get to the new system. They'll be here in a minute. My question is simply whether the Minister for Social Affairs can prevent this or whether he will at least do his utmost to ensure that this is not done if it is really due to the fact that we are going to the new system. And can he promise that that's really not gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u53	Thank you. Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u54	It is not the case that pension funds have to cut short because they are going to a new system. Of the current funds some of them, fortunately not all of them, have a very poor level of coverage because of what happened around corona, because of what has actually been going on for ten years with a fall in interest rates, and they are therefore in a bad position at the moment. This has nothing to do with the new system; it has to do with the situation of departure. I have already said this twice, last year because of the pension agreement concluded at that time and also because of the special economic circumstances, which is not reduced to 90% in the case of cover rates, but to prevent funds from falling through their hoofs and never getting over Jan again. But that has nothing to do with the pension agreement; that has to do with the situation they are in right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u55	Thank you. Moreover, I think we are going to talk very extensively about the pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u56	Yeah, and more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u57	And more often. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. 546.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u58	The motion in part No. 546 is actually the extension of the motion in part No. 545 and also of the motion in part No. 544 by Mr Jasper van Dijk. I'd like to dissuade them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u59	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-13.u60	Voting on the motions for resolutions next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for his presence and for answering the questions.
