ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. We have eight speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is not here. That's Mrs. Bergkamp. I'm gonna take another look. That is why we are starting with the second speaker, Mr Renkema, but he is heading in the wrong direction. He's gonna pick up his lines. Mrs. Agema forgot her line. Well, well, well, that's gonna be something today. I call Mr Renkema. We are very interested in what your policy officer has written down for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will resist the temptation to respond to your comment, but I can say that it is mostly co-productions at GroenLinks. We're gonna talk about full life. The word "full" in our language means "that which lacks nothing." That has the connotation of completely, truly, truly. People with disabilities should not have an exception in our society. You'd say we all form that society together. It's also a beautiful word: society. Everyone in there has their place. Only one can claim that place a little easier than the other. Full life covers the load very nicely. Everyone, with any visible or invisible limitation, has the right to life to the full. That is why we can only welcome this initiative, at least it is of course an action programme, a programme worthy of praise, with lines of action, projects and indicators. However, sometimes I feel a bit uncomfortable with all the Minister's action programmes. I'm not the only one in there. Also from the field I often get the question: what if this program is completed? The program as a whole runs until 2021, but there are so many different pilots in the program. That's always a term with uncertainty, a pilot. How does the Minister intend to pursue this if they are successful? How does he guarantee them and how does the Minister guarantee that the people who are now fully committed to making this a success will be involved and heard? I would like to comment on this point. Then something about the deployment and scope of this program. Of all people with disabilities a relatively small proportion, about 10%, gets care from the Long-Term Care Act, the Wlz. That is the main focus of this programme. Well, that's nice, of course. However, there is also a large category of people who want to live fully, but who are not limited to the Wlz. The category of people who actually belong in both boxes, both the Wlz and the Social Support Act, is large. How big, we do not know, because it is difficult to understand all kinds of cross-domain problems when there are separate programs and separate laws for each problem. People with disabilities, especially their escorts, often no longer have an overview where they can go. I hear a lot of stories about being sent from the locker to the wall. Does the Minister recognise this and if so, does he currently have figures, or is he prepared to map them on how large the category of people who want and can use both laws? I'd like a response. I have a lot of concerns about the leavers from secondary special education and practical education. Many of them are at home, and the Participation Act is not helping them at the moment. We very much appreciate the fact that in the programme there is attention to training pathways, practical declarations and learning in day-to-day spending, but the number of places is very limited there. Is the Minister prepared to raise the bar here? Finally, worrying reports reach us about those indispensable, but unfortunately also some more invisible people who help people with disabilities, not the professionals, but those who often work their way around to support the people in their environment who have a disability. When these next of kin fall down, the lives of those they care for often fall apart. Of course, it's nice that this program focuses on better information and less time-consuming support for this group, but what they really need is respite care to take a breath and think about themselves, not to be 100% responsible. However, we hear that municipalities are often reluctant to use this kind of grace care. Does the Minister recognise these signals and do he have any idea why the municipalities are so reluctant in this? That is important, because when close relatives can no longer care, the lives of those who have a disability become much more difficult. Then there is no full life at all, which is what we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Full Life Programme is one of the Minister's many action programmes. We usually know what such an action plan means: lots of beautiful words, beautiful pictures, beautiful tweets, a beautiful vlog. Unfortunately, the practice does not change so much. During the preparation for this debate, I looked at the progress report, and then specifically at the progress report that is being presented in simple language. I can recommend everyone to read that version, which is only 12 pages instead of the 42 pages that the actual progress report is long, without long introductions and clearer. I would like to ask the Minister how that actually works. Is there anyone in his ministry who writes the simple version, after which the minister himself or someone else is going to make it very complicated? Or is there a very complicated piece that is made easier after that? If it is the latter, can I ask if in future all the pieces can be written directly in simple language? That is much more pleasant for everyone, even for our controlling task. In December we had a debate on the UN Convention for People with Disabilities. We also discussed at length how the position of people with disabilities has deteriorated rather than moved forward, which was precisely the intention. We had a shadow report with devastating criticism. What you read in it is in a very stark contrast to all the fine principles that we can read in this action programme. Of course, the SP is very pleased with the extra places that the Minister announces, the 100 places that are needed for people with a heavy need for care. But our question is: are these 100 places really enough? It is also good that prices are being looked at, but the question is: does it have enough effect? We have often had the debate about those who need the most intensive care, who need a little extra budget, so that they can not only get basic care, but also that little extra care for the development they can go through. I would like to ask the Minister: is this budget enough? We know that a lot of young people with severe disabilities do not go to school. We also know that poverty among people with disabilities has grown considerably in recent years. We know there's a lot of trouble with the tools. I saw the minister in cash register, in the broadcast about the resources. He could say proudly there, so he himself said, that everything would be fine. But in the same broadcast it appeared that this is not the case in many places. We are still receiving a lot of e-mails, a lot of messages, from people with disabilities who are still not getting the right help. I do not think it is possible for that to happen for as long as we have been discussing this. So my question is actually, apart from this wonderful programme: when does the Minister take responsibility for this sort of thing? How is he going to put an end to the arbitrariness of municipalities, but also to the arbitrariness of providers? Mr. Chairman. For the SP, these are the fundamental questions that need to be answered today and also in the forthcoming debates on disability care. I see a lot of well-intentioned initiatives in the action plan, but I miss the Minister's crucial solutions for strengthening the position of people with disabilities. So I'm talking about work, income, a house and the right care. The action plan is about ambassadors, congresses, case managers, copilots and everything. But on those most basic parts, the minister is failing. It sounds nice and you can be very busy with these kinds of programmes, but I would like to hear from the cabinet and the minister what concrete measures this cabinet is taking to strengthen the position of people with disabilities, rather than sending us more long or short reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. Mrs Bergkamp has now arrived. That is why I am happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning. It is good that we are having this debate. As a Chamber, we have never really talked about this program of full life. There are several reasons for that, but it also says a lot. The disability sector is a modest sector, with a lot of passionate staff. That is why I think it is very important that we, as a Chamber, have an eye for this. Mr. Chairman. When I look at the program, I see that a lot of actions have started. But my question to the Minister is: what do people who work in the disabled sector and people with disabilities see in practice? It looks like a somewhat fragmented approach. They're sympathetic projects, but they're a little small. How are we going to ensure the required results together? Can the Minister state his views on the disability sector? What's going well? What's not going well? In any case, I will make a contribution, because there are a number of issues that I am asking and I have some concerns about. Mr. Chairman. As an example, the group was slightly intellectually limited. The programme explicitly states that these people are among the target groups of this programme, but in the reporting we see little of this group. It's mainly about Wlz care, the Long-Term Care Act. Also in the cabinet response to the IBO, the IBO is an opinion from several departments.We do not see any reference to the programme. However, we do see problems for this target group. I ask the Minister why he does not pay attention to this group in this programme. In general discussions on the disability sector, which will take place in April, I will certainly pay more attention to this. Then I call first-line care for people with intellectual disabilities. As can be seen from Marloes Heutmekers' research, primary care, even outside office hours, is not naturally adapted to the target group of people with intellectual disabilities. I would like to receive a response to that. Mr. Chairman. There are many developments in disability care. There are also a lot of new scientific insights. There is indeed development when it comes, for example, to people with multiple disabilities or complex care. Yet we see that the health profiles have been the same for about ten years. Between the profiles of VG6 and VG7 there is also a lot of uncertainty about the demarcation. A lot of substantive work has been done and there is a lot on the shelf. VGN has played a very important role in this. My question to the Minister is: why does it take so long to update these care profiles? What's his schedule in there? Maybe he'd like to give CIZ an order for that actualization? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna talk about the Law of care and coercion. We're getting a lot of disturbing signals about this law. In general, we see that this law in practice turns into an abomination of rules and accountability for the people who work in care. There is also still a great deal of uncertainty about this law, although we agreed with each other that a great deal of important work would be done in the transition year. What is the Minister going to do in that year of transition? Is he willing to sit at the table with the sector and the inspection to deal with this terrible regulatory pressure? That couldn't have been the intention of this law, could it? Is there going to be an amendment to the law? What does he want to do to improve communication about the law? Mr. Chairman. Then I call innovation. The VVD and D66 have previously tabled an amendment to increase the budget from 5 million to 15.5 million. There would be a multiplier effect through co-financing. The implementation of best practices would also be launched. We do not see enough of that in practice. The way in which the amendment has been implemented is not in fact entirely in line with the expectations we had as parties to it. The implementation focuses mainly on the possibility to hire an advisor, although our goal was to implement the best practices. I would like to receive a response to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About two million people with disabilities live in the Netherlands. With 130,000 people, this restriction is so serious that they need intensive care and support every day. Almost 75,000 people can no longer live at home because of this. They live in an institution; that is a terrible word, by the way. Those are impressive numbers. Those are numbers, but of course they're mostly people. They're people like you and me, with dreams and wishes, but they're also people who get it all a lot less gift in life than you and I. More is needed to give them the opportunity to get the best out of themselves, to participate in our society. It's good that we're working hard on that. This is, of course, done in everyday practice by all employees in disability care. They deserve a great compliment for that. We are also working hard on this with the Full Life Programme, of which we are discussing progress today. I support this programme and its objectives, but I do have a few questions about it now that the programme is running for almost a year and a half. First of all, I note that full life is actually limited to people in the Long-Term Care Act, but only one in ten people with disabilities is covered by that law; so the other nine is not. What does the Minister say to them? Is he saying, for example, that the outline note will also explicitly address disability care in the broad sense, so to speak? That note is about the care of the future and we get before the summer. Or does he say to them that he has done some extra work on implementing the UN Convention on Disability since we talked about this last year? After all, the criticism of people with restrictions on that treaty was not easy at the time. Yesterday I asked Chamber questions, because two out of three municipalities still do not have a website that is accessible to the hearing impaired and visually impaired. It is now four years after the Treaty enters into force. Mr. Chairman. In the introduction to the first interim report we have received, we talk about "fake steps" and "according to plan." If you read further to where the state of play is outlined and monitoring comes around the corner, it is striking that there is still mainly activity and not really results. However, the programme has been running since October 2018, as I have just said. Does the Minister think it's actually taking quite a long time, perhaps too long? In particular, how is the Minister going to ensure that the desired results are achieved and secured and that they can be scaled up, as it is called, after the period of the plan? For example, 450 people receive help from a client supporter, which is extremely important to them. At the same time that is far from enough, given the numbers with which I started my story. I won't say it's a drop on a glowing plate. The same applies to the more devoted to what is called experience expertise. There are enormous opportunities, for the disabled as a whole, and for the experienced experts themselves. How is the Minister going to ensure that the deployment of more client supporters and experience experts really gets a boost? How does he ensure that it doesn't end with the over and over-confirming, as in a debate like this, how important they can be? How does he ensure that it doesn't end up bumping from pilot to pilot, without ultimately regulating structural funding? That's what I'm saying is necessary. The latter certainly also applies to the pilot Lifelong Guidance for people with autism, which was launched last year. You shouldn't want to stop that pilot all of a sudden. Is the Minister prepared to start a pilot with specialised pgb support in a number of municipalities? Mr. Chairman. The Action Plan also discusses the important role of people working in disability care and what is expected of them. That's a big deal. It will not be the motivation of those people, because you do not just work in disability care. The conditions under which they have to do their job are an important breakaway. They have almost the worst collective agreement in health care, a huge workload, absenteeism that has been pushed to record levels and employers to whom the concept of good employership does not really seem to have been spent. Yesterday, employees of Amerpoort came to Baarn, but a total of 1,700 people still work there. For example, they have to turn in contracts because otherwise the employer will not be able to pay the agency workers he also has. The employer does not want to offer these temporary workers a contract. I think that's insane. I ask the Minister what the shortage of staff in disability care and what I have just mentioned mean to improve the content of care. How does the promotion of professional development and craftsmanship, as it is called in the plan, get off the ground in those circumstances? Is it coming off the ground? I mean, you can definitely ask people for something, but not the impossible. Finally, Mr President. What is the situation with regard to the introduction of an official registration of the teaching counsellor? This is desirable by the people who work in the sector themselves and is not insignificant in the more attractive positioning of the profession. That's what it is: a trade. I'm sorry, I see I've passed a little over my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Keeping to time is also a profession. I give the floor to Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the Full Life Programme, the Minister has chosen to implement a programme with three lines of action aimed at caring for people with severe disabilities. Those are people living in an institution funded by the Long-Term Care Act. This means that the Minister makes a targeted choice. This programme is not aimed at anyone with a disability, but at people with very serious disabilities. That's a very vulnerable group. I would like to express my appreciation for all those people who work day and night in this sector to give them a decent life. Mr. Chairman. Although the Full Life programme defines a target group, the programme is characterised by a multitude of actions and projects. The Minister does and, and, and. It is therefore sometimes difficult to keep an overview of all good intentions and projects. Can the Minister outline, on the basis of the three lines of action, exactly where his focus is? For the CDA, the focus of this group is actually on two things. First, creating 100 extra places for people with a very complex care demand, part of Action Line 2: more appropriate support for specific groups. My colleague Mr Joba van den Berg has already drawn attention to this during the budget debate. An inventory by Zorgverzekerings Nederland of the demand for customized work places shows that this group with a very complex care demand is 50 to 80 extra places. For 40 of them, it is clear that there should be a tailor-made place, and 40 other clients are being investigated. But these places really need to be created. How many of those 50 to 80 people with a very complex care demand have already been purchased and operational? Secondly, the group of residents between 150 and 250 people who in the present place do not receive the care that suits them. The progress report says that healthcare firms have started buying up 100 of these clients who are not yet in the right place within the current system. Does that mean that there are still 150 client adjustments to be made? Couldn't this search for whether we can find the right place for these people for that second group of people with a complex care question be accomplished by taking another critical look at the care profiles? Institutions receive money on the basis of a number of criteria, depending on the degree of limitation of a resident. That's a care profile. The data on which the current healthcare profiles are based date back to 2006-2007. The Vereniging Gehandippenzorg Nederland, VGN, has already looked at these current care profiles and has noticed that they are no longer quite appropriate today. I think Mrs Bergkamp said something about that too. How does the Minister view the provision of an assignment to CIZ to develop new healthcare profiles based on current data and scientific insights? An important point... I think that Mrs Bergkamp or she should already know what I want to say to her on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	You shouldn't be looking at that. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very nice that the CDA also pays attention to the care profiles and that it would be nice if such an order were given to the CIZ. So I'm very curious about the Minister's answer. But let's talk about the previous point. A number of customized places have been purchased in the Wlz. There is also a group that does not fit in and somehow does not receive adequate care. Does the CDA agree with D66 that it is important to learn from that and to find out what the red threads are looking at the people who cannot get into some kind of standard profile because their need is too complex?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	Yeah, I agree with D66. That's why I made that link that we now have new data. So I can imagine that those profiles as they were made before do not actually offer that customization. It may also be true that the complexity of this group is so specific that no system will come true, even if we are to come up with a new system. Then I guess we'll have to think of something else. But I actually want to look at what VGN has been investigating and what might also be investigating the CIZ, to see if we can put people in a system. It's often easier, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	Fine, you're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. An important point to keep people for work in disability care is when they can stay in work fit. It is important to support employees through technology. Innovations are important. Now I understand that healthcare institutions cannot make use of subsidies from the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands, the RVO, because healthcare institutions are not entrepreneurs. Isn't that right, and isn't that a shame? Would the Minister like to contact his colleague from EZK on this matter, or would there still be opportunities for that? Finally, a point that I have already raised with Mr Renkema, including during the budget debate. That is access to general care for people with disabilities. Everyone, including the most vulnerable, has the right to general medical care. For this purpose, the general practitioner is essential because the doctor has his/her own role as a specialist and has not been trained as a general practitioner. The answer that Mr Renkema and I received was that everyone would talk to everyone to arrange it, but has that consultation already resulted in the 5,000 clients who have received a cancellation from the GP now being able to receive medical care again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's great. Then Mrs. Laan-Geselschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As mentioned above, about 2 million people with disabilities live in the Netherlands. One of them was my aunt, my mother's sister. She had a trisomy of the twentieth chromosome, i.e. Down's syndrome. She turned 72; last year, unfortunately, she died. As long as I can remember, she lived in the LesserHof in Lonneker in beautiful Twente. She lived there, had a job in the linen room and at the local pet store, and made music in the band. The whole family cared about her, but she got the best care in the LosserHof, from the employees there. That was loving care of employees that day in, day out for her. Thanks again to all of you. The programme we are talking about today, which started on 1 October 2018, has three lines of action, which has already been referred to. Those three lines are: making quality and content of care provision more appropriate to the needs of care, more appropriate care and support for specific groups, and giving more care to people close to them. Together with Elke(in), professional organisations, the Vereniging Gehandippenzorg Nederland and Zorgverzekerings Nederland, an attempt is being made to improve the aforementioned actions. The VVD believes that everyone in the Netherlands should be able to make something of his life. Wherever that really doesn't work, the government is there to support you or your family. The programme focuses on many areas. Reports and analyses of progress are expected in the course of this year. In my view, therefore, the debate we are having is a little too early. That is a pity, because, as Mr Bergkamp said, a subject like this deserves the attention of the Chamber. I therefore ask the Minister how he sees the care of Dutch people with disabilities in the long term. Here too, the shortage of caregivers will play a role. Here too, the number of carers is decreasing. And here too, the costs will play a role in the trade-offs. Can we assume that this issue will be explicitly mentioned in the future or the Minister's outline note? I am not just referring to the group covered by the Wlz, to which the colleague of the CDA referred. Mr Hermans has drawn particular attention to the innovation impulse mentioned in the programme in the previous debate and has arranged co-financing through an amendment together with Mr Bergkamp. We would have liked to have seen this co-financing from society. Fifteen minute makers have now been appointed and consultation platforms created, but what innovations are actually widely distributed in the Netherlands? How's that going? How do the good ideas become more than just good ideas? 'Cause that's what the money was meant for. We are therefore very curious as to where this money has gone. The programme also creates 100 additional places for people with complex care questions. This is a vulnerable group. I read that the first progress figures are expected in the course of 2020. I would like to ask the Minister to clarify this already, as it also states in the documents that additional legislation and regulation will be necessary to make this complex care possible in a structural manner. In autumn 2019, care offices would have systematically mapped out both the need for care and the current available supply in complex care through a regional task force. At the end of 2019, this would give us an insight into the available offers by region, customers without a suitable location and the lack of national and regional supply. We don't have this insight yet. Can the Minister give us that now, so that we can see this and anticipate the follow-up? Customer support is also an important part of the program. With specialist support that varies from target group to target group, the aim is to help families with their needs. We believe that this is a good development, as it strengthens people in their own functioning and, in the long term, can move forward independently if possible. The question is how wide the scope of these pilots is and how they are anchored in everyday practice. Let me just say a few words about the indication. As a VVD together with other colleagues, we have asked how this indication can be better established when children actually have something wrong, without having to apply for that extension every time. People and families need peace on this front. That is the least we can offer them as a government. Mr. Chairman. The care my aunt got for years is something we need to cherish. We have to watch for that, and if we can, we have to stay that way. In addition, the task is to us to think about the future. That is the specific question to this Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. What a beautiful indication: full life. For me it's actually something of some kind of conviction. That when you see people with very serious limitations, you say: this is full life. For me, this also goes back to the fact that every life is precious, valuable and created by God. At the same time, if you have that as a conviction, it is also good to turn that into action. Otherwise, it's a little easy. Then you also show and notice that you want to give these people the best care. I also liked the fact that so many have said that there are a lot of people who are passionate and professionally doing their job in disability care. That's right. That's what we should cherish. At the same time, we see shortcomings in the implementation of the action programme. There is a lot of good in that, but of course we also like to talk about things that go wrong to see what can be done better. In that context I also noticed how difficult it is when people don't fit completely in one box. An inspiring example I found in a facility where I was on a job visit and where someone threw food, where the environment was adapted, until someone said: can we not think better about what is actually happening here? When it appeared that there was also a mental impairment, of a disorder in the autistic spectrum, after which it was dealt with in a completely different way. I often hear that there is a combination of mental disability and psychiatry. Has policy been sufficiently time-consuming to recognise this and to be able to work with it in an innovative way? That is my first question to the Minister. Secondly, the relief of the relatives is also an important, beautiful and clear line of action, involving more than projects. I always like it when those lines of action are between the ears. Then people get to work on it themselves and not only are you busy carrying out a project, but you see what else you can do in it. In that context, I discovered that in this case it was an e-mail from parents that in complicated situations it is difficult to find a possibility for accommodation and respite care. Because the institutions are actually saying that we need a lot of care for this and we have limited opportunities; we can help more people with lighter limitations, so we prefer to do so. That is also understandable, said the parents of this woman with learning difficulties. But at the same time they said that this concern is indeed very heavy; it would be nice if we could also claim it. So my question is simply: what can we advise and mean in situations like this? How can this be handled better? Then there's the complex care. It has been said that sometimes it is so complicated that it may take a very long time for appropriate care to be found. There is a beautiful program Support Appropriate Care Supply, aimed at finding structural solutions in the search for appropriate care. Does this really pay off already? Do municipalities and client supporters already know how to find that way? We sometimes get signals that this is not always the case. Finally, I would like to say something about the regulatory burden. We always like to get back to that, because during these work visits we always sniff out that people find: please, the less time we spend on all kinds of red tape, the more we can deal with care ourselves. As far as reporting incidents is concerned, I am told that sometimes there is a lot of paperwork involved and little comes back to it. So people are wondering: what exactly do we do that for? We also seem to be lagging behind in what the action programme is about administration in a complex care question. Why is that? And what can be done about it? Mr. Chairman. Those were my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Agema of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are discussing today the progress of one of this Minister's many action plans. Can I get the speaker's chair up a little bit? I'm not that small. This action plan has three main lines of action: first, a more qualitatively appropriate offer for people with disabilities, second, adequate places for people with complex care needs and third, more care for people with disabilities. These lines of action are of course delicious, but this action plan has also been just a nice photo moment for the minister. There's no way to determine if anything really improves for the people who it's about and their caregivers. When it comes to enough places for people with a complex care question, we get clarity: the 100 that was first assumed must now be 50 to 80. But what that's based on, we don't know. At the moment there is not even one extra place that has been realized and that has to be done at some point, I think. The question is when has it been realized? Hopefully the Minister can clear that up. 500 people have started pathways for self-development and talent development, but why 500? What's that number based on? No one really knows that. We don't know exactly what's going on either. And what can really be said about more skilled staff and more choosing a career in disability care? Yesterday, disabled workers took action to improve working conditions. These employees are angry because there is less and less time for clients. Also in disability care, the administrative burden is only increasing, to 31% according to Berenschot, while so much can but not happen. For example, the administrative burden on day-to-day spending can be significantly reduced if there is no need to register with the health offices whether or not someone is present. If there is a contract for twice a week, why does it have to be registered per day, week in, week out? Wouldn't an amendment be a solution? If you delete this kind of administration, play your hands free and the rates can also decrease. This is just one of many examples of too much unnecessary administrative burden. In a previous debate we asked about the complex multi-care application procedures. Applying for more care is so complicated that it requires a highly trained employee. This person is then working on this for so long that the institution loses more money than the income from this multi-care scheme. Institutions therefore often refrain from doing so. Meanwhile, the Minister understands what I'm talking about, but has anything changed? No, and it should. As far as group care is concerned, the Minister now understands what I'm talking about, but does anything change? No. Then the care of the neighbors. Parents with a sick child are awoken by the reduction of the pgb rate by municipalities. The pieces also say that 450 people would receive support, but if we continue reading, then the updates say that there are 150 people on the route. I don't even know what the 500 was based on. What has been done in concrete terms to solve the complex care administration and constantly sending it from the locker to the wall, with which parents of sick children and long-term sick people themselves have to deal with? We also see good initiatives, such as the brother and sister initiative, but how does this come to the attention of all those brothers and sisters of all those people with disabilities? When it comes to carelessness, I'd like to lance for the organization MEE. We all know MEE here, but outside these doors MEE is not very well known. They support parents of children with a lifelong disability throughout the country. However, we can see that the organisation is difficult to find. Would it be an idea to make sure that this problem comes on the retina of municipalities, general practitioners and pediatricians, so that parents get support earlier and are freed from part of the locker-to-the-wall problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend until 11:45 and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	The Minister has the floor. I hope he can do it briefly and pointy, because we still have votes and debates later today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. There are still many debates today. We'll see each other about all day, till late tonight. If you were to see the home front so many times, that would be a great impulse in your relationship. So this is gonna be a great day. Mr. Chairman. It is a nice beginning of this beautiful day anyway, because there is an important theme and a beautiful sector ahead. Many have referred to the title of the program, Full Life, and it matters to the full. That is exactly what the programme is intended to do. That is actually exactly how disability care works. It is nice to go to work anyway, but visiting the disabled is really the best cure for gloom. Every time you lower your shoulders and think, "Hey, what's going on in the world?" you really need to go to work in disability care. I think you're just getting a little bit happier in there. There's so much loving care there, so much joy, so much commitment and so much dedication. That's really very impressive. I always find that very significant for disability care. It is also good to hear about this, because that is how you talk about it. This does not mean that there is no huge task for disability care. There are a lot of things to do. Let's turn the film back to the start of the cabinet period when we looked at what the policy programming would be for this cabinet period. I also thought about disability care in that way, and then I talked to the sector, the client organisations and the professionals to see what would actually be needed. The first thing they gave me is: beware of violent system changes. These system changes take incredibly much time and cause a lot of hassle. It takes a very long time before you can expect a result that is noticeable for clients. The second thing people say is: looking to the future, we do have a number of things to do to ensure that disability care is future-proof. Some of you have referred to this. Mrs Bergkamp, among others, pointed this out. That's how I see it. In fact, you can see that the clients in disability care are getting older and that this also changes their demand for care. That's one element. Another element is the feeling that customer care is becoming increasingly complex. That could be because for that other part of those clients the municipal domain is now also more excited and institutions in the Wlz indeed have a more complex type of client. The same phenomenon you saw in nursing care. The sector has a strong feeling that "we must continue to anticipate and adapt to this, because if we do not, it will do something with quality and then it will do something with the overload of employees'. That, on its own, could trigger a negative spiral that you must want to avoid. The sector is therefore looking at this very proactively. It is said that with a more complex client we will also have to organise our own work in a different way. That is a second phenomenon that plays and on which you have to find an answer. The third thing I have heard very strongly, especially in conversations with parents, is that there really is a world to be won in supporting relatives, in supporting and caring for parents. That is not because parents are not supported, because parents are supported in many ways, but the sum total of all that good policy and all that good intentions policy is not yet that parents actually feel supported. In particular, parents of very severely limited children have highlighted this very well with the working group We see you well. In the pervasiveness with which they have shown that support at home really had to be different and better and could also be better, there is a lesson for disability care at all. I'll come back to that later. So these are a number of issues that I think should be put into practice in order to be ready for the future. This is also a bit of the analysis we made at the start of the cabinet period. I'm not saying that that's all new. No, that movement had already started in disability care, and it deserves to be supported. I have indeed done so with this programme. You know my love for programmatic work. I think that is often a much faster way to actually show people something, but at the same time a more cautious way. Legal changes and changes in systems, apart from the fact that not laws and systems but ultimately care for people, can sometimes have unintended negative effects that inhibit the progress you must want to make. In short, I believe in that programmatic work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	It is important what the Minister says: no change in the system, no future, and much has been set in motion. There are a lot of projects, for example the beautiful project We see you Well, with the copilots. There is a concern: how will we proceed with all these projects? 'Cause there's a lot of them. We'd like that secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	A very fair question; Mr Renkema also had that question. You must, of course, want to give firmness to that which you learn, that which creates learning effects and that which you are willing to organize differently. That goes for the pilots in the client support anyway.I'll come back to that a little more precisely later, because that's what you're finally helping 450 people with. Of course, this aid cannot stop when the cabinet period is over. That is where the guarantee applies very specifically, but even more so there is a lesson in simply organising customer support differently and how that will be followed up. So we are actually looking at each project to see how best to ensure the learning effect and how best to proceed with it in the sector. In fact, in the next progress report, which comes in October, I want to give an idea of how I actually see that guarantee. The latest progress report will be in 2021. I believe that we can only conclude the programme if we also have a good answer to the question of what the follow-up looks like. That's 2021. However, I believe that the Chamber should be able to have a debate on whether this guarantee is sufficient during this period of office. This means that as early as October, in the next progress report, I would like to say something about this. So I'll come back to the ZEVMB pilots even more precisely later, but in doing so we're actually looking at the effect by pilot and how it helps. On the basis of that investigation, I believe that it will come in at the end of December. In January I would like to send you a letter on the way in which I intend to secure those ZEVMB pilots, or so I have to say, client support pilots.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that during this cabinet period we are still going to talk about securing all those pilots. Does the Minister intend to give concrete expression to what people can ultimately expect in practice in the progress report? 'Cause if you don't, it's kind of abstract. Several colleagues have asked that question. In fact, you would like people with a child with a complex disability or an intensive care question to actually notice something in the sense of: hey, I can go to that client supporter; that's where I get this kind of help. I am talking about that pragmatic, concrete level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	Exactly, but that's exactly how this program is designed. So it is exactly what you want, because that is what I like. That's one of the reasons why I always choose that programmatic work, because that's a much more direct way to do things that people also notice. If you do a pilot, it is of course aimed at a part of the target group and therefore not at everyone. That's the downside, you might say. With a legal change it applies to everyone, but the point is that laws do not immediately trigger a changed reality. This is a more direct way of steering. So you're absolutely right. In the evaluation of those pilots the effect of this form of organization of customer support really comes on a pilot basis. In the evaluation of these pilots we also make the social cost and benefit analysis, because you could say that this is much more expensive. It is a very expensive form of customer support, but if at the same time you manage to avoid all kinds of other social costs, it is nevertheless a very sensible investment for society as a whole. In any case, I assume that from the content of the client support this has a very nice added value for the people themselves, but you also have to look into the future of course how you deal more and more precisely with the human commitment. I think you could also build the reasoning line on some of those pilots that it avoids a lot of other bets. This brings a great deal of added value to society as a whole. We shall do so in a social cost-benefit analysis, which will be completed by the end of the year. I hope to send you a letter in January with the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	I would like to ask you about the same point. The Minister says "no ferocious system changes" and again out of his love for programmatic work. He says it's both quick and careful. Here's what I'm wondering. For example, there are 10 projects in this programme. Can the Minister explain what "quick and careful" looks like? Because you can't say from ten projects that they're all successful or partially successful, or that they've failed. You're gonna have to have some kind of strategy: what am I scaling up, what am I not scaling up, and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	That's right. Let us stick to the same example. Then I have to finish my general introduction and just go to the cubes, otherwise I'm always going to do something out of the cubes and then my whole sacred order gets mixed up. Mr President, I know that you also hate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	Then will you tell us which cubes you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	Do you want me to do that first? There's client support; I might as well do that right away. Complex care, so about the 100 places and how it goes with that. Innovation. To take care of the next of kin. I have made labour market and administrative burdens one block. And there's, disrespectfully, the other block because I couldn't classify the rest of it properly. First, that question, which, by the way, is justified. I am indeed saying that it gives speed and gives a concrete commitment: what are people going to notice? At the same time, it is cautious. Because a system change often brings with it many implications, as well as many unforeseen implications, that some professionals and clients suffer from rather than have been helped with. Then the on-the-longer term may be a good idea, but for the short term it can often be detrimental. The decentralisations were taken on their own as a system change a good idea, but let's not say that all the professionals, all the clients and all the parents only worked out in a good way. On the contrary. We are still actually trying to get it to land in a good way and sometimes to adjust it, because that is not always going well. So programmatic work is cautious. Client support is a very good example. The working group We see you Well went banging on the door at VWS, at my predecessor, Martin van Rijn, and said: "It's not going well. No one's gonna notice us. Laws and regulations make it sound like everything is about support, but we are simply not being helped very well. We're really on our own. I have to quit my job in order to take care of my child at all." My predecessor spoke very intensively with these parents and looked at what could be different and better. That's where the working group We do see you coming out. It has come up with five very concrete solutions that would have helped them. A policy department can then deal with this in two ways. Type laws, what we normally do. Of course, we're both co-legislators and we like to do that. But you can also look at: how could we actually do it, much faster than it is possible to get through legislation, for some of the people who are involved? Because the We see your Well target group is actually very small; it's only about 2,000 in the end. How could you actually do that much better? That's what that project came out of. When creating this program it was said: "We learn from the implementation practice how people feel helped in customer support. Can't we also do that for other groups that we know can often turn into customer support in a not so easy way?" I know I've had a discussion about that with Mrs Bergkamp. What groups would they be? Then we finally selected a number of groups where we can indeed offer client support in a different way. I have been talking very intensively recently with examples from all these groups. My lesson has been: if you are willing to set up standard customer support in a different way, then the meaning that this can have in people's lives is so much greater for the independence of people, for rest and overview in life, not only for parents but also for clients themselves, and customer support has a greater added value. Then you might want to ask yourself at some point: shouldn't we set up client support differently? We've now organised client support from four laws. We have now organized client support not only in four laws, but also at all kinds of different counters. Mrs Agema spoke about MEE. Of course, I know MEE very well. What was at least the good thing about MEE is that everyone knew MEE back then. Of course, all this has changed in the field of decentralisation. The whole care field knew MEE back then. MEE still has a fairly similar function in some regions, but in some regions there has also been a significant change in the function of MEE. With this, the overview "Which window can you contact for customer support? Oh, really changed. In short, I believe in the concrete, practical and added value of the pilot we are doing. It has a much faster effect on people and it is also much more cautious than just coming up with a law on how to organise customer support differently. But we're learning a lot from it. I think I have a number of things to do in the direction of your Chamber. We need to evaluate these pilots and present the lessons we have to draw from them to you. I think I should explain how I guarantee the pilot and the effectiveness of this client support for the group that has now participated in this pilot. But I also think that we have a more fundamental question to answer, namely: is it not wise to go to the future, learning from this pilot and also from the complexity of the window, to see if we can also shift customer support? It goes too far if I start to philosophize about this freely now, but you, Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Laan have asked me to go back to that in the outline paper. Yes, I will come back to that in the outline note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u33	Finishing at this point. The strategy of "let a thousand flowers bloom" will be completed in a while, because then we will evaluate all these pilots. Do I understand correctly that the next progress report says what the scaling-up strategy is for each pilot, or that it has been found out that we are not going to do it? Is the Minister prepared to add a paragraph saying that this is actually a hint of a possible change in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u34	A few things. For the whole of this programme I have two more progress reports to go, one this October and one in 2021. In 2021 we are now missionary. So I assume you still want to have the debate on the guarantee missionary with me. So I think I should explain in the next progress report in October how I want to deal with the guarantee. That will not be the last answer, but at least it is an answer, so that you can discuss it with me. The last answer we have to give in the latest progress report in 2021. Then to the ZEVMB pilots. They're being evaluated as pilots. That evaluation comes in... Sorry, I mean the client support pilots, where ZEVMB was the first. The evaluation will be completed in December. In January, I'm gonna write you a letter on how we handle securing that pilot's client support. Then there was a question about this way of working and what you can learn from it for the functioning of the system. We're talking about client support, with all the complexity it has right now. It is a question of simplifying, perhaps for the future too, all the points of contact that we offer to people who are looking for a place in care. We have the care meditation job of the Care Office. We have the care meditation job of the health insurance company. We have client support in the city. Well, you know it all. When we think about how to prepare our system for the future, I think client support should be a topic in it. So yes, in the contour note, I also want to address the subject of client support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u35	Short question. The Minister refers to the contour note. We all look forward to it, but I also shudder a little, given the size of the element. My specific question is whether you are going to look at the whole phenomenon that the group of people with disabilities in the Netherlands is bigger than just the people covered by the Wlz. For that is an essential point for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u36	Yeah, that's right. A number of questions have been asked about the range. Actually, I didn't answer that right. This program is actually a diptych with the program Unlimited participation!, That's a lot more about how we can get people with disabilities to participate in society. This is much more about disability care. It initially had a focus on the Wlz. When making the program, I said, because Elke(in) and VGN argued in favour of it, that it should be a bit wider in the edge, for example in customer support but also in talent development, to involve that other target group, without losing focus. When it comes to preparing for the future, which you are quite rightly making a point of, there are a number of issues relating to disability care in all sectors. The tight labour market is going to play for all sectors, including disability care. So everything that answers that in the contour note is at the same time a response to disability care. I think a number of things really apply specifically to disability care. That is, among other things, the customer support, which I would also like to draw particular attention to, including in that contour note. But I also fit in to make that contour note a kind of parking space for everything we find too difficult to think about right now. Disability care is fully involved in the general tasks that apply to all sectors, but I am not going to make all kinds of sectoral paragraphs. In everything that is sectoral about contracts for which we simply have to take a step, we need to be able to take that step now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you for that explanation. I would like to add something else. In the coalition agreement, the phenomenon of disabled disabled people is not really real. As a VVD, we would be very pleased that, as the contour note will apply for a longer period, there is specific attention to this subject, without going into it in too detail. Then we would also be very pleased, Mr Slootweg, to mention the phenomenon of technology and innovation, because it can be of added value in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u38	Absolutely, absolutely. I've taken note of the plea. So we should definitely do that. Then I think we have had the more general questions. Now I'm going to move on to the cubes. I had actually started a little bit with the block of client support and what we do in it. In fact, I think we have dealt with this so intensively by the interruptions that I have already answered most of the questions, but I will check that before I have disgruntled Members of Parliament. There was also Mrs Agema's question on which the figure of 500 is based. That's actually more based on what you can do. Indeed, that figure does not necessarily relate to the overall size of the target group in any way. We actually looked at what you could do in pilot form. That has to be big enough, so you can really learn from it, but still manageable so you can manage it, because you really have to find customer supporters for all those families. We're not quite on the 450 yet. That has everything to do with a number of pilots starting later. We'll get the 450, but we're not quite there yet. So the number is actually so chosen that you can learn from it without making the group so big that you can't man it properly. Mr Kerstens asked for specialised customer support in the field of pgb. We also serve a number of groups with this specific pilot in the Full Life programme, which is mainly aimed at the Wlz target group, although a single LVB target group with behavioural problems has been added to it. In the context of client support and the assignment given in the government agreement, we do even more things. I am referring, among other things, to the client support that has been invested in municipalities. This concerns the municipal domain and what we could do in it. We're working there with a frontrunner approach. The aim is for a large group of municipalities to work intensively and under supervision to improve that client support function locally. As a result of your request, my suggestion would be to ask for specific attention to be paid to specialised customer support in the field of pgb. Then we can add it to the municipal domain. That seems to me to be a good answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u39	That's a good start, because I understand from the field that client support, especially when it comes to pgb, is very complicated. If you want to support a client, you have to know about the hat and the edge. I actually walked forward because I wanted to ask another question. When it came to securing the results of pilots and scaling them up, we were right to take a very deep look at customer support. But, of course, there is also a pilot in the programme with regard to the greater use of experience experts. I have indicated that this seems to me to be good for the sector and for the experience experts themselves. I do not know if I have understood the Minister correctly, but it would be nice if he had said that he would say more clearly, if he were to see by the end of the programme which pilots are successful and lend himself to securing and scaling up, for example a cost-benefit analysis, he would, for example, take the pilot on the deployment of experience experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u40	Sure. With all the pilots we want to clearly indicate at the end, so in the final evaluation in 2021, how the guarantee takes place. That's the consequence of working with pilots. That is the question of several MPs. I have also indicated that 2021 is still a long way away and that you probably want to be able to debate it with a missionary cabinet. This means that, in October, in the next progress report, I will give this a state of mind so that we can also have that debate with the Chamber. In doing so, I will indeed indicate, per project, the way in which we are thinking about securing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u41	That's clear. Now the Minister and I are both eagerly looking forward to the elections, although there is, of course, plenty of work to be done before the time comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u42	No, I hope it lasts a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u43	Does the Minister also say that he will really do his utmost to reach decision-making without us in a difficult missionary situation, where we look at each other and perhaps both want something but can't?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u44	Anyway, I'd like to finish what I started myself. That's what I like to do. That is what I want in all areas, in all programmes as we started them. That won't always work. So I agree. By the way, we can make a second appointment. During this missionary period, the Court is concerned with the question of what is declared controversial and not controversial. The less controversial you explain, the longer and better we can go through with just the work. And I'm very sorry for that. So I promise now that at that time I will really not be hitting a single subject on controversiality, because I would actually prefer to spend the time as useful as possible. Because we have a lot of work to do. Mr. Chairman. Well, then we've taken care of that, too. Then I go on to the questions about the complex care. A number of questions have been asked. I indicated how we made the program. One thing we heard a lot back is that some clients have such a concern that, as Mr Van der Staaij put it, they don't fit in the booths that we have invented for them. That's a hard signal to tell, but I'm sure you'll recognize it from work visits and the conversations you're having. This is really about boxes, because we have come up withzzp's. We've come up with care profiles. Well, it's nice to have clients fit in a little bit. Of course, they never fit in completely, but it's nice to have clients fit in a little bit. But the sector is called 'disability care'. And as Mr van der Staaij rightly said: where it goes beyond the limits of disability care and actually enters the domain of psychiatry, and there are problems in combination, you can see that neither psychiatry nor disability care has the real answer to these clients. The signals come to us in a different way. That happens or in the form of casuism that ends up on our plate or through representatives of the sector, who say: we do not really have enough answers for this type of client with a question of concern across the domains. And then the next question is, what are we going to do about it? Again: you could of course type a system law. That is possible, but it is very doubtful whether that will help. So you can actually look much better at the question: how do we, on the basis of that observation, which is apparently done by so many people and which we ourselves do on the basis of the casusism that we receive, provide for that complex care question? When we made the program, it was estimated that there were 100. So the question is, where did you get that 100? That was an educated guess of the people involved. But we wanted to know more precisely, so with names and numbers, because the story about the 100 is: a tailor-made solution is needed across the domains of disability care and ggz, because that care does not exist now. He's just not here right now. It's not like it's in the wrong setting or anything. That concern doesn't really exist. So we did that inventory, with the broad field, the CCE that has a lot of experience, the care offices that are in the lead because they have the duty of care, OPaZ, and a number of institutions. With many organisations we have done the inventory and looked up to the level of names and numbers about who it is and what cannot be delivered now. Where I wrote in the latest progress report about 50 to 80 cases, we now have a group of 60 clients that turns out to be: there is no offer for that that is really appropriate. Those people are now, for example, in a disability care institution, where, above all, the misunderstood behaviour, sometimes even the aggressive behaviour, Mr Van der Staaij also gave an example of this being a reason for stress among staff and fellow clients. This is difficult for the staff, it is difficult for the fellow clients, but it is also difficult for the next of kin, because they always have to see that it is not quite a suitable place. So that place needs to be created. We've had a number of rounds by now. The health care offices have asked about which institutions put their finger on them. At first 47 health care institutions came in, but after a number of rounds of conversations it turned out to be a lot of loss, because it's a complicated job. In a tight labour market, you should actually get the honorary division of professionals together for this type of client, so get on as a healthcare provider at this time. In the end, a group of about 17 providers has been selected. At the end of this month, they are actually going to make an offer. This was done for each other in an additional purchase round between healthcare agencies and providers. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to be further informed. Just give me a chance to write a good report on it. That'll be in May. I think I can send the Chamber a progress note on this in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u45	It is very nice that the Minister is going to inform the Chamber about this. I would ask the Minister to get in touch with the sector to see what we can learn from this. The minister says it's intense for the care professionals, but it's also very intense when you have a child that can't be placed anywhere. How can you avoid situations like this? There are a number of customized workshops for a group, but there is also a group that does not fall in. It is about individuals, but does the Minister want to look closely at these two categories and what we can learn from them to prevent terrible situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u46	It is right that Mrs Bergkamp should supplement me. That group, for which there is no tailor-made place yet, which is now in a place that is sub-optimal for the care that people have, turns out to be made up of about 60 clients. Another group then found out that is not in the right place at the moment, but that, on its own, doesn't have such a complex care question on the basis of which one should say: it doesn't really fit in with disability care. But that group also needs to move to another place. That group is estimated by the health offices to be about 250 clients. This means that, in addition to creating a new place, a tailor-made place for 60 clients needs to be found for 250 other clients a different place than where they are now. It is the responsibility of the healthcare offices to ensure through care mediation that these clients are also placed in the right place. That is the second task we have. Besides, there's a job to be done. This concerns partly a comparable group of clients who, because of their care question or because the support to be provided cannot be fully provided, end up in a crisis situation. That crisis can often be avoided when you intervene earlier. This has been experimented with in two regions, and it is true that we are going to do so throughout the country, with a regionally organised crisis and support team. Both disability expertise and psychiatry are on that team. Two regions have shown that you can really prevent crisis placements. In fact, in most of the places where the deployment took place, this crisis placement has been prevented by the early deployment of some kind of firefighter's team. They don't take care entirely, but they help and support professionals on the spot and sometimes they also notice: if you add this expertise to the team, or if you choose a slightly different customer mix, then it doesn't have to go as wrong as it has gone wrong in the past few weeks. We should actually take all three of these actions. So in my follow-up letter in May, I will also report on all three actions, such as: in that project in Action Line 2, we create both those additional places, so those 60 new ones, and we provide those approximately 250 clients from another place, and create those crisis support teams. I want to have completed or almost completed all of this year's actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u47	I think that's very good. We've got eyes on the people now. My question to the Minister is: can he also indicate in the progress report what needs to be changed in practice in order to prevent people from fitting into anything? For example, the client support should also know this, and the municipalities and the healthcare offices. So my question is: how do we give it hands and feet and learn from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u48	So you are talking about the more structural lessons to be learned from this. I think that's a very good idea. This is also in line with the interrupting debate I had with Mr Renkema on October and the progress report for October. So those are the lessons and how you're going to guarantee them for the future. I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u49	As far as I am concerned, it is good work that the Minister has set out here. I would also like to ask you to include the lessons that can be learned for daily practice in improving well-being. Where people are in their place and where it actually seems to be going, but where well-being can be improved, if you recognize that there is also a psychiatric component. Does he want to watch that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u50	I think that's possible. But let me come back to that in October in the slipstream of the same question from Mrs Bergkamp, because then we will be a little further. We're mostly working on this right now. But it's true. Clients don't follow the proper system layout we've made, and luckily so. So indeed as regards being able to work across the domain by professionals and engaging in expertise from outside the domains, there are certainly lessons to be learned for the system as a whole. So that's what I'm happy to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u51	I would like to hear from the Minister what it is going to look like in practice. He says that there will be 17 healthcare providers who will have to create a new place for 60 clients. Do I have to see that they are going to create places within their own institutions, so they are going to organise care differently, so that clients get better care? Or should I see it so that in separate locations they will bring together the people with the most complex forms of care? Those are two different approaches. I wonder what that will look like in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u52	It's really about creating new places. The observation in this group is the following. With this observation from the field it has actually begun, or at least in our program, in this project. We now have clients who are not so much in the right place as there would be a good place somewhere in the system, but precisely that the care they are receiving now and which exists in the Netherlands simply does not match the care they have. So we actually need a tailor-made place, which is often found to take advantage of both the expertise of disability care and psychiatry. So it actually means that it's about new places and that it's about customized places. So these seventeen providers, the finally selected 17 providers, will indeed be funded in the healthcare offices in the sum of those new places, because that's what it's all about. In the end, the total amount of these actions is 40 million from the Wlz budgetary framework. So one action involves 60 really new places. In the end, it might also be necessary to create more places for the second action. It's about types of care that are actually already there, but which clients don't use at the moment, because they're not in the place where they can get that care. For example, we are talking about one-to-one guidance or about a client who needs such a poor environment that it is not convenient to live in a residential group with other clients who provide the incentives that always cause unrest. This does not mean that there should be such an exotic place for this, that it does not actually exist at all, but this does mean that a client is not in the right place right now. That's a group of about 250 clients. So they must also be put in a better place by means of care mediation than they are now. That's actually the second job for those same health offices. The third task is that more needs to be done to prevent crisis placement, so that you do not take clients out of their trusted environment through crisis placement. This also means that outside expertise must be flown in. So you don't always have to take clients away from the area they're in right now, to get them to the expertise they're not getting right now, but you can also bring the expertise to the clients. This is about the crisis and support teams that we have tried in two regions. They turn out to be such a good idea that we want to fight this for each other in a rural covering region. In concrete terms, I would like to implement these three actions this year. This should lead to 60 new places, 250 places for clients who are not now given proper care and the setting up of crisis and support teams.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u53	Most of all, I'm interested in those 60 places. The reason I ask for it is that I want to prevent us from getting a concentration of new locations in a particular region, which, for example, means that people come to live very far from their original place of residence. If places are created, which I think is important and good, then I think it is important that we ensure that the spread is in order. I don't know exactly which 17 organizations they are and where they are active. In Woerden we had the situation that people with disabilities had to move because there was no care available. I think it is important to ensure that the distribution of places is in order and that people do not receive care 150 kilometres away, far from their families.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u54	This has been taken into account, because this is, of course, also a wish of client organisations. It is also a wish of health care agencies, because they would like to provide themselves with the offer that corresponds to the duty of care that one has. So that spread is provided for. I will give you the point of attention as well, but that is provided for. In the direction of Mr Hijink, I would like to say that I will return to that in the May letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u55	I just want to get this straight. I myself mentioned the first group of 60. First there was 100, then it was 50 to 80. Has the programme been set up in the last period, in particular, to investigate the size of the group, or have there been 40 places already? How am I supposed to see the ratio between those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u56	The first inventory was done on the basis of this signal. An assessment was made of the amount of clients involved. Of course, it's not like a huge group isn't in the right place. That's not true. For example, when you speak to client organisations, VGN or institutions, they all know a few clients where this is the case. When I look at our own mailbox, for example from the Unit Complex Care on VWS or via the OPaZ program, we all know a number of examples in which that plays. Through the media, you also know all the names of a number of clients in which this plays. So we first did an educated guess of how many there are about. That came out: about 100. Then we started to analyse this together with care offices, asking us to just name names and numbers. In the previous report we reached 50 to 80. Now it appears to be about 60, for which new tailor-made places need to be created. But after that there will also be a group that needs a new tailor-made place. Not because this place doesn't exist yet, but because in the present place there is a mismatch between the demand for care and the supply. So these people need to be mediated to another place. That's about the 250 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u57	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. So that means that those 60 places still have to be created. So it is not the case that some of those 60 people have already been accommodated at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u58	They do have care, but in a place that isn't exactly appropriate to their question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u59	It is therefore a fairly large group, which needs a lot of care and therefore does not receive adequate care. My question to the Minister is actually the following. We have been working for quite some time now in this cabinet period, which lasts up to a year. Will the Minister ensure that these 60 places are actually realized during his period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u60	Yes, my intention is to take this year for those three actions. So that's the 60 places, the 250 people and the crisis and support service. It could be that it is running just over the next year, for example if there is also a need for construction adjustments. In any case, I hope that by the end of this month the contractual arrangements will be complete. I look at my officials in need to see if I have the data properly in my head. The institutions had to be selected before 1 March. That's what happened, and that's what turned out to be 17. I hope that the contracts will be concluded by the end of March. It could be something that goes through in the contract talks in April. So I would like to inform you in May about the state of play. I will therefore go into the timing very precisely, because I agree with you: I want to finish this myself. It was quite a complex round. In fact, an additional round of purchasing has been needed. I absolutely want to finish it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u61	We'll keep the finger on the wrist. Hopefully we will be able to find this important point at the end of the Minister's period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u62	I hope so, too. A number of questions about the profiles have been asked in relation to this. What does this even mean? Isn't this proof that those profiles aren't always appropriate? I do not know if you can put it that way at all. It could be that way. I'm not ruling that out, either. I do know that the signal that profiles are not always appropriate has been given a little longer. Mr Slootweg, Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Laan refer to the specific question whether I would like to talk to the CIZ in order to see how we can get the profiles back in line. I would like to make an intermediate step by having that conversation with the VGN and the CIZ together, before I actually give them an order. I'd be happy to change things if necessary. I say this because any adjustment that makes it more complex may later be a problem again. We're talking about thezzp's now. We are now also creating these customized places, while we know that the description of the profiles is not entirely appropriate. That is possible, however. Does the description really get in our way? That could be the case. So I'm open to that conversation, which I also like to run with the CIZ, to see what might be needed. However, I must be able to assess the implications of changing the profile descriptions of thezzPs, because they are, of course, very fundamental to the way the system works now. That's about the way you get in through the indication. The amount you then contract is again linked to a maximum rate. It's kind of drastic to change azzp for a while. I just want to understand whether it is really necessary to solve the problems that are apparently experienced as a result of the profile description.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u63	My question to the Minister is why this has not yet happened. This is not new. I understood from the VGN that there is a lot of work and there is already a lot on the shelf, like all kinds of scientific insights. They've already looked into it. Why didn't the Minister take this action proactively himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u64	In the description of the profiles the question comes to us, which has previously come to us at the rates per profile. That was part of the cost research. This led to an opinion from the NZa. I took that advice. In particular, the higherzzp's have also received a higher rate. That was then the way this problem came to us. Now the content of the profile description is apparently no longer entirely adequate and somewhat dated. Fine, then we'll talk about that too. Meanwhile, I'm just creating concrete places. That seemed even more urgent to me than to look at the description. But once again, of course, we have to keep in mind every time whether what we have written down in legislation and regulations is still in line with the implementation practice. If clients become more complex, if there is another type of care question that is just not entirely appropriate within the profile description, fine, then we'll look into it. So before I give an order to modify those profiles, I'm going to make the intermediate step of the conversation with the VGN and the CIZ to understand what the implications are, but also whether this is a real solution to the problem that they apparently have with it. Or would there be other and faster roads to Rome? So I'd like to have that conversation; that's the commitment I make. I'll just let you know in a few months how I want to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u65	To be honest, I think a few months is a little too open. This is really about scientific insights, for example that there is much more development in people with multiple complex disabilities than we used to think, including complex care. So it is important, also for people who work in care, that this is taken into account. I think it is right and I understand that the Minister says that he wants to look very carefully at the background himself. I understand an intermediate step, but I would ask the Minister not to take a few months to do so, but to inform the Chamber more quickly. When can the Minister specifically inform the Chamber of the outcome of that discussion and of his approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u66	I've been shouting "May" for a while, because I know I can't just get away without mentioning a month. I think I really need that, because maybe more than one conversation is needed. Mei would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u67	I'm gonna keep going on this one anyway. I fully understand the Minister's concern at the discussion, that he will then look at the outcome and that the outcome can indeed be an assignment. I don't think the Minister's running away from that. However, I think more structure is important. You can see that there is real development, also in the sector itself and in the profiles. I don't think it's surprising that you say: we now have a model that is based on data from 2006-2007, and that you check at times to see if that still fits. How does the Minister look at that anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u68	Yes, of course that's good to do, but let's not pretend it's not being looked at periodically. For example, I indicated that the appropriateness was put forward a number of years ago, I believe, in 2018, precisely in relation to the rates. It was said that the toughest clients in particular are getting heavier and that the rate they received at the time was no longer cost-effective in order to do it right, especially for those toughest clients. This means that, in particular, larger institutions make cross-financing between one and the otherzzp. But if you have particularly heavy care profiles, then of course it is much more complicated to do so. So then there was a cost study by the NZa and based on that cost research an opinion came. I have taken that advice, at least for disability care; for nursing care I did not move until a year later, for a number of very good reasons, which we have discussed very often here. But for disability care, I simply accepted the adjustment of rates. So that's how you periodically see if it all fits. Now this same discussion comes along a more substantive line: does the description of the profile still fit? It's not like we didn't do anything about it. I just mentioned everything we do about the complex care. This is actually about the exact same phenomenon; only then not by the way of the profile description, but by the way of reality, namely whether the places actually match what the clients need. So I'm very open to this discussion, because I do think that you need to keep reviewing periodically. But you always have to face the implications of a change to that. The care packages in the Wlz are such a basic phenomenon of how we organized the care, because it is relevant for the indication, relevant for the pricing, for the contracting and also for the organisation of what organisations focus on. So you always have to think carefully about what the implications might be of a change in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you. I hear that in the past there has actually been more along the tarification line. The Minister said it a few times, but I think it is really important to note that, of course, it can always be the case that these models and profiles do not look after everyone. Eventually, it can be seen that a particular group cannot be placed in any box, while money is needed to catch those people. Do I understand correctly that you can then, so to speak, still work with a kind of outside category, where you look at how to do it because they don't fit in a box?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u70	That has actually already been done with the tailor-made scheme on top of thezzp's, with the additional cost scheme. Even that actually exists. My experience is that our wonderful system of care, partly because of the many debates in the Chamber, has a wonderful system of roads and goat paths and new possibilities and exceptions and subsidy schemes that it is almost impossible to think of anything that does not yet exist. In any case, it is very difficult to maintain that things could not be arranged because there would be no funding for it. For almost all the beauty we would like to achieve, funding is. Much harder it is to organize human power or executive power to actually accomplish things, but money is very rarely an obstacle in our beautiful work in our beautiful care. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions about this theme, and then I'm going back to the next block. The Support Appropriate Care Supply programme, OPAZ, has been in existence for some time now. Mr Van der Staaij's question is: has this actually already paid off? Yes. The tailor-made work that we are now creating, actually that second line of action, has been achieved partly on the basis of the observations made in that programme. The programme was also set up for this purpose. The program started several years ago because complex care questions came into the department. Policy officials of the department started working on this and wondered why the policy didn't fit in with the practice there, why it didn't come about automatically or why it was so difficult for certain parents or relatives to find the support they needed. It then examined what the region in question should learn from the case in question. For example, it has always been considered how one could deal with this, precisely because of the learning effect one wanted to bring about, regardless of the solution in the case itself. That started very small, but in the meantime we in the department actually have a unit for complex care questions for all sectors, which are often in my portfolio. That is how we want to get to work in this learning way. We want to help the client himself, who is apparently hit between shore and ship and sent from the cabinet to the wall, and we also want to see what that means for daily execution practice. You asked me a question in the budgetary procedure about the case-law of the Court of Justice. Then I promised to send you a letter. I sent it a few weeks ago. In it we have written all the way in which we learn from individual casusism. Sometimes an individual case is just an individual case. Then we'll just help solve it. We are helping those responsible for the solution to actually achieve the solution and we are sticking to it until it is resolved. Sometimes a lot of questions come in. That happened, for example, around aids. Then you know that it is not an individual case that asks for a solution, but that there are a number of things that are structurally not good. That is where we set up a team that draws lessons from this which should then lead to a structural improvement in implementation practice. For example, we have made all kinds of agreements with municipalities, the tool industry and 30 other organisations to ensure that this implementation practice would simply improve. In the complex care, the second line of action of this programme has actually become the policy translation of what we have observed, among other things, from OPAZ. This is how we always try to deal with casuism. That's a bit of a change of attitude from the department. Previously, we were more inclined to say as a department: we are responsible for the system, the system must function and those who have been given responsibility in that system must also fulfil that responsibility. Now we have made more of a choice to see that individual casuism as a lesson about things where things are not going well. That is not only an opportunity for us to help someone who we also very much like to do individually but also an opportunity to improve it for all the others, who are actually in the same situation. That way we actually want to get to work on it and get to work, no matter how difficult and tough it is sometimes. Especially when it comes to the care that is invested in municipalities, it is of course very difficult to think of a measure that will then have an effect in all municipalities. So in the direction it is sometimes somewhat indirect, but we try to see on a case-by-case basis how this could lead to a structural improvement in our care in the Netherlands. For example, in the last year we had about 350 cases, partly via my mailbox, partly via Twitter, partly via Facebook and partly through Members of Parliament who mail me with the question if I could help with a case. Last year there were about 350. There may be more this year, because the more I say this, the more the business gets bigger. I don't mind if we can still fulfil the responsibility we get. Because there are now dozens of people working on this casuism, also in the department. I like that, because we're learning a lot from it and we're helping a lot of people with it, but we need to keep manning it. Mr. Chairman. With that, I've finished this block and I'm going to the block of innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u71	If I may congratulate you on ending this block, I would like to make a point of order. You've been talking for an hour, we've done two cubes and we've got four more cubes to go. That would mean you're still talking for two hours. Then we get the second term of the Chamber and from you. Then we already go reasonably towards the dinner break. You can see on the schedule that we are still working on care all day long, so care is well dealt with today in the plenary. But if we go on like this, we're gonna have a big problem timewise. I therefore urge you to make the next four blocks short and pointy, because we will have to vote here, in this humble room. So please be pointy, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you for this encouragement, Mr President. I was also impressed by the content of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u73	I noticed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u74	I'll try to control myself. Mr. Chairman. Then we go to the block of innovation. I'll try to do that tight and pointy. Especially VVD and D66 asked for that and that is extremely consistent, because that has been happening for a while. That has also led to an amendment. I am also trying to implement that amendment faithfully. In my view, that leads to exactly what you asked for. Because I seem to remember that it was your intention to give innovation a boost, to give innovation a huge push. That is why you felt that the amount initially included in the programme budget was insufficient and you amended it in order to make more of it. There is now an innovation impulse of about 15 million in total. I remember Mrs Hermans, and I think Mrs Bergkamp was of the same opinion, who said that it is not so much a question of constantly thinking about new things, but of using and scaling up what has already been developed in terms of innovative answers in e-health, digitisation, home automation within organisations and using this innovation impulse. That's exactly what it's designed to be. So in the end, it's about about 30 providers. This selection has been made in a number of rounds, also in order to make the plans good enough and not to make it more of the same but to actually bring about innovation that has been conceived elsewhere and then to implement it wider in the sector. This includes, for example, technology that provides more day structure for people with NAH or technology that ensures that people sleep better or that the unrest decreases. Even socks have been developed that signal aggression when it comes, so that people can intervene on time. All that type of e-health and home automation helps us in a great way to improve the quality of care and just make it better for employees in care. In short, my idea was to be honest with you, but I'd like to be corrected... that this was exactly what you expected from that innovation impulse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u75	I have two brief questions. One. One element at the time was that there would be co-financing from society, so that you get a multiplier effect of the amount the government invests. A nice example of this is seen in sport. Sportinnovator is an organization working on this. Then you get money from outside and from the government; that is literally a win-win situation. What is the status of cofinancing on this issue? Two. Are the fine ideas that the Minister now mentions to be found on a website? I'll just mention some.. so that people who like to be innovative can find things? It would also be easier for the citizens and the staff in the care sector to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u76	The innovation impulse is designed from Vilans and Academy Het Dorp. They've been working on innovation for years, and they all have great test settings. They already fulfil that function in practice. Those two clubs shape the innovation impulse, so it can only be that all these examples can be found on the Vilans site, the knowledge centre for disability care and care for the elderly, and in any case for Wlz care. I think all such examples are also on the website of Zorg van Nu. I think those two sites are the homebase, but let me come back to that in the second term. All these innovative examples are there. I myself know now's care well. That is indeed a very informative site, which offers all these examples. Two. Indeed, I know that the amendment provided for a partnership between a healthcare office, a care institution and a developer. However, I do not think that the latter variant has proved to be practical in all respects because of state aid. At the same time, most innovative innovation is almost always achieved by a market developer who comes up with a good idea. So that is often a cooperation. I have to see exactly if this is always the case with these examples, with the 30 that are now working on them. I'm gonna have to take a look at that. In my view, there was a problem with the grant conditions as we formulated them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u77	Specifically, I make the suggestion to the Minister to look through VWS and ZonMw at investing in Sportinnovator, where we also ran into this kind of thing. I happen to have been part of that in the past. These government subsidies make it possible to invest with the business community, so your scope and reach can be much larger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u78	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u79	It will not be surprising that I agree with what Mrs Laan has said on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u80	A bit of liberal cooperation after yesterday's left-wing cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u81	That's right. But what I would really like to know is this. The aim of the amendment was to implement fine examples in many organisations. I'd like to have a little more insight into that. Perhaps the Minister could give a broader picture of this in the next progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u82	Yes. In the previous progress report I wrote about the monitor at this point, the monitor of the innovation impulse. In that we have described exactly that we are actually going to capture the extent of the impact of the innovation impulse, so that becomes part of the monitor. That's what you get. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to Mr Slootweg's question. He says: why can healthcare providers not actually get a grant from RVO? This does not really have much to do with RVO, but especially with the person who orders and invests the subsidy scheme at RVO. In our incentive scheme Living and Care to help municipalities and housing corporations to support themselves in new forms of housing care, for example, we arrange that those who need to make use of the scheme can actually make use of the scheme. You can't say generically that RVO is never accessible to healthcare institutions. It depends very much on the arrangement, on how it was conceived and by whom it was conceived. However, it is often the case that RVO mainly carries out arrangements from the EZ domain. That's right. But there are also a number of exceptions to this, for example with the health deal. RVO already supports this. Then it will be accessible to new technologies, including those to be used by healthcare providers. It therefore depends very much on the scheme and the purpose for which it was ordered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u83	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. So the fact that the health care institution is active in disability care can never be a reason for exclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u84	I am not saying that, because it may be a reason for access, for example if the Minister of EZK has decided that a certain support scheme is intended for ICT developers. Then that will be the purpose of the support scheme. If you are not an ICT developer, you will indeed not be able to subscribe to such a scheme. That may be the case sometimes, but I meant more of the following. You asked if it was true that RVO is never accessible for this purpose. This is not generic, but it is often the case with individual schemes that are invested there. VWS also occasionally invests in the implementation of a scheme at RVO. It then depends entirely on the objective of the subsidy scheme, who gives you access to it. So it's not generic that it can never happen when it's invested in RVO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u85	But when it comes to innovation and technology that you can use very well, the medical sector with everything that is being developed in the Netherlands is very interesting. I am therefore curious whether there is any possibility of developing a more open attitude from EZK to that. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u86	That is quite right, but that is of course what is happening. The medical sector is indeed a very large sector, with an incredible amount of money and a huge social interest. This also makes investment in technological developments in the medical sector very important. Of course, there are a lot of possibilities for that. That is what is happening, and that is being strongly encouraged. I thought you had debates on this with Mr Bruins. The way in which we deal with this is actually more within his portfolio. The same applies to the question of how we also support technology and innovation in structural terms. I'm going to say something else about that too. Innovation is all too often thought of in terms of a scheme, a subsidy scheme, which is provided at the top of the regular rate. I hear that too often from health care institutions. We've had that conversation before, for example, when it comes to nursing care. But in particular, the rates that apply to the heavierzzp's are sometimes already going through the barrel. Sometimes it's around the barrel. Sometimes it's $80,000. Those are huge amounts of money. Even if you as an institution would only reserve a few percent of that for the implementation of e-health, home automation and so on, you've already won a world. There is, however, a point where the healthcare sector really has to learn from other sectors. In particular, the healthcare sector is the sector where innovation always leads to higher costs. Why should that be? Innovation that is labour-saving is, after all, going to be the innovation that we must have most of in the next period of the programme, which should lead to lower costs. So there must also be an interest for employers and institutions to choose precisely for innovations that also lead to lower costs, I would think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u88	No, I've heard you twice, Mr. Slootweg. Can we get to the next block, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u89	Sure. I'm sure you can. It's about caring for the next of kin. I'm gonna leave out all the introductory texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u90	You can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u91	See? I knew that would be a compliment from the chairman. I shall go straight to Mr Van der Staaij's question. He said that sometimes it's kind of hard to arrange recess care or sleepover care for kids. That's right. I recognize that too, for example from the ZEVMB group. Those parents say: that is almost impossible for us, because try to find a place that can get away with our child. I understand that, too. Learning from that ZEVMB group we are looking at how we can better discuss this with healthcare offices. Because, in fact, grace care should be and should be part of Wlz care. So we are trying to stimulate this, if necessary in pgb form, but that is not easy. I am not going to present an easy solution here either, because this is not easy. What we have made possible is the possibility of part-time residence. It was very complex to arrange that. As of January 1st, that is possible. That's about bigger clients. Then this can be a solution to combine living at home with staying in an institution. Especially if it has a certain frequency, for example if a child is at home during the week but stays in an institution once every two weeks, for example a weekend, also in order to relieve the burden on parents, then that was previously complicated to settle. Because then an indication had to be changed and so on. You don't have to do that anymore. Now that can just walk along in the same indication. So that does not give rise to any additional administrative burden. The financial regulation is therefore adequate, but of course it is often the case for these parents: this financial regulation is fine and it is nice that it can all be done under the law, but there must also be a place that creates this in practice. That's where the care office really comes in. So what we really want to do is to look at the results of these ZEVMB pilots and see what we have to discuss with healthcare offices on this point. Then the bushes. Mrs Agema asks: how are you going to deal with this little brother and sister initiative, with that bussing initiative? That's an initiative of the Kid and Hospital organization. I'm in agreement with the Kid and Hospital organization to teach bruses, also to help each other. I would actually like to ask Mrs Agema the following. I understand the suggestion and the question. I intend to send you a letter on that subject in April. As I recently wrote a somewhat in-depth letter on the subject of complex care and how we achieve those places, I would also like to send a rather in-depth letter on that third line of action, the line of action of caring for relatives, about what we are doing. Because that is now a little more than we intended to do at the start of the programme. I think I'm gonna send you that letter in a month or two months. I would also like to go into this section, this initiative, in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u92	On all the subjects that I can deal with on behalf of my group, I notice that I get relatively many letters from people who have really fallen into a 'from the box to the wall' situation. Earlier in my contribution I mentioned MEE. I heard the Minister say earlier in the debate that a lot of things are missing. Maybe he can go into that in that letter too, because it seemed to me that with the Wmo 2015 we have also laid down in the law that the municipalities should organise customer support. So I'm kind of wondering what's going on here. How can these organizations, which are actually very important to a lot of people, disappear, while at the same time we have legally regulated that client support should be there? I would also very much like to read more about that in that letter, because I thought that was rather strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u93	I have to think if I'm going to do that in the same letter, but of course we are also doing a lot of things in the area of customer support for that very reason. I'm going to turn the film of this debate back to maybe an hour ago. That's when it was all about this. Then I said that MEE used to be the organisation that did its client support work all over the Netherlands. This was, of course, true for part of the target group. That's true, but for the vb or lvb target group, MEE was always just the client support club. In the decentralisation of 2015, the mandate to regulate independent customer support was given to the municipalities. You have done all the debates, so you know all the debates very well. That was actually an assignment to the municipalities. There was no obligation to organise that at MEE. The idea behind that change was that you should actually drop the order to organize customer support to the same party that also has the order to organise the care. That is consistent in itself, because that is what you see in the system as a whole. You can see that in the municipalities, but also in the Zvw. There, health insurers also have a client-intermediate role and the care offices also have a client-intermediate role. That's not so crazy thought from the system. But on the client's side, it means quite often that you can't find the window where you should have signed up for customer support. What I have learned in this, but also in those same letters and e-mails as you get them, is that I actually want to rethink how we organized our customer support. That is what I just said in the direction of Mrs Laan and Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Renkema, that I think your client support might need to be organised more from the point of view of clients rather than from the logic of the system. It is quite logical in terms of system; I understand that the laws have been adopted as they have been established. But from the point of view of clients, I note that windows are often not found to be good enough, and I note that the customer support available is not always appropriate to what clients need. I would like to get to work on that, and I will come back to that in the outline note that we have announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u94	Okay. Well, then I note that we are making the same observation. And if you're on the same page, at least you're on the road in this house a long way, I guess. But I still think it's a strange story. In article 2.2.4, we have arranged for municipalities to arrange customer support. Then I find it strange that these MEE organizations just disappear. We all remember that orange logo, at least that's on our retina. The problem of parents who do not find their way when it comes to customer support is obvious. I would like to hear from that letter not only more, but also what is going on with that nationwide network. We thought we had arranged that here in the Lower House. And yet we are constantly dealing with parents who do not know the way, while they are dealing with the municipality, who are dealing with the general practitioners, are dealing with pediatricians. That was also my suggestion, to bring to their attention that there are indeed organisations, and also legal obligations for municipalities to support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u95	Absolutely. No, so it is not the legal obligation; there are those legal obligations. There is also real work in every municipality on customer support. At the same time, municipalities and municipalities are seeing that I am only talking about the municipal domain of the municipality itself, and that it really can do better, that the accessibility and the findability of the customer support can really be improved. I hear that especially from client organisations themselves and I see that in the reactions I get myself or on social media, but mostly just in letters. I think: well, the content of client support can really be different. And that's what I learned most in the pilots client support that are also in this program. I see you, if you're also willing to read the content of the client support differently, so really read different than before... And this isn't back to the past or anything, but it's really a new form of client support that is much more intense and much more, as the ZEVMB target group calls it, operates as a copilot in a family. If you do it that way, it will actually lead to better support for families in terms of content. Well, from all these lessons together, I'd like to draw the conclusion that, in the future, too, I think we have something really fundamental to do when it comes to customer support. But I am also cautious, as I say in the direction of Mr Renkema, because if I am going to do something wild, and I cannot see what the consequences are, then I do not know if I am really helping parents and clients very much. So what I want to do is two things. Earlier, I wrote you a letter in which I gave you an overview of all the activities we do in the field of customer support, as a performance of the mandate from the government agreement. This is partly aimed at this programme of Full Life, partly at supporting municipalities through a leading approach and so on. I wrote you a letter earlier about the approach to client support in this cabinet period. I'd like to write you a next progress letter on this, just to show you what we're all doing in all those areas to improve customer support. In addition, as announced in Mrs Laan's outline note, I will go back to what I would like to improve in terms of the system of customer support in order to make this even better in the future. And then, of course, you'd like to know when I finished that letter. I think I have to promise you that I will return to this in the second term, although I already have the suggestion to say: at least before the summer. Then we can have the debate on customer support in a good way. The administrative burden for relatives is high. What has already been done to reduce the administrative burden? This has to do with everything we do in the context of the ZEVMB pilot. This also has to do with the different organisation of the multi-care scheme. I informed you about this earlier; I thought I informed you about it in the middle of last year. We do a number of things, because administrative burdens are really not limited to professionals only. Parents certainly also have to deal with all kinds of administrative burdens. Sometimes it has to do with duplications in the indications that are repeatedly asked for. Then we'll have to suck it. I can do that, but one step at a time. Sometimes it has to do with the application of schemes, for example the multi-cost scheme. My lesson from the pilot ZEVMB is next. It's nice that we made all that support possible legally and financially, but especially in care-intensive families where a lot of support comes together, parents really need support to get to the application of all those things. Therefore, customer support in ZEVMB families is more of a copilot in the family, as they call it, to take this part out of their hands. That works and that helps. This is very exculpatory, including as regards administrative burdens. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to move on to the labour market block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr Renkema briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u97	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I still missed an answer to the question about municipalities that do not always offer grace care from the Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u98	Yes, we have, of course, discussed this earlier on the basis of Mrs Ross-van Dorp's opinion. It has given us an opinion on improving grace and access to grace care. I thought Mrs Bergkamp was asking me about that very thoroughly. I said: shall we combine this advice and MantelzorgNL's plea to see what we could do better than we have done so far in the care sector? Grace care comes with that, too. It's not like municipalities don't do anything, not at all. But there are actually a few problems, namely that grace care does not always match demand and that the quality of grace care is not always such that everyone can make use of it. This certainly applies, for example, to the target group of children with disabilities. Recession care is not always easy to find, after which the client and the provider of the same grace care find that there is apparently less demand for it than was previously thought. There was that demand, but it didn't end up with the offer. So we really need to get to work on how to improve all this, with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u99	When will we, as a Chamber, hear about the follow-up to that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u100	I thought I'd already promised it was gonna be May, but I'm gonna have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u101	Next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u102	The labour market. Speaking of consistency. Mr Kerstens refers to the labour market as an important issue, of course for the disabled. That is quite right, quite right. I also wholeheartedly agree with him. We must, of course, be careful, especially in disability care, to lose the dedicated people that characterize the disabled sector. Now it is a sector where employee satisfaction is highest in all sectors. It is also a sector that is an example in conservation for other sectors. I think palliative care is number one, but disability care is very close to that in terms of conservation. This has everything to do with the atmosphere of working in an average disability care institution. I ask a lot of times when I'm on a job visit, how long have you been working here? Especially in disability care I hear so many times: just, since I started working. Also at the same institution. I think disability care should hold on to that. I'm less gloomy about being a good employer. I see very good employers in the disabled sector, but yes, it is also tight there. The point is, therefore, that there is a combination with the complex care and the complex care demand that if the workload increases, if the administrative burden increases, if the feeling among employees about the care demand of complex clients is "I don't know if I can cope with it and if I can deal with that misunderstood behavior" and then because of job vacancies there is too little room for education and professionalisation... Well, et cetera, et cetera. You can draw it out like this: then the spiral finally goes down. Then we won't hold them. In the end, we don't hold employees when we need them so incredibly. In short, there is work to be done. What we are doing anyway is all we are doing within the framework of the Work in Care Action Programme. You know that. I'm not gonna repeat all that. In addition, we have organised an extra table with disability care, to see what extra we should do for disability care. I suggest that I simply share what comes out of initiatives with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u103	I think the latter would be fine. Indeed, we are not going to have the whole debate on the labour market in healthcare again. I'm sure there will be other opportunities for that. I was particularly curious to see what this labour market situation in disability care is doing with the objectives of the programme aimed at increasing professionalism and craftsmanship. I wonder whether it turns out that the conditions under which people have to do their jobs hinder them from being met. Is there anything to say about that? Or maybe it's too soon? Maybe the Minister also thinks: that's not so bad, because people stay long and walk away less quickly, so it doesn't get in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u104	I'm not going to be trivial about that, because I understand your observation very well. I was just giving a bit of a sketch of how it might go if we didn't pay attention to this. Then there could be a negative spiral that is obviously playing at a few institutions of workers who feel that they are running over the shoes. They see that the vacancy for a colleague they really need to be a strong team that can cope with those sweet, yet very complicated clients that they can take care of every day is becoming increasingly difficult to fulfill. If you don't act properly, or if you hire clients as an institution, give you a place that you're not really up to, the downside of that may indeed end up with the employees. Then that negative spiral can begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u105	A very short follow-up question with regard to that specific objective, increasing the craftsmanship of people. We're gonna monitor and evaluate this anyway. Would it then be a suggestion to visualize the interaction with the circumstances in which people have to do their work, to see if they are obstructive or not? I told you to ask a lot of people. We've been doing that every day, but of course you can't ask them to do the impossible. I'm so curious if one thing is frustrating what we want. One is the labour market situation. Does it frustrate what we all think is necessary, namely the enlargement and the restoration of craftsmanship?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u106	Yeah, there's an interaction there. So the answer to the question of whether I want to include this in the evaluation is yes anyway. But I think this is going to be more and more widespread at all. Mrs Laan, in particular, but also Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Ellemeet have always been calling me to this debate on how we should organise our concerns towards the future. Why do I think this is so right and why is it so necessary for us to have this debate? That's what this is all about. If we look at care now, and this is certainly true of disability care, we can see that accessibility is high, affordability is good and quality is high, especially if you compare this internationally and especially if you take those three indicators together. That's all because of the 1.2 million dedicated people who want to work in healthcare. But if we don't think early about how we're gonna organise our care differently, how we're gonna make much more use of labor-saving innovation, how we're gonna actually incorporate prevention into our system much more than it has to do with this kind of care, but of course you're gonna end up with a care sector that's just overasked and overburdened. You can only handle what you can handle. You can ask a lot of people. We do that every day with the people who work in care, but if we start asking people about structural issues, we are going to set in motion a negative spiral that we cannot afford at all. In short, I think your observation is quite right. I am going to involve them in any way, but I also use her as an additional motivation to really dare to think fundamentally with each other, even though we may find that exciting, about how we organized our care. 'Cause if we don't put other things in there, it's gonna go wild. I think that Mr Slootweg is now quite in a risky environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u107	He'll have to be quarantined for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u108	I would indeed like to ask the President whether he considers a quarantine measure necessary here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u109	I'll have him removed. Then to the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yes, Mrs. Agema won't let a little corona scare her off. No way. Take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u111	Unfortunately, because of my condition, I've been allergic since 2012. I've been sneezing since then, but I'm not contagious because of some kind of disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u112	But do you sneez in your elbow? I have to ask the same question on behalf of Mr Bruins. In a tissue? That's okay, then. A paper handkerchief. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the administrative burden that goes with this. The administrative burden is an important dissatisfier. Some of you have asked what we are doing in this area. Within the framework of (Ont) Regulal de Zorg, we are fully committed to reducing the administrative burden, including for disability care. That's actually a combination of what institutions themselves can do... My old schoolmaster taught me that if you hear any noise in the classroom, you always have to be quiet and the noise will stop. Look at this. It's still working. Where was I? Yes, by (Ont) Rule of Care. So that is our programmed approach to administrative burdens. The same applies to disability care. So we are trying to combine that with this programme. This means that you get to work at locations as much as possible, because we know that a lot of rules do not need to be inspected at all, not even from the health insurance companies and not even from the department or from laws that we have established here. Those rules "happen" simply in institutions and between institutions but also between institutions and healthcare offices. As a kind of self-riding baking flour, we all suddenly have things that people think they should stick to, but it turns out they're just made up by people who can abolish them again tomorrow. Often they are designed for a good reason but often you can better abolish them for an even better reason. And that's what we're doing. We do this in institutions themselves. Whatever I can take on my own, I have to do. For example, it is about signatures when changing the Health Life Plan. They won't be necessary anymore. The Meerzorg scheme has been simplified. The InZicht scheme encourages standardisation in digitisation and data exchange. In the experiment Anders Veraccounten, a number of providers are working on simplifying external accountability with the NZa and healthcare offices. In short, we do a lot. And does that work? In the sector as a whole, the polite regulatory pressure is not actually falling sufficiently, which must be the result I really want to achieve. There are also very large differences between institutions. So in the Berenschot monitor with that high number of administrative burdens, you see life-size differences between institutions. It is striking that this is particularly the case in disability care and nursing care, so mostly in the Wlz. These are institutions that, so to speak, paraphrase, say, 'I don't understand what you're talking about, administrative burdens, because we have almost no problem with them', to institutions that say, 'I don't notice at all what would have been reduced in recent years, because I am up to my ears in the administrative burden'. They're both common. This learning from each other how to do your job with much less administrative burden within the same legislative framework, we really need to do it. That is what we are going to do, and I will report to you on it. Then there's the question about reporting incidents. That's from sessions. Then, of course, I say: well, try to think of a measure that the legislator, The Hague, has devised for you and what is bothering you, and then I will explain to you that the first ten things you are about to mention are not from us but from you. In fact, the example of incident reporting is mentioned at regular intervals. That's right. There's an obligation to report incidents. It's deletion or comprehension. The reporting of incidents is indeed a legal obligation because otherwise risk-based supervision will no longer work. So if we stopped reporting incidents, I won't have an answer anymore if the Chamber that has to check me asks me if the inspection is actually going to visit those places where it is most needed. Then I am inclined to say: yes, because we know risk-oriented supervision and risk-oriented supervision has a risk selection model in which a risk selection is indeed made based on signals and reports to the LMZ and on emergency reports from institutions themselves, which makes it clear: here I have to get to work. Let me give you an example. Suppose it's about aggressive behavior of people who actually have a psychiatric disorder, but who are in a disability institution. Suppose one encounters a fellow client or a staff member, that is a reportable calamity. If this happens more than once in a year, for example a few times a month, then I also agree that the inspection involves this in its risk-based monitoring. I also think that this institution should indeed report this and that this could be a reason for the inspection to ask whether the educational environment or the care there is really tailored, given the scale of the question of care and the complexity of the question of care. In short, I understand that a disaster report entails administrative burdens, but it is for a good reason. There are a lot of institutions that have to do the same calamities reports, but they don't notice anything about them. Why not? Because there is a quality employee from, for example, the central agency that makes this type of emergency reports for employees, so that employees themselves have no administrative burden. That's possible, too. So it also depends on how it is regulated by an institution. Mr. Chairman. Then I have also had the block of labour markets and administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u113	Well... Mr Van der Staaij feels differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u114	He doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u115	I can follow what the minister said a long way. He started with the words "it's deletion or comprehension." What struck me is that it was also said: you never hear anything back. You make that call and there's no feedback. It could also help if people feel in some way that they don't just do it in front of the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u116	That they don't do it for the idea box. Yeah, I get that. Let me give that suggestion to the inspection. I'll ask her: do you think about it that any feedback can be practical?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u117	Does the Minister still address the questions that have been asked about the regulatory burden arising from the Health and Force Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u118	That's in my block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u119	There's everything in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u120	The disrespectful but well-intentioned category of 'other', which I could have also called 'varia'. This includes, among other things, the Law on care and compulsion. Let me start with that more. Let's see if we can do that. Well, then, of course, I must be able to find it. We've treated each other the Law of care and compulsion. That was the first law I was allowed to deal with in the First Chamber. That was a legislative process of nine years, and it had to come to a conclusion once in a while, although there was a lot of discussion about it until the First Chamber. On the basis of that discussion and on the basis of the will to minimise administrative burdens, I announced a number of further amendments in the First Chamber when examining that law. They were then discussed again in the House of Representatives. I also told you that professionals are very keen against the introduction of the Health and Force Act. That's not because they're against it, because they all think the thought behind the Law care and coercion is very good. However, it is felt that the time available until the actual entry into force is actually too short to be fully prepared, and there is much more to be done. Then, in consultation with your Chamber, I opted for a transitional year. We have also talked about the organisation of the transitional year. I also told you that in that transitional year there will be many things that we have not yet fully foreseen. We've made a whole plan of what we're all going to do in that transition year. There are all kinds of meetings in the country, there's a help desk set up, it's organized by industry organisation and so on. To make sure that Law lands care and coercion properly. But you now also see a number of signals coming back from time to time in the implementation practice. These signals sometimes have to do with administrative burdens. It is actually said: now I am introducing this, but what is the point, because it is all an extra administrative burden. Sometimes there is a point there, but then I can say: look how that institution introduces it. The vanguard of disability care institutions says: the way in which the Health and Force Act works has long been our practice; that is, in fact, our way of working. So it is not true that all the institutions are grumbling, but some indeed are. In part of the observations of the administrative burden, you can say: look how they do it. But, of course, that's the conversation you need to have. Sometimes people ask: Why do I have to re-evaluate the care plan after so many months? And why should I involve those outsiders in the evaluation of the measure taken under the Care and Force Act? Sometimes, when I think back to the discussions we have had here in the house, that has just a legal background. The legislator has said: the Care and Force Act must ensure that there is also a real consideration as to whether a measure of involuntary care, which must be kept to a minimum, is actually necessary. So something for an institution can feel like an administrative burden. I can really understand that, indeed, especially in the multitude of things those institutions have to do. But by the legislator, by us here, and certainly in combination with the First Chamber, it is meant in all seriousness, because it is also wise to have an external look at it occasionally. You actually do that from the legal certainty and legal protection of the client. That is what many discussions are about at the moment when it comes to implementation. If I see reason to be convinced by the field and think, "Yes, if I had been here on this work visit with the Chamber, they would have found the same thing," then I will not fail to come up with a proposal in the direction of your Chamber for an amendment of the law. But I think it is most important to see whether we can simply find a practical, pragmatic solution for implementation practice, such as a number of institutions that have actually already found the most administrative burden arising from implementation practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u121	Does the Minister consider a change of law, looking at the rule pressure? From the First Chamber this was almost a requirement: guard that rule pressure. Wherever it takes, it's fine. Another question is: is the Minister prepared to consult with, for example, VGN and the inspection to see what is really unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u122	I'm in consultation with VGN and the inspection. For example, I have been talking to VGN and the inspection at Philadelphia, which has given me a number of concrete examples of where the law, in their words, has gone through the demands. We've established that law with each other in our right mind. Of course, it is always good to introduce these with open eyes and see what you can actually shape in the implementation practice. And where has the law perhaps been too tight and have the administrative burdens that result from it really not been the intention at all? I would also like to insist on the practice that most administrative burdens arise not from laws, but from the way they are implemented. If we're the culprits, then I'm gonna have to move. So the answer is yes. If necessary, I will come up with a number of proposals. It concerns, for example, the provision of information to the inspection at client level, which is simply due to a data-processing basis that is lacking in the law. That's one of them. It is also about the requirement of the double statement of the doctor and the provider for a forced admission. This really seems to be an unnecessary administrative burden arising from the law. Another example is the requirement that the medical certificate should only be issued by a doctor who does not work with the supplier. That has all been well-meant, but it does lead to fuss in the implementation practice. Those are examples I was given when I was on a job visit. But my answer is simply yes: if it is necessary, I will indeed come up with a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thank you. When does the Minister intend to inform the Chamber of the outcome of the talks? And can he indicate when the regulatory pressure is too high and what the approach is? That would be very nice. We also have a technical briefing and a number of steps in mind as a Chamber, so it would be nice if that could be sent to the Chamber a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u124	Yes. It's gonna be May. May's gonna be a beautiful month. I wish May had been, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u125	Very good. It's gonna be a busy month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u126	Then there's communication. What can I do to improve communication? We're communicating silly, I'd almost like to say. On compulsionindezorg.nl you can find all the manuals that have been made. There have been endless regional meetings, involving 2,800 professionals, and a help desk has been set up. Healthcare providers have been working very intensively with their staff. So I think there's a lot of communication going on. But I am also very happy that we have chosen that year of transition, that year of introduction, because it is really too tight to expect a 100% execution at once. We are immediately getting started with all the signals we get from implementation practices where things aren't working out well. Recently, there was another signal about ggz crisis services to see what's going on. Sometimes we have to look into something to get a better picture. For example, the signals about the crisis services were rather contradictory. But we have been working on it to see if we can actually use the transition year as much as we have meant it, namely for learning, implementing and also for the impact test of the law with the practice. If that law is too tight, I will return to you to make a few more changes. It is nice that this is also the attitude of the Chamber, because this helps very much to implement the law properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u127	Can we get to the second term yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u128	No, because I was at the other block. I started with the Wzd questions there. I promised. Then I will continue with the first-line care for people with disabilities and with Mrs... I can't read her name properly. It's a beautiful handwriting, you know. That's not the point. But I can't read it properly. You mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u129	Heutmekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u130	Heutmekers. Exactly. That could be what it says. That's a profit from academic workshops. We know the dissertation, but we are also talking to the author to see what this means for improving medical-generalistic care. There a covenant is now concluded between VGN, LHV, Ineen, NVAVG and ZN. Of course, I wholeheartedly support this covenant. This agreement is also the answer to Mr Slootweg's question. He asked if it's actually been taken care of by now. There hasn't been any letters of termination or anything like that. That was the message, but that wasn't the danger. There was, however, a threat of termination of general practitioners' posts for agreements for medical care in the evening, night and weekends. That is really problematic, because for about half of the patients with a Wlz indication, medical care is not through the institution, but through the general practitioner. So that's really problematic. I've also kind of seen it as a signal of concern from the general practitioners. The providers of disability care do realise, thanks to this signal, that together with the general practitioners, they need to look more closely at the conditions and conditions under which the general practitioners can provide their general practitioner care to, for example, small-scale Wlz locations. I sent you a progress letter on 20 December. It clarifies what is happening at this point and what agreements have been made between the various trade associations to ensure that access to general care is simply organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u131	Now do I understand there's going to be a covenant? If so, could we at some point receive this as a Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u132	Yes, of course I'd like to admit it. Then Mr Hijink asked a question about resources. I have also sent a very comprehensive letter on this subject. I think it is a little far-reaching in the context of this debate to make that quite clear. I have made agreements with some 50 parties, the most important of which are, of course, the municipalities, the aid providers and the client organisations, in response to signals coming into our department, which we received through the cash register programme, on what should be done better with regard to the provision of aid. This has led to a new framework of standards; so what can you count on? There has also been a plan of action to implement a whole set of improvement agreements throughout the year on how we deal with the provision of tools. Let me give you a brief answer. I can also give an evening answer, but let us stick to this for a moment, because it is actually part of another programme, namely the programme Unlimited! The letter is dated 31 January. Then there is the multiannual indication. The indication for the Wlz, i.e. today's topic, is of course lifelong. In my opinion, however, you meant it at all, for people with disabilities and in particular the indication in the municipal domain, in the Wmo domain. Of these, there is more frequent observation that the restrictions for which that indication was issued do not necessarily exceed a few months. So why is it all so short-lived? Can't it go on? I made a deal about that. I believe that Mr Kerstens has asked questions about this earlier. I have made agreements with municipalities that they themselves will indicate more frequently when there is a question of help for which a multiannual indication is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u133	I have a specific point. Indeed, this has been discussed more often, at the AO in May 2018, interim in the 2018 budget and at a motion in 2018, which Mr Agema has been busy working on. We also received a letter from the Minister on 20 June 2019. He literally states that after the summer of 2019 he would have an effect with the VNG on long-term decisions taken by municipalities in which the client and the professional will implement the decision in the support plan. We have still not received this effect. Especially since this has been going on for so long and gives so much unrest, I would like it if we could finally get a definitive answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u134	I get that. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that in second term. I am very pleased that I have sent it to the Chamber. Of course, you have done a very good job of finding out, so I guess you haven't. I need to check that out. Mr President, I think we have been a long way. Mr Renkema van GroenLinks talks about the projects relating to education and about the possibility of creating more space within the pilots. It might be good to explain the following. We are developing new learning lines for three sectors, so that people with disabilities can continue learning at their own level after special education. That's one element. The second is that the scheme is open to 500 people with disabilities to attend this education and finish with a diploma. Together with the VGN I have made an assessment of the number of things to do and to be easy to do and could be well organized. So this has been an assessment together with the VGN. If you ask the question in this way, perhaps you mean to say: would you like to have another conversation with the VGN to see if that number could be increased? I would like to do that, with the remark that I must continue to be able to manage and organise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u135	We are talking about a rather small group of students from the USA and the pro, who have no permanent work capacity. So they don't go to the Participation Act. By the way, the young people who end up there are not doing very well either. This concerns children who end up in day-to-day spending and who can take steps in their development through very nice pathways of practical learning. I find it a little strange to say: there are no more than 500, otherwise we will not be able to manage it or organise it. My proposal would be to bring that to 2,500, because the group is quite small.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u136	I understand that way of thinking, but do you mind if I take a look at that, even in consultation with the VGN? My hesitation is not so much in whether I give it the children's grace, or whatever. That's not the point. I just need to be able to live up to it, even in the way we organize it. If you want to organise this type of training course, it is not just about where the children are. It's also about whether you can involve the practice schools. I know from my Rotterdam period that we already had 14 practice schools in Rotterdam alone. So it's kind of hard to organize that in a good way, with sufficient scale, so that you have such a range as you're now calling it. The total population of practical education is actually very small within the vso, so you will need quite a lot of schools within your project to achieve this kind of numbers. There's my hesitation in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u137	I am not concerned with the outflow of practical education or the outskirts. The progress report states that 2,500 pupils fall into this target group and end up in day-to-day spending. I do not think it should be so complicated simply to say that this possibility exists for those young people who want to develop. Maybe half of those 2,500 students aren't taking that step right now either. In fact, I am concerned with the principle that you do not limit that to 500, because of ease of access.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u138	I need to be able to shape it first. But I understand the question very well, so I'm going to start with your question to see if I can give it shape and content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u139	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u140	Then I guess I've had the questions, so you won't believe it, but I'm already at the end of my Latin in first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u141	Well, well, well. Very good. So much for the first term. Then I'll see if there's a need for a second term. You don't have to. You're not required to speak, but you can. I am happy to be the first to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and a number of fine promises regarding the health profiles. The actualization, the intermediate step; we hear that in May. The rule pressure care and compulsion we hear in May. It is also good that the cabinet will learn lessons from the tailor-made problems. We'll get an update on that, too. And important that all actions and projects are also secured. I have one motion; I submit it with Mr Slootweg. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the Radboudumc shows that primary care care is not always well-connected with the needs of people with intellectual disabilities;]] [[noting that the study notes that these bottlenecks exist particularly in the case of evening, night and weekend care;]] [[considers that knowledge in primary care of the needs of people with learning disabilities should be sufficiently present at all times;]] [[calls on the government to consult with healthcare providers in the disabled and general practitioners on how to strengthen knowledge about the needs of people with learning difficulties, especially outside office hours, and to inform the Chamber about this by mid 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-225]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u143	I realize that there will be a covenant, but this is really something that is happening in practice now and I do not know specifically whether the service outside the office hours will be included in it. Hence this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u144	Then Mr Renkema of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for his comprehensive answer to the questions that have been asked. I am glad that, especially at the pilot stage, there will be more clarity about what is being picked up in a moment to spread and what may not outgrow that pilot phase. I think it is important that we do not stick to the programmes but that we also look at how the whole group of people we are talking about today can benefit from innovations. I have one motion, at the same point as the previous one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Full Life Programme lists some 2,500 young people with a sustainable labour restriction;]] [[noting that good practice is being developed within this programme with a view to broadening the training pathways for these young people;]] [[noting that the target for these training pathways is now set at a maximum of 500 people with disabilities;]] [[whereas this target represents only one fifth of the total number of young people;]] [[Whereas it is important for all young people involved to develop sustainably within their own pace and potential;]] [[calls on the Government not to set the figure of 500 as a maximum for the number of training pathways, but to set the ambition of the entire potential of 2,500 young people who can participate in such a training pathway;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-226]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u146	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his clear answer. I actually had two motions in hand, but I keep them there because the Minister said in the debate that in his outline note on the future of care he is going to pay explicit attention to disability care and that he is also coming forward with a plan to see how successful pilots can be secured and rolled out before the end of this programme that we are discussing today, so that many more people can benefit from it. I do have another motion for a resolution following the debate. It has to do with specific client support around the personal budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that customer support around the personalised budget (pgb) may be of significant added value, but is still insufficient;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with municipalities, to examine the municipalities' willingness to take part in a concrete pilot project in this area and to contact Per Balch in order to examine together the ways in which this can be done,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24170-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u147	Mr President, thank you. I also had a motion, but I think it has been sufficiently answered by the Minister's commitment to come in May with a discussion with the VGN and the CIZ on the health profiles. There is now a general consultation on disability policy on 2 April. It might be useful if we also looked at this subject, because we have a number of things around 60 places for the first group and 250 places for a second group that is not quite in the right place. I would find it useful if at that time there was another letter stating what progress has been made before another official progress report is made. Because I don't think we're waiting for more progress reports. I hope the Minister will be able to respond to this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u148	Very good. Thank you. Then Mrs. Laan-Geselschap of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are no motions on the VVD side. I have two further comments to make in connection with the debate that has taken place, thanks to the Minister and all the people at the back who have provided us with good answers. The Minister will return to long-term indication and indication. We would also like to hear more about the phenomenon of innovation and our curiosity about the flywheel effect. With regard to the places where Mr Slootweg and others have just returned, we are very interested in the laws and other instruments needed to enable them to be made possible in the longer term. The Minister mentioned this in his note. What can we anticipate and what should we perhaps presort on in order to continue this with each other in subsequent periods? Thank you also to the chairman for chairing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u150	Fine. Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u151	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. For my part, too, there are no motions in the light of the commitments and the Minister's response. I would also like to express my thanks for the letter of 17 February on complex care questions to which he referred, some of which relate. This provides a useful insight into the way in which the case is handled. In the annex to the letter I noticed that there are seven different ways of supporting finding appropriate care, and an equal number for lodging complaints. I think that's a little puzzle for all of us. Then it still asks for a decent education to find the right path to support, if you are not careful. The Right Loket is therefore part of finding the right window. I think there is still a challenge in communication for all of us to make these paths as clear as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u152	Good. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Agema of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard the Minister say in my direction that the application procedures for more care and group care would have been simplified, but that does not alter the problem that applying for more care takes so much time and is still so complex that a higher-educated employee has to take care of it. Then the salary costs are higher than the proceeds. The simplifications have not remedied this. The same is true for group care. The Minister has already addressed this in a letter once. But we can see that this is simply an impossibility. In fact, I am sorry that you are debating this for a number of years and that some of the problems remain. Sometimes there is a reaction to it or small things happen, but in fact these kind of persistent problems are not solved. I am very sorry to hear that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u154	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. At 2:00 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u155	If you just give the minister a sharp time, he'll stick to it. The Minister has the floor. I hope it can be short and pointy. It's just three motions; we'll be outside in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr President, my middle name is now short and pointy. So that's gonna be okay; you'll see. The motion in part No. Mrs Bergkamp's 225 calls on the government to consult with healthcare providers in the disabled sector and with general practitioners on how to strengthen knowledge of the needs of people with learning difficulties. I would like to leave this to the House, including the comment made by Mrs Bergkamp herself, namely in the spirit of the covenant as it is concluded and on which I had a little argument with Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u157	She's shaking yes, so that's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u158	She nods yes. You shake it with "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u159	You're right. No, Mrs. Bergkamp!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u160	I just wanted to say that the motion is partly on behalf of Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u161	Yeah, that's why his name's on it. Second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u162	That's the motion in part No. 226 which actually consolidates the dispute I just had with Mr Renkema about not the 500 but the 2,500. I would actually like to suggest to him that we hold this motion. 'Cause I said, give me a chance to have the conversation with VGN. Together with VGN we have made this assessment, which, as far as I am concerned, is mainly related to the feasibility in pilot form. If you say, "I actually want to reach five times as many young people," I need to know if I can do it myself. I understand. It might be a very sensible idea, but I'd like to see if I can live up to it. If I have to say something about the motion now, I don't really know what to say. So I'd like to ask you to hold this motion for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u163	The minister who doesn't know what to say: that's a unique thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u164	That's a confession, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u165	We rarely experience this in this house. We're gonna have to enjoy that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u166	But I understand the need for consultation with VGN and hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u167	At the request of Mr Renkema, I propose his motion (24170, No. 226). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u168	If you're a little vulnerable, what beauty can't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u169	All right, hold on to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u170	Yes. Then the motion to part No. 227, which asks the government to consult with municipalities to see if they are prepared to take part in a concrete pilot. Then it's about client support for people with a pgb. I would like to leave that to the Chamber. For the argument, I refer to the debate we have had on this subject. Then I promised Mrs Laan that I would come back to a number of points. With regard to the long-term indication, I was not able to find out what the last letter on this matter was to the Chamber. I'm gonna go check that out. I will return to that in writing. Then there is the issue of the disabled sector and customer support for the disabled sector. For that we certainly offer a place in the contour note. Then there was the question about the possibilities of co-financing and how co-financing was organised. An extremely brilliant response has been prepared to this, but also bearing in mind the President's encouragement, I will simply give that answer in writing. The short version is: there are many possibilities for co-financing. I'll give you the longer version. We also asked about the websites. Those are caresvannu.nl Those are caresbreed and knowledgepleingehandicaptensector.nl. All the proceeds from the Innovation impulse are there. They're also very catchy URLs, so that should work out. I could dedicate a two to it later. Then we've spread the good ideas right away. If you do that, we've done something beautiful in the sum of followers, I think. The SGP refers to the letter on complex care questions. That's absolutely true. We were writing it. It's not like I was writing things that I thought: hey, I didn't know that existed. Not that, but I was writing things that I thought: if we have to write a 17-page letter about our complex care questions, then it's not so crazy that the people who it's about sometimes find it quite difficult. Yet all these paths have been devised with the best of intentions. I do not think that some people's desire to opt for one-stop shops is entirely in line with the variety of care questions, and it is also a question of where and to whom these care questions arise. I think that one point of contact is a little too ambitious. Can you reduce that a little bit in the complexity of everything we do? I think that is a good encouragement for ourselves if we discuss a law which, for example, makes an exception in the amendment or comes up with something new for another group that has written us a letter and we would like to meet it. That is why we have come to a rather complex whole in the sum of legal proceedings. So thank you. I would also have promised you that I would come back in the second term to the question of when we should go fully into the issue of grace care. That was perhaps in conjunction with a commitment to Mr Renkema. I would like to do that with the next progress report Langer Home, because it is in April. Mrs Agema spoke about the multi-care scheme and the administrative burden associated with the multi-care scheme. She always does. It is extremely consistent. I actually think that every time she did the observation 'this is complicated in practice', I went to the department under my arm and went to work with the people who are dealing with the multi-care scheme to see how we can simplify that thing. I thought I had taken into account all of Mrs. Agema's observations very faithfully, but it didn't sound like that. I am therefore going to promise her that in a letter that is either on the occasion of another letter, or in a separate letter that simply reflects on the observations that have been made earlier in parliamentary debates and what we have done with it in the implementation practice. Once again, I believe that we have always made the adjustments that Mrs Agema ordered here, but perhaps it is not. Let me write it out for once. If that turns out to be the case, we can come back to that in a VSO, in an AO, or otherwise. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u171	It's flown by. Thank you very much to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-04-tweedekamer-4.u172	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I'm suspending until 2:35 p.m. We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions on the JHA Council. So we're gonna vote at 2:35 p.m. and then we're gonna have the schedule of work. So far.
