ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya, on behalf of the SP Group, for his questions to the Minister for Finance, whom I would also like to welcome, on the abuses at Kifid. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We all have to deal with the financial sector, for example for a mortgage, insurance or a loan. So we are all faced with large, powerful financial institutions with thousands of employees and billions of turnover. If you are then duped by, for example, your bank or your insurance company, you are facing a giant. You're facing a huge company with a lot more money than you, with a lot more time than you and a lot more legal knowledge and lawyers than you. You may be right, but you may actually be right, but it's often God's impossible. And going to court is way too expensive for a lot of people anyway. That's why Kifid, the Complaints Institute for Financial Services, is so very important. It is an independent institution that should help the financial sector to compensate quickly. That is precisely why it is so harsh that Kifid does not seem to be so independent in practice. As SP, we regularly receive reports from citizens who have experienced that after years of misery, Kifid is taking the side of financial institutions. Yesterday this was confirmed again, also in the TV show Radar. Also, Kifid still cooperates on confidentiality statements if you want to reach a settlement. So there are still deals being made in the backrooms that other dupeds have no idea about, and which no one really has eyes on. That's serious, because when you're duped, you don't know what's been decided before in similar situations, whereas that company, that giant company, of course, knows that. Like the power difference wasn't big enough! I have two questions for the Minister. How is he going to ensure that the Complaints Institute for Financial Services is actually standing next to the citizen in front of those powerful financial institutions, as ever intended? Is he prepared to address Kifid as soon as possible, so that they no longer cooperate in confidentiality statements on settlements and both the settlement process and the outcome become transparent and therefore case law can arise?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, thank you. As Mr Alkaya said, the Kifid is the independent Complaint Institute for Financial Services and I think I have received a lot of attention from your Chamber and myself in recent years. Is everything going well and everything in the past went well at the Kifid? No, definitely not. There are a lot of complaints that have been standing still for too long, there have been some doubts about independence in the past, and it is not for nothing that this has been discussed with the Chamber more often. Isn't there anything done with those criticisms? As far as I'm concerned, I am. A change in the structure, governance, was introduced in 2011, with the Minister of Finance agreeing to the appointment of members. That, of course, makes for more independence. And the Minister of Finance agrees to the budget. There was an evaluation in 2016, which confirmed once again that Kifid's independence was sufficiently guaranteed. In addition, there has been a request by Mr Seligman, and I myself have explicitly urged him to work hard to speed up the handling of complaints about this so-called investment insurance, because we were dealing with late work. I see, quite frankly, that the attention of your Chamber, and of some Members in particular, certainly from Mr Alkaya but also from myself, is helping. The cases dealt with by Kifid through this mediation are assessed on average by consumers by an 8. However, we will also review this year and re-examine the situation with regard to independence. I really think that, thanks to our attention, Kifid is back on the right track. I have already said to Mr Alkaya that there can never be any question of the information between the Kifid and the citizen. That must be transparent. My observation is that this is indeed happening and is also explicitly discussed in the sections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the latter. Yesterday the Minister himself saw in the Radar television programme that this is still not happening. He thus confirms what he has already said in the AA financial markets, namely that this kind of confidentiality should no longer occur. In doing so, he repeats what his predecessor, Minister Dijsselbloem, said already in 2015. The Financial Markets Authority also says that it really doesn't happen, but in practice we get signals that it still does. Is the Minister prepared to address the Kifid as soon as possible to the fact that it is still not cooperating on these matters? There seems to be a difference between what is experienced by citizens in the outside world and what the Minister is now repeating. Is he willing to address the Kifid on this? And then about independence. In setting up the Kifid, the Consumers' Association wanted an independent institution that would stand alongside the citizen and help combat malpractice and abuse of power by the financial sector. That's what the SP still wants. So the Kifid really should have been a watchdog. However, it says yesterday that it is a neutral referee, but in practice it is even a home whistler! It has just become a home whistler of the financial institutions. What has to do with that one-on-one is the funding, the financing. The Kifid is still funded by the financial sector itself. The banks and the insurance companies are paying for the Kifid. We still live in capitalism where unfortunately the slogan applies: who pays, determines. Will the financing of the Kifid also be part of the evaluation promised by the Minister for this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start at the beginning. That is the great importance that we attach to the fact that consumers have a point of contact where they can go in independence when they have a complaint. I repeat: the average consumer who has gone this way honours that process, either on profit or on loss, taken on average by an 8. That should give some confidence, but I am the first to underline what Mr Alkaya says, namely that things have not gone well in the past. I would like to make two points with Mr Alkaya, just to ensure that there is a proper procedure and that there is a fairness for the citizens in the future. Let us objectify even more the evaluation of the Institute which was independent and there was also the independence of the Institute from................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Let me use the opportunity provided by the law to appoint the party that is going to do the research, which is going to do the evaluation. The Kifid doesn't, I do. I think that's a step leading to even more objectification. The second thing I want to say is that let us take into account what Mr Alkaya is about, namely transparency. Let us have the Committee of Inquiry, that institute that is going to evaluate, examine this case and make recommendations on where it could be even better with regard to transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u8	I welcome the commitment on the evaluation. We look forward to that, and we will be watching it very closely. As far as confidentiality is concerned, the Minister himself states in Parliament that it must not happen again. That is what his predecessors have done, but we were able to see yesterday's signals on television that this is still happening. He doesn't have to wait for the evaluation, does he? He can tell the Kifid this isn't supposed to happen anymore, can he? I look forward to seeing the Minister's response in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u9	I try not to repeat the subjects three or four times. I think I made a commitment to this in the AA. I am, of course, prepared to repeat that. I think Mr Alkaya is looking for an extra lock on the door. That's what I'm offering him and the whole parliament. Yes, I will now discuss this transparency again, but I think it is also important to have that committee, that evaluation body, look at it. That gives us all even more objectivity in assessing whether things are going well or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya.
