ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the discussion of the Financial Review Act proposed quality standards. Welcome to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. Welcome to members, too. We have six speakers on the side of the Chamber, who have some varying speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Agema, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Healthcare Institute is expected to encourage improvements in the quality of care. Quality standards are drawn up with different parties from the field, patients and healthcare providers, healthcare providers, health insurers and customer organisations. The aim of developing and making quality standards transparent is to improve quality. That is what a civilized country should strive for in the 21st century. This construction was chosen because the freedom of medical action on scientific or professional grounds cannot be controlled by political influence. This legislative proposal removes this view, without arguing why. Political influence is expressly made possible by this legislative proposal. It is clear that we consider this to be a bad development and a very undesirable situation. Politics is going to determine what good care is, rather than the people who know it. All this for money reasons. Good care is exchanged with this bill for affordable care. The Zorginstituut fears that this bill will affect the quality improvement of quality standards, as additional requirements will be imposed on applicants of quality standards, on the Zorginstituut itself and on the collaboration with the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the inspection. Moreover, the legislative proposal runs counter to the original objective of encouraging the field to develop and implement quality standards to improve quality and make good care known. Moreover, the Zorginstituut argues that this bill could be based on unintended incentives. Unintended incentives where quality improvement is no longer a priority. The bill may have unintended effects that will hinder the quality development of field parties. Since 1 April 2014, the Zorginstituut has registered many quality standards. The Quality Framework Nursing Care is the first and only registration of all registrations with significant financial consequences. It is therefore this quality framework that has led to the framing of this legislative proposal. The Minister wants to stop an undesirable increase in collective spending and the collective burden burden or the displacement of other political expenditure. But what exactly is an undesirable increase? As far as we are concerned, the EUR 2.1 billion for nursing homes is not an undesirable increase. On the contrary, it was much needed. Indeed, since 2004, the inspection concluded in its inspections at nursing homes that there were staff shortages. There were too few well-educated staff everywhere. As a result, there was a danger to residents of the institutions. The inspection concluded that 80% of nursing homes could not guarantee the minimum necessary care. Residents couldn't organize their own day, they often showered only once a week and help with eating because they couldn't do it anymore, often lacked. In 2006, the inspection concluded that the desired improvement in daily care directly related to staff deployment took time. For example, in almost half of the institutions visited, there was still no guarantee that clients would receive sufficient help with food and drink. In half of the institutions, the supervision of dementia patients was not properly regulated. In May 2007, the Health and Care Council also presented a report which concluded that the quality of care deteriorated rapidly due to lack of staff. But also in 2008 the inspection had to conclude that the deployment of staff based on individual care needs and care of clients was not yet commonplace in the nursing and care homes. Only 4% of the institutions had the staff in order. In 2014, the inspection came with a harsh judgment. Many institutions found that the availability and expertise of staff was insufficiently adapted to the care needs of clients. During the unannounced visits, only 4% of the institutions complied with the standard for adequately qualified staff. In 2015, the inspection concluded that the training of employees was still a matter of attention. In almost half of the institutions, the amount of training could be improved and existing training was not yet sufficiently adapted to the care problems of clients. The final report of the 2016 inspection was once again tough. The expertise of care professionals in the nursing homes was insufficient. The coordination between care needs and the expertise and employability of staff was insufficient. 23% of the institutions did not employ sufficient professional staff to carry out daily care. Everyone knew what had to be done by now: the helm in the nursing homes had to change drastically. The quality of the nursing homes has been inadequate for decades. Vulnerable elderly people were the victims. Debate after debate in this Chamber we talked about the lousy quality of nursing home care. We talked about pajama days and maximized and planned toilet visits in the form of pee contracts. People didn't get hot meals anymore. There was self-deprecation. The Secretary of State's father denounced the care of his wife in the nursing home. I therefore ask the Minister whether he really believes that this EUR 2.1 billion is an undesirable increase for nursing homes. It was the only quality framework of the Healthcare Institute that led to an increase. There was only this increase. And now the Minister wants to present this legislative amendment to us and he speaks of an "unwanted increase'. What's he basing that on? The only increase was this increase, that of the quality framework nursing home care. Mr. Chairman. Under Secretary of State, Bussemaker, I am talking about Balkenende IV, we were in the situation where the care gravity funding was introduced. There was a suspicion that there was a shortage in the macro budget for the nursing homes, but no one got the finger behind it. Bussemaker just didn't answer either. When we started negotiating for the Rutte I cabinet, it was known within a few days that the deficit at that time was EUR 750 million. An amount that had remained secret from us as a Lower House all along. There was an additional investment boost of 856 million euros, which had to bring the rates for nursing homes back to cost. Then we went to the Rutte II cabinet and we had to deal with Secretary of State Van Rijn. Every time he said, "No, those Agemaalten still exist." But he didn't see that on one side of the macro budget there was more and more, and more, and more. Once again, an invisible button was turned, the same button that Secretary of State Bussemaker had turned. In the meantime 37,000 care workers were discharged from the nursing and nursing homes. "No, no, no," said Van Rijn, "these additional resources just still exist." One discharge after the other followed. Of course, we here in this house had the feeling that something was wrong, but he didn't give us openness. When it became known that the amount represented some 2.1 billion euros, the whole politics decided that the amount had to be upgraded again. Rutte III and this minister are doing so now. This should bring the balance of the cost of the macro budget for nursing homes to zero. But that investment hasn't worked out yet. That's still gonna happen. So we are now in the situation that the quality of nursing home care is not in order according to the quality standard and that there is a big gap when it comes to the number of employees. I ask the Minister about the current state of that deficit. We know that we started with a deficit of about 37,000 and that at some point there was a "whore" press release that 10,000 people had joined. So I conclude that the deficit was then 27,000. But how big is the shortage of staff currently in nursing homes when it comes to failing to comply with the standard standard of nursing home care? In fact, we should have been able to deal with them since they were registered. Mr. Chairman. It is not good that political fluctuations in our country determine whether or not there are sufficient staff at the bed. It should be the quality that determines that. Isn't it terrible that under Bussemaker you have a shortage, that it will be repaid under Veldhuijzen van Zanten, that the deficit under Van Rijn will again exist and that it will now have to be repaid? So what's the next cabinet gonna do? It was precisely a relief that we were given a quality standard, an objective tool that was going to determine whether there were enough people at the bed and that should be based on the quality standards that professionals have prepared for it. Unfortunately, it was not allowed to come to that, Mr President. In the light of all this, the Zorginstituut has drawn up the quality framework for nursing homes, together with the minimum standards for staffing. If you look at the quality framework, there are of course a lot of different standards to come up with for a lot of different compositions of groups of residents. However, it roughly corresponds to the occupation standard as calculated by the Central Planning Bureau and was published on 16 February 2017. That amount amounts to about two care workers out of eight residents during peak times. That is what we are still under at the moment. Registration of the Quality Framework Nursing Care in the Register was legally secured and thus binding. The substantial additional costs to comply with the quality framework were therefore legally required. These costs were roughly EUR 2.1 billion in structural terms. This showed how bad it really was with the quality of nursing home care and how bad it is if the Lower House of the States-General is not aware of that shortage. Nobody knew. Nobody. I repeat, no one. Even former Secretary of State Van Rijn didn't know. Because his party reserved 500 million euros in the pass-through of the Election Programs Choices in Map, which was presented on February 16, 2017. Nobody knew. No one knew that it was such a large amount when the Central Planning Office presented the transfer of the occupation standard on the same day, amounting to EUR 2.1 billion. That was the same amount as the Health Care Institute came up in March of that year. How strange is it that one party did know? One party knew: the VVD. Because the VVD had the maximum amount to invest in Choices in Map: 1.9 billion euros. In spite of all the questions I have had the pleasure of asking ministers and predecessors of this minister, I have been able to clarify how this can be done. Maybe Mrs. Laan-Geselschap can tell you later. But the biggest cut in terms of care, former Minister Schippers, who is the queen of savings, and the VVD, who tackles every austerity? The VVD knew. Van Rijn didn't know it, but the VVD knew it. I'd love to know. The impact analysis of the NZa was presented on 21 March, more than a month later than the accounts. It was discussed in the Council of Ministers on 31 March. I had stuck to the political fluctuations. Whether there are enough caregivers to care for our elders was therefore dependent in our country on political fluctuations and how the political hat stands. The quality framework crossed that. So now we're on a crucifix that this is going to come back. I find that very shabby. With the introduction of the quality register nursing home care, it seems appropriate to ask whether it is desirable to introduce the quality standard with such substantial financial consequences without prior scrutiny by the Minister and without Parliament being able to influence it. It is clear that we are not waiting for this law. I think the Minister's playing it smart. He pretends that his budget law is at stake and that he has to make it through this legislative change. With this bill, the Minister wants to give himself the legal authority to pre-check the entry in the register so that he can stop it. So he actually wants to turn on the same button, as Bussemaker and Van Rijn had. Zanten's field hijacks also had these, but she just turned the knob up. He wants to determine whether the financial consequences of the quality standard are acceptable. But this bill goes even further than the quality standards. Professional standards and written and unwritten standards will also be included. Also through professional standards, collective healthcare expenditure can now increase without the Minister being able to influence it. The possibility of substantially increasing healthcare expenditure through an adjustment of parts of the professional standard is also closed with this bill. The Minister may prohibit the Zorginstituut from registering a quality standard. He's actually gonna sit on the professional's chair with this bill. This gives politicians a voice to make a statement on what is good care and whether or not good care is desirable. After all, the test allows a political balance to be made between the added value of the quality of care and the financial consequences. The minister, therefore, the politics, is going to decide what good care is. I told you before: good care will only become affordable care. Finance must never be superior to the quality and content of a quality standard. The quality of care must always remain the starting point. What good care entails is further completed with legislation and regulations, a professional standard and quality standards. It is important that this is not made political. It is clear from the much discussed Quality Framework for Nursing Care that politics must keep far from the content of quality standards. Once it became clear after the registration in the quality register what the costs were for the implementation of the Quality Framework Nursing Care, a structural need was 2.1 billion. This was discussed in the Council of Ministers. The fiercest opponents of the extra funds for the Quality Framework Nursing Home Care were at that time, to the extent that it is publicly known and we know that, ministers of the VVD: Camp and Hennis. Rara, how can that be? Minister Kamp recently stated in the Hague Lobby programme that he had even had his officials of Economic Affairs check whether that extra money was really binding. In the meantime, he has changed his mind a bit, now that he is ActiZ's top boss, and even thinks that that money is on the tight side. It's possible. The VVD has therefore earmarked EUR 2 billion for care for the elderly in the election programme, but when that money actually came, it was not enthusiastic. In fact, the national attorney was called in to see if the whole quality framework could not be reversed. Politics! It is the first point from the Chamberwide embraced manifesto of Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers: the politicisation of nursing home care. This will make care for the elderly a damage, because it is a matter of decency. It is not really a political issue, but it should be of general interest. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's playing it smart, I told you. He wants to make it look like budget law is at stake and that he has to make it through this legislative amendment. The Minister wants to make it look like he's completely out of line with the extra cost of the quality standard. That's just not true. The macro budget can be reduced in many ways. The Minister is not out of play. For example, the macrobudget was already severely reduced by his predecessor Van Rijn by not allowing the financing of the care homes to be part of the Long-term Care Act. That was close to 3 billion. The macro budget was also reduced by Van Rijn by a 90% reduction in the daily spending of demented elderly people. That was close to 1.1 billion. This minister has already reduced the macro budget in recent years by not recalibrating the rates of nursing homes. In addition, the Minister already has the opportunity to negotiate price agreements for reasons of efficiency. Here are a number of possibilities that the Minister already has, without the law, to influence the macro budget. Why are these possibilities not enough? Why does the Minister still need this law? He also mentioned how the development of the macro-budget for the Wlz framework now works. The growth of the Wlz budgetary framework is the medium-term estimate of healthcare expenditure under unchanged policies by the Central Planning Bureau. It takes into account not only the effects of demography and epidemiology, but also, for example, income effects and other growth. In determining the growth space for a given year, the medium-term estimate of care and the volume growth achieved in the past is taken into account. The growth forecast by the Central Planning Bureau may be adjusted. During the year of care, the NZa will examine whether the size of the available macro-budget and the distribution between the regions are still sufficient for the development of the results. The NZa advises on the adequacy of the Wlz framework and the use of the redistribution funds reserved in the previous year. This system makes it possible to use growth funds in a targeted way. My question to the Minister is why this is not enough. Why isn't this enough? Why does he need this law? Apart from all these possibilities of curbing the macro budget, I have not yet talked about saving major sums of money on care, for example, by effectively tackling the overhead, by throwing the rules overboard, by tackling legal but also criminal grabbing and by allowing ICT to flourish. Let the NZa make that a budget impact analysis, I'd say. Then there is the review of the quality standards. The financial review shall apply where a quality standard includes risk criteria such as the increase in the number of healthcare providers to be deployed. Increased demands on the qualifications of the caregivers aha! A new way of providing care or any other organisation of the care process where the financial investment is necessary for, where necessary, major structural, spatial, technical or organisational adjustments. Quality standards must be widely applicable, as this may make them costly. These legal criteria can be further strengthened or filled in by general measure of governance. If this AMvB is already available, I ask the Minister. Several parties argue that virtually all quality standards impose requirements on the training of caregivers and contain elements of new technology. This makes the review applicable to more than the three set out. I'd like a response from the Minister. Moreover, it is not clear to me what amount is involved in substantial additional costs. How much is that amount? Is that a million? Is that 10 million? Is that 100 million? Is that 1 billion? Is that 2.1 billion? I would like a clear answer from the Minister. Then there is the increase in administrative burdens and the regulatory burden. Almost all of the proposed quality standards require an assessment of the impact on collective healthcare expenditure after the entry into force of this legislative amendment and qualitative subscription. This will lead to a huge increase in the administrative burden in the submission process. The creation of this additional threshold may even lead to no or less quality standards being provided. The Zorginstituut warns that the primary objective, namely improving quality, will disappear into the background, because adjustments will take place at the front, which will be made to quality standards if the analysis shows that the quality standard will lead to substantial additional costs. Will they then be able to adapt, reduce, reduce the quality standard? How should I see this, I ask the Minister. What is the value of a quality standard if it cannot simply be drawn up independently without taking into account costs? Mr. Chairman. If the quality standard is not adjusted, a budget impact analysis of the NZa will follow, an analysis of the possible financial consequences. This budget impact analysis has implications for the work of the Dutch Healthcare Authority and for the capacity to carry out this work. The Zorginstituut will also carry out more and more intensive work through this legislative proposal. How much extra FTE will this cost? What are the costs of the work resulting from this bill? The Minister then makes the political assessment of whether or not to register the quality standard. The Minister says that he will not interfere with the content of the so-called quality standards, but he will decide what it may cost. And he does decide which quality standard is and which is not registered. The Minister shall determine whether or not the additional costs of a quality standard are acceptable. This means that he has an influence on the implementation of what is good care, and therefore also on the quality of care. According to the Minister, after this change of law, there is no change in the responsibility for setting quality standards, but we do not share this view. We also find it remarkable that the Minister wants to remove responsibility from other parties here, while in other parts of his portfolio he prefers to refer to other parties in the field. The Council of State also points this out. I'd like a response from the Minister. In a letter from the Dutch Healthcare Authority dated 19 March 2018, we can read that we are already dealing, in an interim period, in line with this bill. At present, it is already being considered whether a standard of quality contains risk factors that can lead to substantial additional costs. How many entries have been made in the register during this interim period? Previously, the Minister to the Chamber indicated that two quality standards were financially tested during this interim period, namely the Emergency Care Chain Quality Framework and the Acute Psychiatry generic module. However, through the website of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, we have only been able to identify the budget impact analysis of the Quality Framework for Emergency Care Chain. This shows that further agreements on the quality framework have been made on the basis of the budgetary impact analysis. So it's been modified. The implementation of the Emergency Quality Framework will cost up to 26.8 million euros. Is this higher or lower than the substantial amount? Apparently, it has already been adapted. Has the Minister agreed to register this quality framework, or are these still not the substantial additional costs? Are the proposed quality standards not entered in the register or deleted later? I'd like an answer. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. Everyone in this house wanted to improve the quality of nursing home care. That was just really necessary. That was necessary because of the political fluctuations, and because the previous rulers secretly turned the buttons and so severely disadvantaged the nursing home residents. I understand the wish expressed by the SP in its amendment, namely that the House of Representatives should please have the last word, and that we should at least know about it when the button is turned again. In itself that would be an improvement on the situation under Van Rijn and Bussemaker, but it is a second best. Our elders should not depend on how the political wind blows at any time. The question of whether there are enough people who care and nurse them should be based on the question of what quality we as a society expect from nursing home care. We'll save on cutting the rules and the overhead, and putting criminals behind bars who rob care. I ask the groups that are considering giving the Minister that sneaking button back into their hands to realise what they are doing with it. Don't stand here crying in a couple of years if it turns out that the budgets were truncated so far that we are back to square one when it comes to the quality of care in the nursing homes, and the mother of a secretary of state has run the urine along the legs. Everyone embraced the manifesto in 2017. Everyone wanted the quality of nursing home care to a higher level. But instead of great joy and tears of happiness that the money is actually going to be there, somewhere in the future, we are two and a half years later, if the quality framework has not even been worked out, again looking at the shards of what was once the quality framework. The elderly have been used purely as an election stunt. They're in the garbage again, next to the election flyers. Through this bill, political influences and fluctuations re-establish whether high-age people in nursing homes are nursing or not. I have one final question on that. I have already mentioned this: the Quality Framework for Nursing Home Care has not even been implemented yet, but it already appears that the population of nursing home residents is growing more rapidly than estimated, and is growing more rapidly than the EUR 2.1 billion in 2022. So it's going to cost extra money to meet the Quality Framework Nursing Care, but I haven't seen any extra money for that yet. Loud and clear, the Minister insists that Grandma will notice and that this quality framework for nursing homes will not be affected. But that is not so as long as there is no more money available for the extra population. After all, the cake needs to be distributed differently, over more people. So you don't get those two caregivers out of eight residents at peak times. "Grandma's gonna notice," said the minister. But for the time being, the current nursing home residents are not going to see the promise of everyone here in the room. That's a very sad conclusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you very much. Mr Slootweg has an interruption. Go ahead, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u5	I think it was a very nice, thorough analysis of Mrs. Agema. But I do have a bit of a problem with the following. Doesn't Mrs Agema make too great a distinction between legal and political? I always think: that Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers started with that, wasn't that a sort of political consideration from society? With this law, don't you realize you're making it much more politically insightful?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u6	No, because it's just happening behind closed doors. It's the minister who's gonna touch that button. You may get it as a coalition partner, but in another cabinet you may be in opposition and you will know nothing about whether there is a deficit or not. That was the situation under Bussemaker. That was also the situation under Van Rijn. Whether there is sufficient budget available for the nursing homes becomes a button to turn on. But that also applies to all the other quality standards you set up, including the acute care, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u7	But the point is that this law wasn't there yet. So it was already unclear back then. But doesn't the coming of this law make it much clearer? After all, the Minister must also state when he deviates from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u8	To whom? The Heink amendment must ensure that the Chamber finds out. You will then have to vote in favour of that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u9	Maybe I interpret the law differently from you, but I have the feeling that this law is exactly what steps are being taken with which the balancing act is how should I put it? It is much more political and much more social than it has been in the past. It hasn't stopped it in the past either. Look, I understand the frustration, and the analysis I also understand a whole end. But I have the feeling that you are actually increasing it a little bit with what was in the past and what is coming next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u10	Yeah, but I think that's perfectly right, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u11	Anyway, maybe that's another political consideration that we'll make when we read this law. But I think this is just... How can I put it? It also gave no guarantee in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u12	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u13	No, I don't think so. So that is part of my speech, in which I said that it is the political fluctuations that determine whether or not there are enough people at the nursing home bed. It is political fluctuations that have determined that. We see that the number of older people is going to double, and so is their concern. So whether we're talking about nursing homes, acute care, ambulance care or whatever, you can actually put it on a note: if you put the last word back to politics instead of objective quality standards and the budgetary effects that go with it, then you get the situation that politics just becomes unreliable. Because politics is going to determine it: now it's in the news, so now we're going to adopt that quality standard. Then we didn't talk about the nursing home resident for a while. So it gets a little forgotten, and then we find out there's another two billion short. Then we'll all go after that again. So you will all have political fluctuations, because politics is simply completely unreliable in that respect. If you look at that in the context that until 2040 the number of older people is going to double and their question of care is going to have a very big impact on the state finances, then you can actually draw a note that the people who are going to ask for care will not be the winner of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u14	Really rounding up, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u15	Yeah, really rounding up. I think that Mrs Agema is in fact doing the repair that needs to be done and is still in progress... By the way, I share that entirely with her. But that was also a political consideration. In that sense, I can see that I feel that difference at least slightly less. There has really been a political achievement. He can do the repair too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u16	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u17	No, because there was also an enormous political opportunism. We all didn't even know how big that hole was. We all had debates here in the Lower House about all these shortcomings in the nursing homes, but we all didn't know how big the shortage was. It was only when the quality standard was drawn up with all the different scenarios of these occupations that EUR 2.1 billion came out. The Centraal Planbureau also passed on the occupation standard to EUR 2.1 billion. But we didn't know how big that problem was until 16 February 2017. No, so it is precisely politics that has kept people from getting further and further into the tribulation. That was precisely because of opportunism, because it appeared that the quality standard was also legally mandatory. That happened to coincide with the manifesto of Borst and Gaemers. Everything came together in a very strange way. That is what the Hague Lobby programme has actually charted quite recently. Because it was election time, because that quality standard nursing home care came in, because the Centraal Planningbureau's billing was there, Hugo Borst and Karin Gaemers just got a very good exposure. Then everything came together. But that whole quality standard has not even been implemented, and we already have the debate to give the last word back to the minister and his successors. He hasn't even been infected yet, and he's already getting put in the garbage. I think that's very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you. As President, I would also like to thank you for having used less than half the speaking time you have given. I call Mr Hijink on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question is: who decides in our country what good care is? Is that this minister, is that the Healthcare Institute or is that all the healthcare professionals, who are working every day for everyone in our country who needs care? As far as SP is concerned, it is the professionals who, together with the patients, know best what good care is. They know which method is effective, how to deliver more quality and how to use all available resources as smartly as possible. Therefore, the SP is also a strong supporter of working with quality standards. Caregivers are well able to learn from each other. What works best in practice should be the norm for everyone. The beauty of standards is that they are aligned with all parties involved, including patients and clients, with all those involved. They are not imposed from above, but determined from below, exactly as it should be. The Quality Framework for Nursing Home Care has been in force since March 2017. That standard is important, because it finally sets clear standards for the occupation of a group of residents of a nursing home. A quality plan is also made for each location, so that care can really progress in all places. Of course, it is not surprising that such a new standard could lead to higher spending. Maybe that's just the point. It was also very much needed in the case of nursing homes. Mrs Agema has explained this very well. At the same time, we must not forget that the right investment in care also brings us a great deal in terms of people's well-being, the income position of carers, the workload and the great financial benefits of a healthy population for the economy and society. The purpose of the law we are discussing today is to control collective healthcare expenditure. Like the Council of State, the SP finds it very striking that the Minister is taking a new opportunity here to curb the cost of care. It is a strange way of working, precisely because professionals, clients and the financiers in the care sector have already established that the new standard represents an improvement. The Minister also has many opportunities to manage the costs of care. For example, he could remove from the system all incentives to provide more care than is necessary. He could take the profits out of care so that quality goes beyond profit. He could hire doctors instead of letting them run their own business and make a profit. He could encourage less competition and more cooperation, so that people work less alongside each other. He could take the abundant bureaucracy out of the system, so that caregivers don't waste a third of their time on paperwork. Mr. Chairman. The SP considers it very important that care remains affordable, but saving on quality is undesirable and unwise. Quality improvement leads to better care and better well-being for patients and their families, less absenteeism and higher labour productivity. The costs are for the benefit of this. Can the Minister explain why he does not want to save on the points he has just mentioned, but does he now choose to put the brakes on quality improvement? What other options does the Minister have to steer towards healthcare expenditure? I believe that Mrs Agema has just about read out the whole Article 49e of the Market Organisation Health Act. There is no doubt that the Minister already has the opportunity to save on care or invest in care, depending on what he wants and what kind of political hat he wears. Mr. Chairman. This minister wants to be able to refuse a quality standard from the sector if he believes that this quality gap is too expensive. How is the Minister going to prevent him from sitting in the chair of the healthcare professional and patients when he's going to make the final judgment on quality standards? Is he not suspicious of all healthcare providers, client organisations and other stakeholders who are committed to the best possible care? Does he not think that if health insurers and health care agencies have already been involved in creating a new standard, they have taken a good look at the financial consequences of this standard? They were sitting at the table when it was written. Then they'll take that anyway, you'd expect. Can the Minister respond to the concerns about how the disciplinary judge will soon have to assess the concept of "good care" if there is an improved quality standard, but it has not been approved by the Minister? Does the disciplinary judge refer to that outdated understanding of good care, when we all know that it can be better, but that it should not be better? And that, of course, is a problem. Caregivers may be able to deliver more quality, but they can't. And if it doesn't happen, then who's guilty? Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister indicate to what extent we can rely on the independence of the Healthcare Institute? Since this week, we have known that the Ministry and the Healthcare Institute have helped health insurers behind the scenes not to allow the phasing-out of psychiatric medicines to be reimbursed. I ask the Minister if this information is correct. Is it true that officials from the Healthcare Institute have suggested that insurance company VGZ should provide assistance in a lawsuit brought by the Association for Renovation Medicine in order to be reimbursed for this medication? Does the Minister also consider this to be contrary to the independent position which the Healthcare Institute should take? Mr. Chairman. We do not yet know what quality standards will end up under this new law on the Minister's sign. The Minister expects three quality standards to be assessed annually for substantial financial risks. At the same time, the Council of State states that the assessment criteria included are so broad that many more quality standards for assessment will be placed on the board of the Minister. I think that the Council of State is right, because the criteria that apply to possible substantial consequences of a standard are very broad. It may be a standard that sets high qualifications for care providers, new ways of organising care, spatial technical adjustments or a situation where the standard applies to a large number of healthcare providers. Those are very general criteria, aren't they? You would almost expect that any standard can meet these criteria in any way. I ask the Minister why he has chosen these criteria. Why are they so broad and why does he not want to give a more precise description of which standards he does now and which he does not want to judge as minister? Can the Minister also indicate what a substantial financial risk actually is? Are we talking about tens of millions of euros, are we talking about hundreds of billions of euros? What exactly is it about? This bill does not make that clear. And what's "a lot"? That depends on who you ask. One will find an investment of EUR 1 billion in nursing care a great deal, and the other thinks it is far too little. So how are you going to establish that objectively? Can the Minister also indicate what exactly he intends to do in general terms in relation to these unclear criteria? It also seems useful to me that before such a law comes into force, the healthcare sector knows what is coming towards them. What happens if the Minister refers a new quality standard to the wastebasket, because it is too expensive? Does he have an assignment to properly motivate why that happens? Should he also indicate what impact he would find acceptable? Of course, this is a very slippery approach, because in fact, where the Minister wants a financial test, he will actually carry out a substantive test at that time, even though it is difficult to assess it. It is about money, about how much extra money needs to be spent, but that can only be done if you put it along the bar of content. Following a rejection of the parties, are they expected to reach new agreements that will have a less significant impact on the budget? Will the Minister himself play a role in this? Mr. Chairman. The SP has tabled four amendments to this proposal. Two amendments have already gone around this afternoon and two more have been put on the mail. The first one is actually in line with the point I just made. If this proposal were to reach a majority, we would like to see the criteria currently in force for declaring a quality standard of financial risk evaluated in due course, so that the sector can make it very clear whether it is working or not. The SP also believes that the Lower House and the Upper House should be more involved in the decisions of the Minister to allow or not to allow a standard to enter the quality register. It is right that Mrs Agema should say: you do not want this to happen in a back room behind closed doors only by the Minister. A third proposal the SP makes today is to look beyond the impact on healthcare expenditure in those cases where the quality standard is reviewed by the Dutch Healthcare Authority. After all, we know that higher quality standards can not only have financial consequences, but also affect the accessibility and availability of care. Imagine the introduction of an increased standard of quality in hospitals, which could lead to higher demands, for example on the occupation, the level of education or the volume of operations that a hospital has to perform for a particular procedure. That could mean two things. There will be more money, so that smaller regional hospitals will also be able to meet these stricter requirements, or insurers will decide that these smaller hospitals will not be able to meet the new quality requirements and that therefore departments will close down or care will be removed. It seems to us wise, when a standard reaches the Minister's plate, that he has an insight into the financial impact, but also that a test has preceded the accessibility and availability of care. I'll ask the Minister if he agrees. This bill also describes what quality standards have to be met when they are proposed to the Healthcare Institute. These should provide a clear description of the quality proposed. Of course, that's obvious. There are a number of other conditions that applicants must comply with. We also believe it is important that such a proposed standard clearly defines the possible consequences for accessibility and accessibility of care. It is good that a quality plan is proposed. However, when providers, insurers and patient organisations propose a standard, I also consider it important, as I have just argued, that they can clearly state: we want this quality leap. For example, an x-number of operations in a hospital. For example, more qualified staff in a particular department. It should then also be made clear what the possible impact could be, for example on the availability of care and on the survival of departments in small regional hospitals. What we do not want is for a standard, once it has been introduced, to have the effect in the aftermath that hospitals, such as emergency care, for example acute obstetrics, have to close because they are no longer able to meet the quality standard. I ask the Minister to respond to these amendments. I suspect they've ended up with the minister by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u20	Yes, they have also been distributed: we are dealing with items Nos. 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u21	Finally. There is a law which many fear will undermine the profession and the medical and nursing activities. Working with quality standards presupposes having confidence in people with knowledge and trusting them to make the right decisions. But also the confidence that they can make a good balance of interests between the money available for care and the quality of care that can be delivered. The emergency brake that the Minister wants to introduce now is damaging that confidence. We cannot even rule out the fact that the Minister's veto here is ultimately going to frustrate the development of quality standards. In our view, the Minister already has many opportunities to invest in or save on care independently of these quality standards. An additional possibility of doing so through widely defined quality standards does not add much to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you. Also for discipline in time. Mr Slootweg has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Ellemeet. Unfortunately, she couldn't be here tonight. On behalf of her, I will ask a number of questions about this law and how it will work. Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are discussing a change to the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. Following this amendment, the Minister shall be empowered not to include a proposed quality standard in the public register because of financial consequences. The proposal is that the Minister may consider the material financial consequences of proposing or changing a quality standard. The CDA Group still has a number of questions about this law. I'll start with the position of the care professionals. The CDA Group wants the law to have the right balance between, on the one hand, the incentive to improve quality in care and, on the other hand, the manageability of care costs, because we also need manageability to keep care accessible and available in the future. The Minister states that health care professionals continue to be responsible for quality standards. However, I do have a question about how to describe the passage that states that healthcare providers and providers do not have to comply with those changes and new elements of the professional standard that meet the risk criteria laid down in the law and could lead to substantial financial consequences. Does this not place the substantial financial impact on the health care provider's plate? I'd like a little more explanation. In particular, I am asking this question because the Council of State has stated in its response that professionals may not find it useful to draw up the substantive professional standards with possible substantial financial consequences, as the proposal discourages healthcare providers from complying with them. How does the Minister see this? How does he prevent caregivers from being discouraged from working hard on better care in the Netherlands, as every day? To date, care professionals, especially in the curative sector, have had to look at cost-effectiveness and efficiency in setting quality standards themselves. Doesn't the Minister take that responsibility away from the professionals with this proposal? Mr President, I see Mr Hijink standing by the microphone and that is why I am waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u24	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u25	On this very last point, I would like to ask a question. There is, of course, some kind of duplication in the Minister's proposal. Creating a quality standard is currently being done by different parties. This is done by the healthcare professionals, that is done by the client organisations and the patient organisations, but that is also done by the health insurance companies and the healthcare offices, because they are also connected. So they're already on the entire route to it. There is already a financial analysis of the consequences of introducing a standard. If even the health insurers are involved in the pre-stage, why does the minister still have to take the ultimate test? That test is already in that entire trajectory, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u26	I still think it makes sense, because there is something I can imagine. But that's more: how does that happen in a trajectory? At some point you can be so busy with the goal you want to achieve, for example a quality improvement, that some slides no longer work. All the checks-and-balances are, like, maybe too much on one side. I understand, therefore, that you are taking a political decision. But it is precisely in this that I do not really hope that the result will be that the parties who have to take care of these checks-and-balances will no longer do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u27	You know our position when it comes to the role of health insurers in the system: we are not their biggest fans. But when they analyze care, they look through financial glasses in particular. You can therefore assume that they will also assess the proposed quality steps in terms of their financial impact when they are at the table with healthcare providers, professionals and patient organisations. That is where a kind of overall package already rolls out for a quality improvement that has also been seen by the health insurance company's glasses. If even the health insurance company agrees to such a high-quality jump, can you almost assume that it has been looked at financially? And then it will be a problem if the Minister says no afterwards, because then on the one hand we have a plan to raise quality, but on the other hand we have a minister who says njet. Then we know we can do better, but we have a minister who says njet. I don't suppose that's gonna explain. If all parties agree, how can we say here 'we don't trust it'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u28	I do think that also the story or picture with health insurance companies could be that in financial... I am looking more closely at the fact that they also have the button of the premium that goes up and that there are other considerations. That is why I do not think it is so crazy in itself, because it is an assessment of collective healthcare expenditure that you should also have the Minister look at it as a representative of politics. Let me put it this way: I wonder whether the automatic stabilisers that Mr Hijink sees are always working well in such a development process. Then I don't think it's so crazy in itself that someone who's outside is going to judge that one more time. I don't think that's at odds with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u29	Finalizing Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u30	I note, however, that it is very strange that the health insurance companies on the one hand are not our choice, but it is the choice of these and previous governments that have a great deal to say in the direction of care. They determine what care should be done, how it is financed, to what extent it is financed. But when they watch the development of how quality can be improved, that confidence is suddenly gone. Then, apparently, that position of the health insurance provider is no longer so sacred and the Minister wants to be able to judge it separately. I think that is simply amazing, and I do not think it is appropriate for this system, although I would be the last to defend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u31	Finally, Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u32	That is why I believe that Mr Hijink is right in how it is likely to go in 99 out of 100 times. I just think there might be exceptions, where that correction, or those checks-and-balances, may not all be there for whatever reason, just because you're involved. Then it doesn't surprise me in itself that you're just looking at the other side, independently from politics, which is the result of that. But I think with Mr Hijink it would probably just turn out this way in 99 out of 100 times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u33	Mr Slootweg continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's authority as an emergency brake. The Minister knows that I always get a little restless with words like "many," "high" or "essential." Does the Minister and the Chamber have the same meaning as "essential"? And why does the law not ensure that the risk criteria of those substantial financial consequences are further tightened, in such a way that it becomes clear when a financial test is necessary? The government states that it only wishes to use the new power in exceptional cases, and I hope that I will come a little closer to what I have tried to explain to Mr Hijink as an emergency brake. Then why is the bill not setting a lower financial limit? How does the Minister view the suggestion of the General Court of Auditors from the 2017 accountability investigation? The Court recommends that the Healthcare Institute should play a greater role in the quality standards for care. She refers to the role of the Healthcare Institute in deciding whether or not to include treatments, such as new medicines, in the basic package. In doing so, the Zorginstituut makes a substantive assessment and gives an opinion to the Minister, and the Minister finally decides on inclusion in the basic package and is accessible to the House of Representatives. Together with Mr Van der Staaij, I have an amendment which seeks to ensure that the Healthcare Institute gives an opinion, a substantive assessment, if the budgetary impact analysis indicates that there is a substantial financial impact. Mr. Chairman. For the CDA-Second Parliamentary Group, it is still too unclear how the Minister is going to weigh up. We know the risk criteria, but not the weighting criteria. The response to the report states that a broad weighting is being made. So from the word "material" we now go to "wide." Can the Minister indicate exactly what a "wide weighting" means? We cannot imagine that quality development will become dependent on the budget surplus in a given year. How is it prevented from introducing a kind of yo-yo effect depending on the economic situation? Would the Minister care to comment on this? Furthermore, the role of the health insurance provider. The Council of State states that the Health Insurance Act system is based on the principle of health insurers and healthcare providers who are free to make agreements on price, quality and volume. These parties are primarily responsible for budgetary control. The Council of State considers that the Health Insurance Act should not fall within the scope of this legislative amendment. Healthcare insurers are primarily responsible for purchasing care for a good price and quality within the Health Insurance Act. The Minister does not share that view. With this change of law, he creates a power to turn those buttons himself. I think that was part of the argument I had with Mr Hijink. If this broad weighting shows that the introduction of a quality standard is too expensive compared to the collective costs, it will not happen. So how is a health insurance company going to deal in the next round of purchases? How does the Minister see this? Then the role and involvement of the House of Representatives. In response to questions from the CDA, the Minister claims that the Minister is fully politically responsible for the decision-making on quality standards and is accountable to them by the Chamber and that he has not chosen a formal front, because decision-making for possible financial coverage already takes place in other ways through the budget. In view of the consequences of the choice of whether or not to include a quality standard in the register, the Chamber will of course be informed. Parliament may request the Minister to provide further information or to reconsider a decision. The Court may also make a disapproval of the functioning of the Minister. Whether or not to adopt quality standards can have an impact on costs, but also on short- and long-term benefits of care. It is often the case that the cost is for the benefit. Think of all kinds of lifestyle measures. We want to increase the involvement of the Chamber by means of a suspension procedure based on the consideration of the Minister. It differs from the procedure proposed by the Socialist Party on a number of points. In my view, the SP opts for a heavier back-up procedure, if I have read the amendment correctly. Together with Mr Sneller, I am tabling an amendment on a slightly lighter suspension procedure. I'd like a response from the Minister. Together with the VVD, we are tabling an amendment incorporating an evaluation clause into the law. We have actually missed it in the law, given the Van Weyenberg/Dijkgraaf motion to include that standard. We have seen that the SP has tabled a similar amendment. Mrs. Laan and I reached, after consideration, four years. We would like to evaluate the law after it enters into force to see whether the decision-making process whereby a balance is made between the use of collective resources and the quality of care provided has had a significant impact on the provision of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr Sneller has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u36	I have a brief question about the amendment on the evaluation clause. In the text of the amendment, I read that it must be about effectiveness, but in the explanatory statement it is really only about expected negative side effects: that it has discouraged too much that quality improvements have been introduced, that it has led to a reduction in the qualities and other concerns, legitimate concerns, of the Council of State. I understand the text that is inserted into the law, particularly in such a way that the evaluation should also consider whether the objective of the law has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u37	Yeah, exactly. That is what we are trying to do with this amendment. Mr. Chairman. It always helps, at least for myself, to see how such a law is going to work by letting go of some concrete cases. I hope the Minister can answer that. My colleague Mr Joba van den Berg has proposed, in the context of care in the region, that, in addition to a budget impact analysis, the Healthcare Institute should be able to carry out a viability analysis, taking into account the effects on the chain. The aim is to include citizens' interests in the preservation of the region's viability in the preparation and assessment of the Emergency Quality Framework. This proposal was adopted by a majority of the Chamber. How does such a proposal work out? Is that really gonna be part of that? A second case is the NZa. She recently proposed that minimum rates should be introduced in order to ensure that sufficient quality of care is provided. Is this a smart instrument, and does this fit within the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u38	I would like to return to the previous point. That was in fact a bit in favour of both of the amendments we tabled on the conditions to be met by a quality standard, and why the NZa would have to check if they were to take that test on financial substantial...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u39	"Substantive financial consequences," if I'm right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u40	Yeah, that, or "wide" or whatever you want to call it. The point is that it is conceivable that standards will be developed that may also affect, for example, the availability of care and access to care. That has happened in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u42	I'm giving you a fictional example. Let's say there's a standard that says that if you had less than 2,000 births in your hospital, you wouldn't be allowed to offer acute obstetrics. It can be chosen as a standard. The argument may also be that we think that the quality is better in hospitals where there are more than 2,000 births. Only, you and I both think that in rural areas too, hospitals should have acute obstetrics. That consideration is not always in the proposed quality standard, but also not in the test that the NZa is going to do. That is why I am asking Mr Slootweg: does the CDA agree with the SP that it would be a good thing that when such a standard is proposed, these aspects are also taken into account? What is access and what is availability, including in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u43	I believe that access and availability are part of quality. That is why I am really curious about the answers and how they work. You have actually mentioned a much more practical and concrete example with these 2,000 births. I do not think this should always lead to cheaper, more expensive or better care. I can imagine, for example, that if there are very few providers left, the market ratio will become such that few providers will be able to ask for a price that you will have to pay. So it may well be that if you spread it a little more, the costs will be lower. So I do not want to say directly that in such an example as Mr Hijink gives, it always leads to cheaper or more expensive care. I think that really depends on the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u44	I very much agree with that. So I think it would be very good if the NZa were to look at that. It would be very good if the NZa advised the minister: this is the financial impact, makes it think, if this continues, it could also mean this and this for availability. Let me give you another example. Today, I asked the Minister written questions about a boy in disability care. His location is being shut down and he's being offered something new 150 kilometers away. Of course, that could happen under the guise of good care. The quality at that location, 150 kilometers away, is better. If that's included in a standard, it's gonna be very problematic for this guy. Because for him quality is also that he can stay at the place where he grew up and where he now lives. So I think that assessment should be made. The purely medical quality is not enough. I think we really need to look at how we not only involve quality, but also availability. I hope the CDA will follow that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u45	I hear, above all, a kind of call and analysis in which I think I can see a lot of aspects. Of this one aspect, too, I cannot say whether a quality standard should be changed or not. That, I think, requires more. But Mr Hijink asks whether he can find the CDA on his side when it comes to accessibility. My colleague Van den Berg has called it 'viability'. I do not think there is much difference at that point. I believe that we still differ on the number of minutes of driving time, but I do not think that we fundamentally disagree on the assumption that availability also plays a role. I do not see Mr Hijink walking away from the interrupting microphone with great confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u46	Well, I think so. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u47	With these two cases, i.e. the one on the viability analysis of Mrs Van den Berg, and also the case on the NZa with the minimum rates, I have actually come to the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you very much for that. Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can imagine that people who are following this debate are still in the gallery and perhaps people at home are still thinking: this is such a technical subject with Haags abacadabra. But then you could just make a mistake, because it's not just a technical thing, it's actually very important. It is really about something, namely the question of who in the Netherlands decides what good care is and what it costs. Is that the health care workers, are they independent institutions or is that politics? And how does the cabinet and parliament actually fulfil their responsibility to control the costs of care? Other speakers have already mentioned the direct cause of the legislative proposal: the Quality Framework for Nursing Services was unexpectedly subject to a price tag of EUR 2.1 billion. Let's be clear, the SGP found that quality improvement in nursing care very necessary. We have also been hoping here, for 'there are too few people, too few hands on the bed'. We were not so unhappy with the outcome, on the contrary; very gladly, that quality improvement in nursing care. But we were actually shocked: what is happening here? The same applies to my group. Is it not very unusual that billions should be earmarked for a policy change, without us being able to find anything of it as a political one? Doesn't that also undermine the Court's budget right to say with laws exactly "these are our revenues and these are our expenses"? No matter how valuable this is, imagine how it would go everywhere. Police officers. How much is it gonna take, anyway? "Well, this is the norm." Or Defense. When people who know how to say "this is what it takes," that's how it happens. Education. How many people are in front of the class anyway? How big should classes be? Let the field parties make a nice standard for that and when they say "this is quality," it is automatically regulated. In the end, it's always choosing in scarcity. That's politics. That is the essence of politics. If you didn't, taxes would have to go up and up. It's got to be paid for. So it was the point of the system, not so much the displeasure about the outcome, which we said: hey, something is actually wrong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u50	Maybe I'm wrong, but the SGP is in favour of that 2% standard for defense, isn't it? We have to stick to that NATO standard, right? Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u51	Yeah, sure. That's a good example. It's a standard that's an obligation for allies. You promised each other, that's what we want to do. But that's not regulated by law. So it's not automatically arranged. There is room for political discussion. One says "I don't" and the other says "well, I think it's important, but let's take 20 years" and another says "no, come on, we agreed this and it has to be done in ten years." But what you spend on one thing, you can't spend on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u52	I just want to say that I think it's weird. When professionals, patient organisations and health insurance companies determine what a good quality of care is and roll out a certain amount of money, Mr Van der Staaij finds that difficult. But the SGP is in favour of saying that 2% of our gross domestic product is going to Defense. If our gross domestic product goes up by 100 billion next year because we've made something brilliant up, there's gonna be a huge extra amount in the defense, when we still have no idea how we're gonna spend it. If you are talking about random money throwing, then of course such a standard is far more unwise than a sensible standard for the quality of care, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u53	But the comparison does not mean that it is a political weighting or that you keep to the agreements you have made with each other. It's another political weighting. You can always say: that's good, but we have a good story to do differently. We have indeed said to each other that there are certain quality calculations behind it. What do you need for a defense? "Well, this would be a good release." In that sense, I am not arguing for it, but it does give me an idea. The same applies, of course, to development cooperation. We have certain agreements on this. So it's fine that we make this kind of deal, but we have to realize that it has consequences, because you can only spend that money once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u54	I actually thought it was a very witty analogy. So I was just thinking about that. We have, of course, seen over the past few years that it has had quite a lot of consequences for politics to have the last word every time and then turn on the budget. Under Bussemaker, nursing home workers were fired. Under Veldhuijzen van Zanten 12,000 were hired again. Another 37,000 were fired under Van Rijn. Under this cabinet, they have to come back. Of course, you're seriously undermining the quality of care of nursing home residents. Then you create a situation in which there are not enough people at the bed every time, or in which the people at that bed are fired again, and then they are expected to come back. Those political fluctuations are therefore, in fact, very undesirable. What does Mr Van der Staaij think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u55	Political fluctuations are often annoying, but they are part of democracy. In that sense it is sometimes difficult, but it also has its advantages that every four years you can choose people who represent you and take responsibility for choices. However, I would like to take Mrs Agema's point seriously, because I think it is a good idea. It used to be purely political to determine what was real. Thanks to the quality standard, Mrs Agema herself has played a very positive and important role in achieving it. I think that's why you're damping those fluctuations anyway, because it does matter whether you're gonna have a discussion without such a quality standard, or if you're gonna say, "Yes, but wait a minute, we see that people who know about it have said that good care is actually that you have so many people at the bed." Then you have to come up with a story when you say "we wanted to slow it down" or "maybe this quality is for a nine, but we're actually going for quality for a seven." Then there is also something to choose, because precisely because you can only spend the money once, it may well be that Mrs Agema's party says 'we are committed to maximum care; choose us', and that another party says: we would like to, but we also think it is very important to do something about development cooperation or to spend extra money on education. The beauty of politics is that there is something to choose and that we make different choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u56	In my opinion, it was a general, Chamber-wide wish, and therefore also a wish of the SGP, to achieve that quality standard for nursing care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u57	Absolutely. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u58	So that analogy is nice and it is also a nice hypothetical discussion to have, but in the end you also have to deal with the concrete reality in which the nursing home resident and his or her carer or nurse are constantly the loser of political fluctuations. It is also precisely this quality standard which has led to this law and which is also described as "unwanted." My question to Mr Van der Staaij is therefore: does he disagree that precisely this quality standard has led to an undesirable development?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u59	It was a great development to get more hands on the bed, to improve the quality of nursing home care. That was a very desirable development. It wasn't so much that you said, "I'm sorry that money has to go to nursing care now." No, not that. It was more the consciousness of "what is the system like now and does it really make sense that it works that way?" Imagine that you and I had already said right in that debate: I see that the ageing population is going much harder and that there is much more recourse to nursing care than we have thought of together and that there is actually a lot of extra money needed to increase capacity and go a lot of money into housing. Perhaps there was more political consideration than said: perhaps we need to spread the quality path a little longer and we also need to give some extra money to increasing capacity. Then perhaps you would have become very angry, and said, "You must not do that at all; you must do both." That is fine, but we would really have had a political debate and could have made that choice. Mr. Chairman. That is why we say: we do understand the purpose of the legislative proposal before us. I immediately thought: oh yes, that is the emergency brake of Dijsselbloem. That is why I was curious to see what the PvdA Group would think now. Unfortunately, he isn't here tonight, but we're going to notice. It also called for an emergency brake to take account of the responsibility of the cabinet for the total cost and the cost of care. I therefore understand the purpose of the present legislative proposal, but at the same time I note that we still have to look very closely at how we are going to shape it. We support and agree that the instrument should be put in place in this way. But how exactly do you do it? We notice that it is best to raise the necessary questions. We therefore want to be very careful and we want this criticism to be corrected. We wonder if this is the best way to arrange it or if it might be possible to do a little better here and there. It is therefore a good thing that several amendments have been tabled. Mr. Chairman. The first point. We have agreed that quality standards are drawn up through consultation between healthcare providers, client organisations and health insurers. So care professionals determine what good care is. The explanatory statement underlying the creation of the Zorginstituut states: "Direct political influence on the content of professional standards is undesirable. The freedom of medical action on scientific or professional grounds must not be influenced by political influence. Political influence could lead to a certain selection being made as a result of political motives on grounds other than expertise. Also, the confidence of field parties would be seriously damaged if, for example, only public cost control purposes would guide the content of professional standards." The amendment we are discussing this evening is, in a way, based on this principle. If it appears that a quality framework has substantial financial implications, the Minister should assess whether inclusion in the register is desirable. That assessment is not purely financial, as is sometimes suggested in the explanatory memorandum, but it also affects the content. In the note following the report, the Minister states: "In the political weighting, the consideration of the added value of the standard for the quality of care in relation to the associated financial consequences obviously plays an important role. For the government, the hardest thing is that there is political support for ultimately incurred costs." I understand that reasoning, but on the other hand it is also risky, because before you know it, every new or adapted quality standard becomes the ball of fierce political crazy. The Minister points out that he considers a political weighting to be necessary only in the event of a substantial financial risk. He therefore proposes risk criteria to determine whether there is a substantial financial risk if the quality standard is widely applicable, and includes agreements on either changing staff standards or introducing a new method of care that costs money. That's understandable. At the same time, however, the Council of State wonders whether they are not so broad that virtually every quality standard will actually end up on the Minister's plate, at least much more often than the three times a year the Minister is talking about. We understand that concern. That's not the point. We're for an emergency brake, but not for a brake that you could kick in at any time. That is why it is just as good to ask whether the criteria in that law are sufficiently consistent with the objective of the emergency braking criteria, and whether these criteria are sufficiently precise. That is also important in order to be able to weigh that properly. What exactly does the AMvB, the general measure of governance in which it is developed, look like? Can the Minister tell us more about this about the current state of affairs? Why has it not been chosen to lay down those criteria set out in the general measure of governance in the law itself in order to create even more clarity in advance? Can the Minister respond to the Council of State's analysis that the proposed procedure could even lead to a substantive change in the concept of "good care" which could ultimately affect the freedom of medical and health care activities? That's what we wouldn't want with each other. I also wonder what the Minister's assessment framework is for determining his choice if there is a substantial financial risk. The General Court has proposed that Mr Slootweg should draw attention to this in order to give the Healthcare Institute a stronger substantive role in the review of quality standards. That is why I have also submitted the amendment which, when there is a substantial financial risk, makes the Healthcare Institute, on the basis of the calculation of the Healthcare Authority, a substantive weighting of the balance between efficiency and quality, just as the Healthcare Institute already does when deciding on the basic package. Mr Slootweg has just explained the amendment we tabled on this subject. I'd like to join that. Finally. A question with a legislative proposal is whether it responds to its purpose, as I just asked, but also whether it can have consequences that we are not aiming at at all. That is why it is a good thing that an evaluation is being carried out. We will also support amendments to evaluate within a few years. I still have a choice between a few variants, but we're gonna think about that. Maybe I should file another one myself to evaluate within two years. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect on two points or indirect consequences that you may see raised here and there. If the Minister cannot make any changes to the quality standards that are laid down on his desk, this could lead to, if he can only say yes or no, that you are already involved informally in that process and that you are actually going to decide what good care is. This can again compete with the principle that care professionals have to determine what good care is. This should not be obscured in advance by political considerations. How does the Minister see this risk and how does he think it should be dealt with? Then there is my second and final point. It is pointed out that quality improvement will by definition lead to higher costs of care. But how do we encourage field parties, especially health insurers, to continue to control the costs of quality standards themselves? They are like: at the end it is the minister who looks at it, so all these difficult financial aspects we do not involve in our deliberations, we do not begin to do so. If it's right, they have a real effect before. That is another type of possible indirect effect on which I would like to hear the Minister's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u60	Thank you for your speech. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this reign, the quality standard in nursing home care was rightly raised, partly because of the manifesto for better care for the elderly, which has already been discussed a number of times today, by Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers. Such an adjustment led to an increase in the healthcare budget in the VWS budget by ultimately structuralally EUR 2.1 billion. We all consider the quality of care to be important, but we also have to deal with the budgetary reality. You don't score points on the street, because it's a Hague phenomenon. Budgetary rules, curbing healthcare expenditure, affordability, it's all part of it. Whether I like it or not, it's relevant. It is also reality and reality can follow the VVD. In order to be able to provide this loving care in the future, we need to handle the available funds carefully. In addition, we sometimes forget that the money of care is not only made available from The Hague, but that the hardworking Dutch also pay for care. Of course, we all want to keep these costs real for our Dutch. I think we can agree on that. The CPB recently presented worrying figures on rising healthcare expenditure and what they will do with purchasing power if we continue on this course, so we all have to remain critical. Quality of care is extremely important, but so is the viability of our inhabitants. In this we need to find a healthy balance. As far as we are concerned, quality of care is at the forefront of this balance. I also believe that this proposal does not affect such an important quality. In exceptional cases, the Minister may decide to spend money differently to meet the quality framework in order to ensure that the costs do not run on the other side. The Minister first informs both chambers. I see it as our job to check the Minister for that. If we think the Minister's decision is incorrect, we will call him to the Chamber, as it should be. How does this minister look at this himself? What does he see as his task? For example, to give to his successor not to take advantage of this possibility? How does this minister consider whether a quality framework is so important that it is worth a lot of money or not? My fellow Members' questions are in line with that. How is quality guaranteed if a minister considers the cost of the quality framework too high? Mr Slootweg has announced an amendment on an evaluation to see how it will work in the future, and that is what we think is very appropriate. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The financial control of collective healthcare expenditure is something that will dominate the entire debate on healthcare expenditure in the coming years. The VVD is therefore in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u62	A question from Mr Hijink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u63	Mrs. Laan says quality is our priority. Nevertheless, she chooses to go on that quality or to be able to cut back. I have just mentioned a number of examples. There's still plenty of profit to be made in care. A third of the time of caregivers goes on bureaucracy. There are still a lot of incentives in this healthcare system that encourage you to do more than is necessary. Why doesn't the VVD choose to handle that first instead of installing an emergency brake now for precisely that which should ensure more quality? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u64	No, from your point of view, I fully understand this remark, but we believe, for example, that profit-making in healthcare can have added value for innovation and for developments. In this sense, our starting points are completely different in the game. I stress that care and quality of care are extremely important to us, but we also think that at some point you should have the opportunity to weigh in this house on the basis of what the board, the cabinet, initially thinks when something is really too much. And that's what you need to talk to each other about. A cabinet, and in this case the minister, can then take a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u65	The VVD has shown that they are champions of savings on care. A lot of care has been transferred to the municipalities, with huge cuts. That was with the utmost ease to organize. You can give more power to the health insurance companies. This is how the VVD does it so that they press on the care and don't give people the care they need. The system is already full of ways of cutting back on care. The health care professionals, together with clients and even the same health insurance companies, have determined what good quality is. I do not understand why the VVD still chooses to say: no, we do not trust them; we believe that the Minister should still be able to say 'no'. I just can't explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u66	There wasn't much of a question in there. I would like to reflect on the colleague's speech: we did not cut back on the cuts. It's not like we all wake up in the morning and think "let's go back to saving money." With the minister who was in office at the time, we have ensured that healthcare expenditure in this country remains manageable and that together we still have one of the best care systems in this world. People like to go to hospitals here because they get the right care here. With each other, and in the long run, the SP will have to believe in that too. You will have to make choices. You're gonna have to say to each other, "What do we still like?', so that the wonderful care system that we have built together will be there in a number of years for our children and grandchildren. That means you have to make choices now and then. We believe that this law gives us the opportunity, not to cut back, but to look critically at and say: we want to do this in a different way as a result of all the opinions that are underneath it at the time. Our basis is that care system cherish and hold, also for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u67	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u68	Yes, Mr President, I am being challenged: the SP must also believe in it and take care of the caregivers. Well, I guess I made a lot of proposals earlier. Hunt the cowboys, the fraudsters who take millions out of care. Take the profits out of care. Get the bureaucracy out of the care. Billions are lost because healthcare providers, caregivers, through the VVD's policy have more paperwork than patients. That is, of course, the real problem we face. But you choose to cut down on the quality, on the quality standards that are set by professionals, while I have made a whole battery of proposals to cut down on profits, bureaucracy and that nonsense of market forces that the VVD has just introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u69	Finally, Mrs Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u70	The last thing the SP keeps coming back to. Fine. We differ completely on that, but that is not at all bad, because that makes the work here so interesting. At the moment, the colleague states that the VVD would be such a supporter of health cowboys, but I would object to that. I don't think so. I think that we are going to have discussions with each other about these people in the near future, about where they are taking advantage of the system and where the money is actually disappearing in the pockets of people not to be mentioned. I have a word in my head now. That money disappears and it doesn't end well; it doesn't come from the people who need it so badly. I think we're gonna love each other very much in that. As far as the regulatory burden is concerned, we are not very much in favour of regulatory pressure; it is one of our starting points. Why don't you go through every election program? I think there are a lot of things that the SP and the VVD have in common, but we don't mind the phenomenon of "earning money." That can lead to very nice things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u71	Thank you. Finally, Mr Sneller has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is very important that good care is and remains accessible, affordable and of good quality in the Netherlands. What this good care means is, in the Netherlands, let the professionals who work in care, the health insurance companies, the health care offices and the people who receive the care, the so-called tripartite parties. They have to deal with care on a daily basis, so it is a good thing that they are first and foremost involved. However, the current process is not yet perfect. It's been mentioned a few times before. When the Quality Framework for Nursing Care was registered in 2017, it was only afterwards that the strong budgetary effects were seen for the gourmets, without control for the minister and without democratic accountability to the Chamber, where the budget law ultimately lies, or in Article 105 of the Constitution; this was illustrated much more colourfully by Mr Van der Staaij. For example, politics was faced with a fulfilled fact. Although it is important to put the tripartite parties in charge, we as the Chamber cannot accept such facts. It is therefore important that we introduce an emergency brake with this law, which allows the Minister to check quality standards for financial consequences. But the emergency brake in the train is hardly ever pulled, only in exceptional circumstances, or, as is often called in this bill, in "exceptional substantial cases," so that the decision what good care is remains primarily where it belongs. Given the high level of collective spending on care, such an emergency brake is wise. With unchanged policies, care costs increase this cabinet period by 14.6 billion structurally. The CPB calculates that this will increase by 16 billion in structural terms to 100 billion per year for the next cabinet period. Such money simply includes adequate democratic legitimacy and accountability. D66 therefore supports the purpose and scope of the legislative proposal, but, like some other groups, still has some questions about its implementation. First of all, I would like to focus briefly on the concern of the Care Institute for Perverse Incentives, for example that quality standards will be cut into several small standards in order to avoid the financial review. I would like to hear a response from the Minister as to why this is impossible. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, the definition. It's been mentioned a few times. Isn't this a little spacious for the intended purpose? The bill serves as an emergency brake for exceptional circumstances, when it comes to a large, substantial financial impact. However, this is assessed against risk criteria which actually seem rather broad, poorly defined or simply vague. Wouldn't it cover many more quality standards and be in line with the scope as described in the explanatory memorandum? Because any quality standard with a wide application, for example one of the thirteen sectors mentioned in the concept of AMvB, but also any requirement above the zero financial investment in, for example, the organisation or a higher staff standard, is already eligible under the letter of the law. Does the Minister also see the risk that this will create, for example congestion at the Healthcare Institute and the NZa, which will get too many questions, or also at the tripartite parties, where the €7,000 in the regulatory printing section seems somewhat optimistic? The consultation broadly shared this point on the definition and scope. The Health Institute therefore calls on the government to be proportionate and wants to be more clear itself. The medical specialists, general practitioners and nurses also call for tightening up. Mr Hijink also referred to the comments of the Council of State on this point. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister: how does he look at these objections? The question is indeed: does he maintain his assessment that there would have been about three quality standards per year in recent years? And if so, what were these and what financial impact should we think about? The two that have already been mentioned, I believe by Mrs Agema, and which have been sent to the NZa for a budget impact analysis, were around 25 million: is that the amount we should think about? That is in stark contrast to the result of 2.1 billion. Without me getting an amount that is "essential," because I think there is a good argument as to why that criterion was not chosen, so I would like to hear something of an order of magnitude that we have to think about. When does it qualify for a "ministerial veto," as it was called, or at least for that budget impact analysis? That's what I like to hear. Then there is the question: does the Minister already see in the AMvB, for which he has already sent the concept to the Chamber but in which only the concept of "widely applicable" is further defined, an opportunity to make those other elements, for which there is room in the delegation clause, more specific? And how is he going to involve the field parties in such a change? And, as I said earlier, I think it is important that the Chamber stays more closely involved in this. In any event, we have tabled an amendment on this point in order to ensure that there will be a provision for the suspension if the AMvB is amended. As colleagues have said, I think it would be very wise to evaluate this bill in a few years' time. In my opinion, this is no longer a matter of non-committality in the overall assessment framework for legislative lawyers, but after the Van Weyenberg/Dijkgraaf motion, which has already been mentioned, this is an obligation. As I said in an interruption debate to Mr Slootweg, I found the amendment somewhat focused on the negative side effects, while I am, in fact, primarily concerned with the question of whether the objective of the law is being achieved. So I would like to hear how the Minister intends to do that, and who he wants to have evaluated. Because I think that is the idea of including such an evaluation paragraph: then we know what data we need to collect during implementation, and then when adopting a law there is something of predictability about who will ultimately evaluate it, so that, for example, it is not up to the Ministry itself to do so. Thirdly, the provision of information to the Chamber. The aim of this bill is to ensure that these large increases are more democratically legitimised by quality standards. This means that we, as elected representatives of the people, have more control over this. But in the bill, I don't read much about the provision of information to the Chamber. It is really only a question of informing the Chamber after the decision has already been taken, without any time limit attached to it. Have I read this correctly, I ask the Minister. Why did he choose to keep it so to speak, let me put it this way, so to speak, to himself? As far as I am concerned, as Mr Slootweg has already pointed out on the amendment that I have co-signed, we are simply receiving that proposed decision. Apart from heavy front or light front, I think that's also the difference from the SP's proposal to change the law. That is a little earlier in the process, and I think it would be a good idea for the Chamber to have the Minister's decision before it and not so much what went from the Health Institute to the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally. It says a number of times that the Minister will really, really, seriously, no, not make a substantive assessment, but only look at the finances. At the same time, he described, and Mr Van der Staaij also mentioned it, that it would eventually be a balance between the additional costs and the added value for the quality of care. Now, as a financial spokesman, I really like purely financial considerations, but since I became a financial spokesman two years ago, I haven't seen one. So my question to the Minister is: does he acknowledge this? How does he want to deal with that tension? Can he color a little more in front of the Chamber how he wants to deal with that trade-off? He gives himself four weeks to find cover even outside the spring decision-making period. I also like to learn from him. How does he think he's gonna find that cover? I hear he's got tricks. We're gonna hear it in his answer! How does he think he can find it, if, for example, he sees the added value for the quality of care, but his colleagues in the Council of Ministers with whom he should agree under the law, do not see the budgetary space over the framework of care anymore? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u73	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend the meeting until 8:30. Then the Minister will reply and respond to the eight amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u74	The next item is the continuation of the consideration of the Financial Review Act proposed quality standards. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor for his first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Chamber for the many questions and sometimes very detailed and thorough speeches that have been made. I think it's good that I sort of sort out the questions that have been asked. I start with the questions about why this law is: why is it necessary to adopt this law? The second is the what and the how of this law. Most of the questions were asked about the criteria. A large number of questions were about what happens if you say no to a new quality standard: how does it go on? So that question about how do I want to answer in the second block? Then I have some questions that I put under the name "varia," because that is now just tradition. Finally, I would like to review all the amendments tabled. Mr. Chairman. First, the questions that affect the why. I think you have had a very good debate on this. Mrs Agema, in particular, gave a very detailed account of the why, the need, the need to establish the quality framework: how did this happen and why was it so important? Mr Van der Staaij spoke very well about the need for substantive standards. Everyone, Chamberwide, was concerned about the quality of nursing home care, and for years the discussion with the field was: what is the standard, the standard, which you have to meet? In all other sectors there are all kinds of standards that you have to meet, but that did not really apply to nursing care and that was problematic. What are you supposed to do? Carin Gaemers and Hugo Breast have made a huge contribution. They have inspired the social debate and have given the wind to this social and political debate. That has, I think, greatly helped to achieve a standard. That development was the achievement of a standard and the provision of additional financial resources was, on its own, highly desirable, but what was not desirable was the fact that politics then actually had no say, had no say anymore. I have just heard Mr Hijink say that. I had never heard that in Dutch, but apparently that is just possible. Politics had nothing to say about the financial implication that then had. That's where it's gonna wring, not because the political parties didn't believe that extra money should go to nursing care. In Healthcare Choices in Map, in which the CPB makes all the choices of the different political parties transparent, you see that all parties had to a lesser or more extent put pluses on the budget for nursing home care. It's gonna wring because that wasn't a politically-discussable event anymore. Why is that problematic? A number of times the word "budget law" has been mentioned. In any case, it is a question of the political responsibility for collective expenditure. In the end, collective expenditure must be borne collectively. They are collected through tax collection or premium collection. These two are very similar, especially when it comes to long-term care: inevitable, just to pay. The consequence for the citizen is an account deposited with the citizen. Someone in politics should be able to take responsibility for that. This political responsibility implies that this policy also has control over it, because if the political responsibility has no control, it naturally undermines the political system. We do not really want that on any level, and yet that could be the result. It was therefore desirable to have the substantive movement of quality standards. It was also desirable that more funding should be made available for this purpose. You can just see from what the different political parties found at the time, what congresses found, what party programs prescribed. Only that which had to be booked without political discussion, that was the undesirable part of it. It was exceptional, too. That is what we have to say at the same time. That is why I do not think this is a history that is going to repeat itself very often. I shall come back to that in a moment. For example, it was exceptional that this was not a quality framework created by tripartite parties but that it had to be forced into being. It was the Quality Advisory Committee of the Healthcare Institute that had to use its perseverance to create a quality framework. The second thing that was exceptional about it was that there was a staff standard in this quality framework. That too is not very common. The third thing that was exceptional about it was that it was actually a correction to the situation at the time. I think Mrs Agema has indeed described this. And why? That had everything to do with deleting zzp 1, 2 and 3. That was because the target group in nursing home care now asked for a lot more complex care, which the budget had not been adapted to until then. That is why it was also at once a rather shocking correction to the development that was already going on in practice. So this was really an exceptional situation. I don't think you should expect this to happen again. At the same time, it did happen. And it also made it clear at that time that there is something strange in our system. You could say there's been an omission in our system. And again, not because that development was undesirable, but because the lack of political discussion was undesirable. Politics must be able to represent the impact on collective spending. It must be possible to assume political responsibility for this. And that can't be automatism. Mr President, that is why. A number of specific questions have also been asked that touch on that why. Mrs Agema asked: why are the current possibilities for limiting the macro-budget not sufficient? There are a number of possibilities to influence the cost of care. The way you organise care has an effect on the cost of care. The way you fight fraud has an effect on the cost of care. The way you fight bureaucracy has an effect on the cost of care. These are things that have an impact on the costs of care, which, although they do not have a billion-dollar impact, are also very important to control the costs of care. I mention, for example, the removal of production incentives. This indeed has an important impact on the costs of care. So you have to take all these measures. In our system there are actually two large buttons that can be turned to have an impact on the macro budget. I'm just predicting that we're gonna be talking a lot about those buttons. One button to turn on with an impact on the macro budget concerns the size of the package. Politics is usually not good at closing that button further. Every attempt to do this is being discussed quite exuberantly here in this house. I understand that too, because it is not easy to say to people: once this was insured care, but not anymore. In fact, the whole discussion about deleting zzp 1, 2 and 3 in the Wlz has been such a discussion about the width of the package. That is a discussion that we enjoy politically for years, you could say, or we should say that it has a huge impact on implementation practice. If you reverse the film further, that has been one of the reasons for the correction of the 2.1 billion. So that has a huge impact. And yet, those package discussions will also take place in the coming period. I'll tell you how I'm gonna be in there later. Secondly, I would like to mention its own contribution, its own payments. That's also a big button to turn on. You can bring your own payments up and down. Moreover, raising own payments is not a popular discussion. So can you make decisions with an impact on the macro budget, with a real impact on the macro budget? Yeah, they're about the package. Yeah, they're about own payments. And these are both discussions that we are not easy to conduct in politics. I am not saying that they will never be fed in the near future, but I am saying that this is one of the reasons why we need to work very hard on the way we organise our care. That is one of the reasons why we are working on the contour note, with this huge ageing population coming up. This increases the demand for care in the future, knowing that the labour market is tight. By now, you all know the numbers by heart. In that discourse, the choice is too obvious to look at the package or its own payments. But if we do that, we will also do something at the same time with what we may think is the most beautiful and most important of our system, namely the enormous solidarity we have organized in our system. In our system it doesn't matter how big your wallet is: the care is accessible. In our system, it doesn't matter how big your wallet is: the same good doctor is on your bed. I think that's worth a sweet thing to us. Now, if you were to reduce the package very much, and so more should be done through supplementary insurance, that would do something with solidarity. If you were to increase your own payments, it would do something with solidarity. I am not saying that it will never happen in the years to come, but I am saying that we will actually have to take all the other measures that we could also take in order not to have to turn those buttons, given the macro-budget. Or given the labour market, because it is also relevant. That's what the contour note is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u76	It is interesting to look again at how we look at the total cost of care. Not only do I hear it from this minister, but I also hear it much more often: we are always only looking at what we collectively spend as a society on healthcare costs. The Minister already says: you can choose to increase your own contribution or to further undress the package. These are measures that may reduce the level of care that you, as a government, need, but of course, it does not mean that care will be cheaper in itself. You can give people who are unlucky to be sick the bill. But that doesn't make care cheaper. It's moving the bill. I heard Wouter Bos say: you could abolish domestic aid and only make it available to people who are on welfare. But that doesn't make care cheaper. Then you're just gonna move the bill to the people who are unlucky to need the care. I would like to ask the Minister: can he also look at the cost of care from that side? What does it mean if we choose not only to look at what we collectively pay, but also at what we pay together, so if you also include what people themselves have to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u77	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u78	That is a very fair question from Mr Hijink. We have had a debate on this before. I think we were in agreement in that debate: it is true. That's actually what I just said. It is true that if you are dealing with your own payments, macro costs on the part of the national budget will be controlled or possibly even reduced. It also matters how hard you turn that button. But it undermines solidarity. Because in the end, you're gonna leave a bigger part on people's own account. The OECD always puts that kind of state together neatly. The Netherlands is the lowest or almost the lowest when it comes to the question of which part of people have to pay themselves. It doesn't always feel that way. For people who are chronically ill, for example, it doesn't always feel like this. This has been the important reason for introducing the subscription rate. For the people with a build-up of care costs, we have made a huge contribution. This also applies to the halving of the own payment in the Wlz. All these measures that we have taken this cabinet period are about people's own payments. It's all about those people who experience a build-up of care costs. If you look at the total budget for all expenditure on care and then look at what percentage of it is an own payment, you can see that the Netherlands is out of my mind at 11%. All the way across the spectrum are the United States. There, on average per capita, is very much spent on care. What is being spent collectively and through own payments is very unevenly distributed. A lively debate is also taking place on this subject. There are great differences of opinion. In North-West Europe, people are used to collect more and more and to assume more that you arrange it in solidarity with each other. I think that people, if they had to put into words what they actually think is the most beautiful feature of Dutch care, might actually call that solidarity among themselves. That's what I always think I hear in the Chamber. Young also pays for old, healthy for sick and rich for poor. We have noted in an earlier debate that the SP wants to go even further in this respect, but internationally, the solidarity in this system is enormous. I think that we want to keep it as long as possible and as good as possible, because organising that solidarity is simply very important for the support of our concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u79	Of course, I agree on this direction, because we do want to go much further with this solidarity in the care sector. But I'd like to make this point. When, for example, I hear colleagues from the VVD talking about the cuts that have been made and the burdens that have been placed on the people now and under the previous government after decentralisation, I think it is important that the Minister should continue to emphasise this. It is a pity that the PvdA is not here. So when we talk about the cost of care, those costs will not be reduced if you move the bill to individual citizens who are unlucky to be sick. But if we agree on that, then that's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u80	I think it is quite right for Mr Hijink to mention this, because you must take that into account. I'm gonna say one more thing about that button we can turn. You mentioned a number of examples, Mr Hijink, just like Mrs Agema. I said: they all actually work to keep costs under control. Of course, you can look through financial glasses at the sustainability of healthcare expenditure. If you look at the healthcare expenditure compared to the rest of the state budget, you can see that healthcare expenditure is growing so fast that it can sometimes replace the other expenditure. Of course it is. At the same time, I have always said that I have a much greater concern than financial care. Because we are a very united country, I do not think that we are running into the bumper of affordability, but against the bumper of organizability. The way in which we have organised it is already taking care of the labour market is very big. If you let the ageing process work on you, you know it's gonna get a lot bigger in the next few years. The debate we had yesterday was about the extent to which the quality framework can be achieved. Well, that's where we're best on schedule. But we also discussed that another race is beginning to catch up with us and that is the competition that is about the growth of demand for nursing care. It will not continue to grow as exponentially as in recent years. This seems to me to be particularly important in view of demographic developments, but at the same time there is a doubling of the number of 80-plussers. If you don't organize the care a little differently, you'll never make it through this labour market, apart from the finances. So you're really gonna have to organize the care differently. For these two reasons, I'm always so keen on that organizationalism. Its affordability is important, but its organizational capacity will be much more problematic than it is anymore. That's one. Two. All the costs you can control by organising care differently, more prevention, more innovation and the regional resolution of this huge fragmentation across the domains, you do not have to cut down on the package or control it through your own payments. The extent to which we have the courage to make the right decisions in the future about how we organise our care will determine the extent to which we will have to reduce solidarity. I say that as an encouragement to myself, but also to your Chamber, because none of us want that. We want to put that on the table as the very last option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u81	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u82	I was indeed a bit distracted by a very beautiful subject, a subject that I am very much working on. I know that Mr Hijink is, too, and we were both impressed by that. Mr. Chairman. Back to the law! The SP says: the health insurance company and the healthcare office also look at the financial consequences. Then why isn't that enough? Indeed, that is almost always sufficient, because the health insurance provider is indeed looking at the efficiency of quality standards. This usually leads to the financial consequences being highly manageable. This was, of course, an exception, a huge exception, also because there were no health insurance and a health care office at the table. They have advised, but they were not at the table to work there perhaps somewhat disciplined. But it is also an exception, because a huge correction has been made to the past. However, health insurers and health offices are of course not politically responsible or accountable to the total of collective spending. Suppose the cabinet had to say: 'Okay, we're taking this increase in expenditure, but unfortunately we have to tell the 2 billion or stories in Defense', which would have meant that Mr Van der Staaij had to be scratched off the ceiling of anger, 'or at education', which would have meant that Mr Jetten had to be fished out of the chandelier. Yes, of course we would have had a very complicated debate with each other! A health insurance company does not have to answer to this Chamber, but a cabinet does, of course. In short, the responsibility for collective spending is really a political responsibility. That's the way it's supposed to be. It is always choosing in scarcity, as Mr Van der Staaij rightly said, and that is why this emergency brake belongs here. That was, I think, a nice paraphrase from D66: it is indeed not a brake, but an emergency brake. A brake is certainly not the intention. An emergency brake isn't something you hang on every day on the train. You only do that a few times a year, and we only do this a few times a year. How does the Minister ensure that he does not sit in the carers' seat? In fact, nothing changes the way quality standards are created. All the way to the end, there is one thing that changes, namely that a test is taking place. But in the way those standards are created, in the way professionals determine what knee surgery should look like, there is no minister standing next to it, because ministers have no sense of that. That's what professionals have to judge with each other. They must assess the state-of-the-art performance of knee surgery. That should not be a political decision. What should be a political decision is the question of what degree of seizure of collective spending is acceptable. If you want to draw the parallel, you should say: politics should not sit on the chair of the professional, but the professional or the health insurance provider should not sit on the seat of politics either. At least there has to be a political debate before you actually charge the result of that professional standard with a substantial financial effect for collective spending, because that happens to be the domain of politics. So if we're all gonna sit on our own chairs, it's gonna be okay, you could say. Mr. Chairman. That was the first block, namely the block over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u83	It's why, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u84	Yeah, sorry, the why. Excuse me. Mr. Chairman. Okay, let's get this over with. A serious number of questions have been asked about this and they are almost all about the way in which this review takes place in the end. So nothing really changes the way it is delivered. This is done either by the tripartite parties or by the advisory committee of quality, which, in some cases, has power of perseverance. Next, the Healthcare Institute will review... Parties present something to the Healthcare Institute, in the vein of: we thought it had to be done, this is our new quality standard, would you perhaps register it? Then the Healthcare Institute asks to indicate whether that quality standard contains new or modified standards that can lead to substantially higher costs. Next, the Healthcare Institute or parties that have provided qualitative assessment will review that assessment of those substantial financial consequences. A number of criteria have been set for this at law level. Those are personal criteria. Is there a FTE standard in here that leads to substantially more people? This was the case, for example, in the Quality Framework for Nursing Home Care. Or is there higher training requirements, which means that you have higher qualifications and a higher grading, so that you make more costs along that path? That's the human side. Then you also have the material side. Is a technological innovation required, for example, which requires a great deal of investment, or is a square meteor journey added or are there other physical requirements? That's the material side. Those two elements are in the law. There is one more thing, namely 'wide applicability'. It has to be about a substantial number of patients or clients, otherwise you can make a high demand, but if there are very few patients, the financial impact will still be very low. That has been stated at the level of the law, and you are right to say that it is a little spacious. That's what the Council of State actually says, that it's a little spacious. So maybe you're going to put in a lot of things and that might also mean that you're going to put in so much that it's not an emergency brake anymore, but indeed a brake. Of course you shouldn't want to. We must therefore lay down the detailed rules at AMvB. You have seen a concept AMvB, but that really was a first concept. It hardly gave any real clarification of the legal text. We are now continuing with the field in consultation on how these criteria should be further implemented. I have also seen the amendment, I shall respond to it later, tabled by D66 and the CDA, I believe. I will come back to that in a moment. In any case, it was the amendment on the pending procedure. I understand that very well. I'm gonna work it out with the field. We are going to start a consultation round with the field, to be sure that we do justice to what you put forward here and what the Council of State also points out: be selective and do not interfere with everything. Be selective and only do it with substantial consequences. This AMvB, which is finally established after consultation, we will first hang here in the Chamber. I will come up with a formal opinion on the amendment in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u85	That is certainly a good route, a front and ensure as precise a delineation as possible in the AMvB. However, there is a question before us. If you're back on with that AMvB, isn't it possible to get parts of it, additions and clarifications already at the level of the legal text? Does the Minister still want to reflect on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u86	I'd find that too precise. Take for a moment the phenomenon of wide applicability. You actually have two important criteria, one staff and one material criterion. You can also weigh both to the extent to which they are widely applicable. Suppose I put a number in the law for that broad applicability, that I would say it should be about at least 40,000 patients. Then I think you would say: why should this precision be in the law, say, what is that crazy? It's really about numbers that you're trying to fill out next. I think that makes sense at the level of an AMvB, but at the level of the law I would find that an overly precise approach. In fact, I would find it neater to do so at the level of the AMvB and to say at the level of the law which glasses you look at "essentially." That has a staffing side and a material side. The human side has a FTE side and a training side and the material side concerns technological investment-sensitive decisions that are in such a quality standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u87	That's right. As far as this quantitative interpretation is concerned, this has also been discussed in the documents, at least the Minister has convinced us that this is not the right way forward. I was curious to see whether the work on this concept of AMvB has also led to some kind of qualitative specialities that you might say: is it not really an idea to further anchor them at the level of the legislative text?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u88	No, that's not the case. That would be the case if we could add a new type of criterion. You look at the human side and at the material side and you look at whether it is widely applicable. Those two criteria are then actually examined by the glasses of the size of the target group. If a third criterion would be added when writing that AMvB, you certainly have a point. But actually everything we think of in the details is either under the umbrella of staff or under the umbrella of equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u89	Okay, clear. Mr Hijink on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u90	I have a bit of a problem with the fact that we are going to have to vote on a law which contains these very broad criteria, when we really have no idea of what we are going to do. It's about what's "essential." The Minister does not want to say, for example, that this is 10% growth. I also understand that very well, because that means that you are going to steer the whole process enormously prior to that. But then what is it? We will have to vote on this law later, even though we have no idea what kind of criteria we should be thinking about in the sector. It's not about numbers, but what is it about? Even in what you said in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij, it does not make it any clearer to me, not even when it comes to what we can expect in lower regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u91	So the criteria I mentioned just now are regulated at the level of the law, i.e. the personnel side, the material side. You then weigh both by determining the size of the target group to which those criteria apply. This is because it determines the extent to which this is substantial: either a major profession, or not, of collective expenditure. That's the first thing I'm gonna say about that. The second thing I say about this is: of course, it must be an emergency brake that you only pull a few times. So if you put the criteria too tight there and if that amendment, which I will be voting on later, is adopted, then there will be far too much left on the screen and then I have to write to the Chamber too often: hello, I have got a quality framework that the Health Institute wants to register, but it has a substantial financial effect and I intend to reject it. So I think your room actually has the opportunity at two points to say: no, but this wasn't exactly what we meant. That is actually what I hear in Mr Hijink's question. The first review is the moment when I have completed the AMvB, after consultation with the field, and sent it to the Chamber. Then Mr Hijink can say: yes, I think this has been a good and adequate interpretation, or not, of the debate we have had on the law. So it could go either way. But of course I am going to do my best to do it in such a way that you say: yes, that is indeed in line with the debate we have had. That's the first time. The second moment of assessment for the Chamber is when those criteria are actually applied and I make my intended decision known to the Chamber. I say this, although we must, of course, deal with the amendment formally. At that point in time, the Chamber can say: I do not really agree with this balance, and I do not really think that this is a very substantial burden on collective spending at all. That is the second moment when the Chamber can say: no, I do not agree with this. Mr Hijink's question is: can I be reassured if I do not know exactly what those criteria are? I say to that question: yes, you can rest assured of that, because of the debate we are having now, because of the authority that the Chamber itself has in determining the AMvB, and because of the fact that any decision I take under this law, the Chamber can exercise its influence on this decision through a veil.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u92	I'm not so sure about it yet. This is because, of course, we hear all kinds of noises from the healthcare sector. That's what they say: watch out, because those criteria are so broad and we don't know what it's gonna look like yet. Mr Van der Staaij has just said: it is not so much a question of filling these very broad criteria with numbers. And then the minister just said to me: you're going to look at, for example, the numbers of patients affected by a certain criterion. So it's going to be about numbers in that AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u93	Yes, in the AMvB, yes, but not at the level of the law. That was Mr Van der Staaij's question, and I say to that: not at the level of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u94	Of course, but then, of course, we will have exactly the same problem as we already have with the law, namely that it is almost impossible to do. If you are going to mention numbers in an AMvB, for example, numbers of patients, or certain percentages of budget increase, then you are going to have to deal with exactly the same point as we were just talking about. In the process prior to making that standard, the glasses of: ho, wait a minute, what is the impact on the number of patients, what is the impact on the increase in the required budget? So we have exactly the same problem that we already have because these criteria are so broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u95	I am going to try to explain it to Mr Hijink as best I can, because I think his concern can be taken away. Mr Van der Staaij's question was: what is being regulated at the level of the law, and what at the level of the AMvB? And shouldn't you be a little more precise at the level of the law? I have said that this does not seem appropriate to me, because that would mean that you are actually introducing it to the level of numbers at the law level. Because that's actually what you need to put down an adequate, clear "sieve" at the Healthcare Institute. That is a sieve that the Chamber should be able to decide on, so I understand the pending procedure of that AMvB perfectly. It's just not something you should be regulating at law level. I think we agree. So we'll go to the AMvB. In that you must indeed specify the criteria laid down in the law. I am therefore referring to criteria on the personnel, FTEs, the level of education, the material side, the investment-sensitive material side and those glasses of the size of the target group. We will. I will do so, including the discussion we have had here. Then I'm gonna check that out on the field in a consultation round and then I'm gonna prep the AMvB in the Chamber. At that time, the Chamber could say 'this is an adequate interpretation of the political debate we had when we discussed the law'. That is an important moment, because the Chamber can also say no to such an AMvB. She can also send me out to sharpen the AMvB even further. I think that's an important moment. Then the law enters into force, with that AMvB. It contains the sieve used by the Healthcare Institute. Let us say that I have just adjusted that sieve a little too tight and that it regularly prevents a quality standard from being presented with a substantial financial effect according to those criteria. I shall then have to decide and refer that decision to the Chamber. Then, in every individual decision that is taken, you can say: Minister, have we not adjusted that sieve too tightly and should we not return to even more substantial? At those moments you have the opportunity to say as a politician, as a Lower House, "that's what we meant when we laid down the law" or "that's not what we meant."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u96	Finalizing Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u97	I understand what the Minister is saying, but the outcome is the same, namely that in the law it does not happen, but it does appear in the AMvB: numbers, percentages and so on. Then what's gonna happen? The various parties concerned are health professionals, health insurance companies, client organisations, and may act accordingly; precisely for which the Minister has warned. If you set such a standard and know that it should not result in more than 1% increase in the budget because otherwise the minister will say no, then you will stay under it. Then cut it up and do it in stages. Precisely what the Minister has just warned us about is about to become a reality through the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u98	I don't think so. You shouldn't be. I don't handle a financial line or anything. It would then be very easy to cut the formation of quality standards. That's why I don't use a financial line, because then I get too strategic behavior. I am in favour of a coherent approach to these criteria. It is true that these criteria have an effect on those who make a quality standard. That may be so, but otherwise it will become arbitrary. If I say that I do not use criteria when weighing or have a financial risk, then it becomes arbitrary. Then it ends up with me. If something has a substantial financial effect, a budget impact analysis is made by the NZa. That budget impact analysis goes back to the Healthcare Institute and if the budget impact analysis is greater than zero, it will be submitted to me. Then how do I look at it? In the case of a small burden on collective expenditure, I do not think that the Minister should decide'subscribe but not enter'. I don't think that's wise. I think this is a sensible amendment. In it, we have opted for a suspension procedure for each individual decision that I take. So the Chamber can test: does the Minister always have an opinion on quality standards, or does this law do what we have meant, namely the application of an emergency brake instead of a brake? So the degree of proportionality...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u99	The answer is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u100	In my view, it is also an indication for the Chamber whether we are on the right track and whether we are doing justice to the content of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u101	I think we had a good discussion on this point. I hear the Minister saying that it is really important that there should be a definition of these concepts in an AMvB and that he understands that it is widely said that the wordings are broad. I have a very small technical point, but I think it is important: would it not be good legislation to say that this general measure of governance should not be a can-determine but should just be introduced? So we shouldn't make that optional in the law, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u102	Imperative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u103	Yes. Would the Minister consider giving us a letter of amendment on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u104	I've been torn apart internally. I very much sympathise with Mr Van der Staaij. I just think he has a point, but there is so passionately no shaking on that side, that I think it is wise to come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u105	That seems very sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u106	That seems wise to me, because otherwise we're going to be doing a lot of freestyling. I think this has been answered in this way. I'm moving on. I think I have had a lot and perhaps all the questions about this concept of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u107	You said that you wanted to talk about the criteria, but you also wanted to say specifically about the no. I don't know if you still...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u108	If you refuse, then what happens? A next set of questions is about that. In particular, Mr Hijink has asked for this, but others have also hinted at it. I think it's okay to name those, too. The minister has to look at it with financial glasses. A purely financial look is quite difficult. Mr Van der Staaij said it was sanding. D66's financial spokesman had never actually taken a purely financial decision. I understand that, honestly, because you always make a financial decision in the context of "yes, but what's it worth to us?" So it's not just the question "what does it cost?', but also to ask "what's it worth to us?" Just "what's it cost?" Is a question you should ask accountants. The question "what's it worth to us?" Is a question you have to ask politicians. That's a political judgment. That 2.1 billion was indeed a lot of money. That's right. It was worth it, at least, Mrs Agema, but I think everyone actually said: it's worth it to us. Even though not all parties had entered that amount in their election programme, when the sum "this quality and this staff standard bring these additional costs" came with them, it was worth it to us. So you're always looking not only at what it costs, but also at what it's worth. That way, you have that decision to make. I think the best thing is that I have to answer for that decision. If I were to sit there grocery, to say the least, homely, you would say, "You're grocery shopping." But it's different if I have a good story. This could be from the point of view of the burden on collective expenditure or, looking at it in a different way, reminiscent of our discussion, because it is too burdensome for the organisability of the concern that we add so much to such a small part of the care. That would mean over-reliance on the labour market with that small part of care, so that that part of the labour market is no longer available to other sectors of care. That could, I think, be a good line of argument with which I could convince you, because of the breadth in which you have to look at the healthcare system. It is always about quality, but it is also about accessibility and affordability. Those three things always have everything to do with each other and also have a certain trade-off. If I were to steer very much towards affordability, the quality would probably decrease. If quality is controlled without limit, if costs never matter again, then you will lose on affordability. It's taking off. If you call too heavily on the labour market because you think that the quality bar should be set super high and that every surgery on your knee should have 30 men in the operating room...................................................................................................................................................................................... You can not only spend that money once; you can only bet those people once. In short, the quality, accessibility and affordability have everything to do with each other. These will be the glasses I have to deal with politically. I shall then refer that political consideration to the Chamber. That doesn't take away the quality standard. It was considered important by the tripartite parties. But because I have reason to state why I do not want to have this quality standard registered with the Healthcare Institute in the register, that motivation will also have to be looked at again. I am assuming that this motivation will lead to a new balance. Mr Van der Staaij asked: how do you prevent it from becoming a bit intransparent? I don't know exactly what word he was using, but he actually asked how to prevent my final political judgment from being involved in the creation of the quality framework. After all, the process gets a little messy, and you really shouldn't want that. You must want the quality standard to be made with the quality in mind, and of course also affordability. After all, health insurers and health offices are also at the table, tripartite. Employers need to see if they can deliver and man that. I think this can be done by doing the process as we have proposed here. The quality standard is made. It will then be assessed whether there are substantial financial implications. It is then up to the Minister to look at them through the glasses of not only affordability and not only costs, but also accessibility and quality. That way, I think, you should look at the healthcare system as a politician at all. On the basis of these criteria, I have to argue why I want or not to have a quality framework registered in the register. You can test whether I'm doing the right thing and whether I'm making the right decision. Perhaps I am not making that assessment sensible, but then it will be transparent. The tripartite parties will then have to look at how they are going to adapt them. It is then up to them to make an adjustment which they nevertheless consider to be justified. That is the subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mrs Agema has another point on this. After that, go to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u110	I have one small point in fact and not really a question, Mr President. I hear the reference to Choices in Map made a few times, but with the presentation of Choices in Map on February 16, 2017, the amount was not yet known. Therefore, the parties could not know what they were booking, because no one knew how big the amount was. It is still my wonder that the VVD was the only party that knew how big the amount was, while the impact analysis only came on 21 March. That was six weeks after Choices in Map. Everyone just took a swing in the air. That is why it is no one's fault that none of the parties that had ever entered EUR 2.1 billion in their election programmes, because they just didn't know. Except for the VVD. And why that is, we'll probably never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u111	I don't know. I don't know. By the way, you have that timeline much better on the retina than I do. But I think it is true that the impact analysis of the NZa was just not ready at the time that Choices had to be made in Map. I think it is also true that there were differences between the parties. The beauty of the whole CPB overbooking of election programs is that if you spend a lot of money on one thing, you'll have to cut it on the other. That's not always easy when you're making an election program. I have been allowed to do this a number of times; that is quite a complicated puzzle. So that's right. Who knew what at what time? I don't know. But the budget impact analysis hadn't been made yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u112	No, that's why. And that is why I think it is not to be blamed that, for example, the PvdA had only booked 300 million, because they just didn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u113	I don't mean it as a reproach, in no way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u114	No, but it can't be used as an argument either. We all just didn't know. The additional investment impulse was 856 million euros. That's what we thought was a huge amount of money. Van Rijn insisted that the Agemaalten had always been there, while there was a deficit of 2.1 billion. My point is this: it is not a question that the parties should be blamed for the choices in Map and the decisions they have made to do or not to do anything, in the direction of the EUR 2.1 billion, which was simply not known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u115	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u116	Or just the VVD. We'll never know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u117	I don't know. To be honest, I don't think he was familiar with the VVD either. I think that's because the budget impact analysis wasn't made. I think that was just a choice they made. You have the timeline much better in mind than I do, but apart from that, it was only when the quality framework was created that a qualitative standard was introduced for the first time. I believe that this was the most important objection for a number of years, when no quality framework was established. That, I think, has also made the sector vulnerable in the entire blacklist episode. This, I think, has made the sector vulnerable when the target group of nursing care was increasingly heavy, but the budgetary consequences were not yet linked to it. There was no benchmark, there was no bar to check, there was no standard to check. That makes it vulnerable. Once you have a quality standard, it doesn't always have to be a staff standard, in which you can say what you find good care, you can start to count: if this is what we call good care, what should it cost? Until then, all cost analyses, dating from the 2009 election programmes, were indexed, but these were always cost prices determined on the basis of a kind of average of what to do in the sector. Indeed, money had been put on top of it with the Agema money, that's right, but because they wanted to do something, without being able to normalize whether that was enough or too little. There was just a lot of money added with those Agema funds, but always based on a basic calculation of the cost that dates back to 2009, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u118	I'll give Mrs. Agema another chance, but I'd like to say one more sentence. The reconstruction of the past is important, but I think you are very much in agreement. Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u119	Yeah, that's right, but I do think these kinds of reconstructions should be right. With the introduction of care gravity funding in 2009, there had been a shortage, because the Minister of Finance had a button in his hands to adjust and simply removed 150 million every year. When we started to make the coalition agreement, it came to light that the cost price was 95% at the time. Those Agemaalden, the 856 million, were exactly 5%. That's how it came about. So we reached 100% of the cost. So there was a guide to what that care should cost in 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u120	The cost was what was spent on average. That's the point. At the moment when you do not have a clear quality standard, a cost is what is on average spent in the sector. That is more a calculation of the average price than that it is a standard of what something has to cost to achieve a certain quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u121	Yeah, but that's where De Jager, the then finance minister, was just sitting. It could also be 99% or 98% or 95%. And he did it without the Chamber knowing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u122	That seems strange to me, because a Chamber has to agree to a budget. It seems hard to me to do that without the Chamber knowing anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u123	I suggest we leave history here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u124	I told you, you've studied the timeline much better than I have. I deal mainly with the bill here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u125	Then I think Mr Hijink will say no. The minister was almost ready for the varia, so I'd like to keep up the pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u126	No, I understand that, but I would like to say something about the Minister being too optimistic about the way this is going to go later. He says he's an emergency brake. I think he's gradually becoming an automatic system that's going to slow down trains, like the ERTMS, my neighbor just said. Creating a quality standard is a complicated process. Different parties need to agree on this: healthcare professionals, health insurance companies, patient organisations. That's complicated enough as it is. If, as a kind of dark cloud, the Minister's opinion hangs above that, then you can say thunder that they are already starting to think in preparation about what the consequences are and what the Minister is about to do. I do not think it is possible to say that things are going to go well, but you simply have to acknowledge that, and perhaps that is even the intention of the Minister that they should have in mind: wait a moment, not only quality here, but also that silly cloud that is hanging over us and which will soon be able to say no if we do not come out after six months of consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u127	I will give the Minister the opportunity to reply to this again, but this is a repeat of an earlier debate on interruption. You still have a second term. Later on at the AMvB this is also very detailed, I can already predict that. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u128	I am impressed by your fine political feeling and I share the analysis you are making. We're gonna talk about this a couple more times, I think. To come back to the question: a quality standard must define what the quality is. This must also be done now, taking into account efficiency. It is not for nothing that a tripartite effort is needed to achieve a quality standard. If that had not been the case, if the employers' side and efficiency had been irrelevant, even now, then the profession could only have done so or sat down with the clients, but that is not the case. It is true that health insurers also have a role to play, so efficiency is not irrelevant now either. You're saying they're gonna take that into account. That's kind of the point. They are already supposed to take that into account. That's not what this law is about or about. This law helps in cases where the budgetary impact has obviously not been taken into account and which have been totally out of control. If so, then politics must have the last word. Otherwise, we will no longer be able to weigh the total cost of care in collective spending. Someone has to answer for that and that someone can't be a health insurance company, because it's never here. That someone must be a politician, a member of a cabinet, and you should be able to question someone. That's how it's supposed to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u129	But that is an outright motion of censure towards the people and the organizations that have drafted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u130	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u131	Isn't it true that they've been assigned to draw up these kinds of things, to determine that quality? The Minister clearly considers himself better placed to judge whether they have done well. I think that's a very strange thing to do in this whole bill. He still takes some kind of position, while he has other buttons to turn on when it comes to spending. Apparently you want to be able to determine what those others apparently couldn't, namely: nice that you want to increase the quality, but I know better that this is going to be too expensive. I think that is a really wrong path, especially on the point where others have said: the Minister simply has other options, other options, to adjust the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u132	Be careful with the other options. We have just had a very extensive debate on this. The main options are options that undermine solidarity. That's not what you want. Or it's options that are gonna push out other spending. Expenditure in the field of defence, for example, has been financed by the budget. Expenditure in the field of education has been financed by the budget. So, indeed, be careful to say that quality is the only thing that counts and that efficiency is not something that needs to be taken into account, because if the budgetary impact is so great, then there is no other way to land that budgetary impact. That is either in care or outside care, but it never happens in a way that is painless. This always happens in a way where either the costs have to be coughed up by people or other expenses are replaced. There's no other way. So it's always choosing in scarcity. That does not change the fact that it is already the case that you have to take into account the efficiency of submitting a quality standard. But we have seen that it is also possible that this is not the case. We have seen this in the creation of the Quality Framework Nursing Home Care. As much as the substantive standardisation was desirable and as much as the financial impetus was desirable, it was for a sector that needed a financial boost for a very long time: the curious and undesirable thing about it was that there was no political debate about it at all. Imagine: if the finances on the Empire's side had been bad...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u133	No, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u134	...then we should have taken austerity decisions because this automation had occurred. This is at least remarkable in a political system in which a politician must be able to answer and also take responsibility for collective spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u135	Good. The Minister continues his speech. He's with the varia, the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u136	Mr President, thank you for your guidance. I am going to the varia and then to the amendments. A question has been asked by Mrs Agema. During this interim period, we have done dry-swimming, so you could say, with the quality standards that have been registered at the Healthcare Institute: if you use the terms a little global, what will remain on the sieve that we are talking about? We had to do that, of course, to see how you could use and fill in those terms. The number of standards registered is 65. Of these, 6 would come into the picture and you will indeed see a significant financial plus. Now I have to put that "properly" a bit between quotes, because I do not think that the sieve should be so tight that it stays on the sieve in this way. You mentioned the amounts. You shouldn't say that they're substantial amounts of money. We hadn't finished the AMvB yet. It's still to be fixed. So it's not exactly the sieve that looks like it. But out of 65 there were at least 6. This makes sense that all quality standards always have a financial impact. Because that's not the case. A lot of quality standards actually have no financial impact. So, what's the deal with that? Did they stop them or something? No. Nothing really happened at that stage. The quality framework for emergency care, as I understand it, was actually ready, but then there was discussion between the three parties. Back then, the quality framework was started again, but in order to practice how such a budget impact analysis should now be carried out, the Healthcare Institute submitted the quality framework to the NZa. But that has never come to the final stage of whether or not to register. The Health Institute expects a decision on this quality framework to be taken in mid-February. In addition, there is a generic module Acute psychiatry. It is, I believe, ready and also registered. In addition, there are four that have not yet been registered and which cannot yet be tested, namely psychosis, opiate addiction, personality disorders and problematic alcohol consumption, because the wording in the quality framework is not sufficiently clear to count on. It is therefore not sufficiently clear whether they have a budgetary impact. In short, there's really nothing in between that you say: that has such an enormous financial consequence, that would run counter to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u137	However, I do not think that there is enough concrete evidence of what is going to be a'material'. That 26.8 billion from emergency care...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u138	Million, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u139	Sorry, million. This 26.8 million from the emergency services may not be substantial, but without too much gossip about his fellow minister: Minister Bruins is very much on the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u140	He might think it's substantial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u141	Two things about that. It is always in the context of quality, accessibility and affordability. Those are the political glasses you look at care with. I know Mr Bruins very well and I know that he really weighs that way. By the way, we are both very keen on spending money; I think we are among all colleagues in the cabinet the most of spending money, and more every year. Okay, I'm doing that a little more than he is; that's true. That's true of the extra costs, but in the total portfolio, he spends more than I do. In short, you look at it with the glasses of quality, accessibility and affordability. Those are the political glasses. And it is true that Mrs Agema has the last word. She has that with her colleagues, but Mrs Agema has the last word, because every decision will be submitted: do you follow that degree of substance, that political judgment, too? The weighting criteria, or something should be submitted to the Minister, must therefore be a little tight, in the sense that you need to clarify that. Otherwise, you will have a political judgment on the side of the Healthcare Institute. That's not good. But the political judgment on the Minister's side can never be further established. That is something I will have to explain and support, whether Mr Bruins or Mr Blokhuis. Then we'll submit that to the Chamber, and you'll have to check us out. I think that is what you will do; that is what my grim political feeling says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u142	Of course, we have debates very often with his colleague Mr Bruins, who is also mentioned in the legislative proposal, so he is one of them about people who do not get anything. But do I understand that ministers do not weigh up in advance whether a budget impact analysis is substantial before it is sent to the Chamber? Suppose the effect is €10, do we get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u143	No, look, the Healthcare Institute has to work with the criteria I was just talking about with Mr. Van der Staaij and Mr. Hijink. The Healthcare Institute needs to check and work with those criteria. These criteria have been formulated globally at the level of the law and have been formulated much more precisely at the level of the AMvB. On this basis, it is necessary to assess whether there is indeed a substantial financial impact. The NZa is going to calculate exactly how much, because it has to count on the wordings in the quality framework. The NZa is not going to calculate everything, but is going to calculate only those quality frameworks that are guided by the Healthcare Institute. The NZa then made its sums; they go back to the Zorginstituut. The Healthcare Institute will then submit that sum to the Minister. The Minister must then take his decision, or his intended decision, if the amendment is adopted; I am going to give that judgment to the Chamber. The Court may then decide whether the Minister has properly explained his argument. So you have the last word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u144	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u145	At any amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u146	Yeah, any amount that gives rise to such a wire transfer. So the question of whether it is substantial or not is first determined by the NZa. And if the answer is that it is not substantial and does not meet the criteria as set out in the AMvB, it is not calculated at all. If it is passed on, and the sum is made and it leads to more costs, then it will be submitted to me. And if it is submitted to me, it will be submitted to you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u147	Then Mr Slootweg has a follow-up question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u148	Yes, because a budget impact analysis can also show that there are no costs, for example? Then it goes straight to the register, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u149	Yeah, it's not gonna end up with me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u150	Then there will be no political judgment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u151	That's right. I'd rather not, by the way, because the pile of pieces is big enough every day. How many FTEs are needed at the NZa and the Healthcare Institute? Well, that's really negligible. By the way, the assessment of these three standards does not come from me, but from the Healthcare Institute itself. Let it be three or four or five or six, but that doesn't help you with a day job. I don't even think that's quantifiable. It is not a'significant contribution', I would say, so good luck with it! Then the VVD asks: what does the Minister see as tasks to give his successor with regard to the use of this power? Anyway I give my successor: good luck! In fact, I think the concern is going to be one of the most difficult portfolios for the next 20 years. That has everything to do with that organizational question. I think this power really should be used as an emergency brake. I really follow Mr Sneller's wording. You really only use an emergency brake a few times a year, and only if there is an emergency and not every time. This is not the cost control tool. This is the tool to prevent a massive cost explosion. It is, but it is not an instrument for cost control. You really need to do that another way. How is the disciplinary judge going to test for good care if the quality standard is not accepted? A quality standard is always registered, unless there is no quality standard at all. There is always a quality standard registered. For all those sectors subject to disciplinary law, a quality standard happens to apply, otherwise disciplinary law is not possible. The disciplinary judge can therefore always check against the last registered quality standard. Is the Independence of the Healthcare Institute secured? The notation is: for the answer to this question, I refer to my answers to the questions of the SP of 24 September 2019, but for the sake of fairness I don't know what I answered then either. But I have no reason to doubt the independence of the Healthcare Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u152	I have to say something about that, because the independence of the Healthcare Institute is simply at stake at the moment. The Zorginstituut has interfered with the story about the tapering comics. So this is about drugs that are used by psychiatric patients to reduce the medication. What did the Healthcare Institute do? They've been interfering with a lawsuit that's between health insurance companies and the foundation that's for that medication. They got involved right away. They offered help to the health insurance company to interfere in that lawsuit. Of course, that's completely out of line. We have also asked written questions about this, because of course this cannot happen at all. And before we vote on this law, I would like to hear from the Minister that the Healthcare Institute operates independently, does not lead the insurers and does not interfere. But also from pieces of the Zorginstituut itself, e-mails that are now public, it appears that it does happen. I just want an opinion from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u153	Look, the Healthcare Institute is independent: statutory independent, legally independent. The Healthcare Institute is independent. This is the responsibility of the Minister, but that is an independent institution in the judgments that are due to the Healthcare Institute. Period. Mr Hijink is asking for a very specific matter. I do not, of course, know the details of this at the moment, but Mr Hijink has asked written questions about it which still need to be answered. So I think it's just good to do that in writing. But it certainly doesn't give me any reason to doubt the independence of the Healthcare Institute. Because it's just legally secured. The Healthcare Institute doesn't experience pressure. If the Healthcare Institute were not independent, it would experience pressure from health insurers or whatever. No, that's not the case. The Healthcare Institute is an independent institute. That's a lot of places in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u154	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u155	As the note said, I have indeed asked Parliament questions about this before. In response, the Minister also said that the Healthcare Institute is independent. Only now, according to documents from the Healthcare Institute itself, the following can be seen. I have an e-mail here. It's only three sentences; I'll read them to you. A healthcare officer e-mails: "I am also pleased to hear that a procedure has finally been initiated." That's about the tape comics. "It may be useful to offer our help to VGZ in this regard. We have seen in the past that procedures have been lost by poor defence of health insurers. It would be particularly unfortunate if this were to happen in this dossier." These are officials...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u156	But I don't know the context of this e-mail. I don't know what this case is about. I think we really should do it nicely, because otherwise we will leave all kinds of suggestions hanging over the market. Why don't we just do it nicely? This means that we first formulate and then send out the answers to Mr Hijink's questions. If there are any follow-up questions after that, we're going to answer those questions again. I really can't respond to this right now. That's not carefully this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u157	Mr. Hijink, did you ask any written follow-up questions at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u158	No, they're being asked. Just, I just... Look, we're having a debate here, and there's a law in there, in which the Healthcare Institute...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u159	No, but now you're gonna repeat yourself. I understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u160	No, no, no, I just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u161	You'll have to let me finish. The Minister states that he cannot now reply in this particular case. Then you can ask him if he wants to do so in second term. Or he's going to do it in response to additional written questions on this particular issue. If it is relevant for clarity or for the judgment of this law, you can appoint it in second term, because now the Minister is not going to answer and it will only take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u162	I understand that, Mr President, but the point is that the Minister does reply in the first instance and simply reiterates that the Healthcare Institute operates independently. Now the point is that the documents correctly show that the Healthcare Institute does not always work independently, apparently. I just want the guarantee that it is. I do not think the Minister can give that guarantee, especially given what these documents show.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u163	I stand for the Care Institute and I stand for the independence of the Healthcare Institute. This is without prejudice to the fact that I would like to answer all questions about the activities of the Healthcare Institute, in any case, within the limits of confidentiality, so where could that be? But I'm assuming these questions are just answerable. They are, by the way, covered by Mr Bruins' portfolio, in this case. Those questions will also be answered; that is not a point at all. But I find it really careless to go into that now, because I do not know this case, but also because I do not want to draw conclusions, suggestions or anything about it now. I don't think that's very careful. Then we have the question of the CDA: how is the health insurance company going to act in the next round of purchasing after rejecting a standard? The last standard entered in the quality framework simply counts. Let's take a look at the 2.1 billion: can this law affect the quality standard for nursing care? The answer is 'no', because once registered, it remains registered. That's just the standard that has the force of law to apply. A standard stands, unless a new standard is put in place. If a standard has been rejected, it will not be registered, thus having no force of law. So the last standard counts. Next to the NZa: should the minimum rates not guarantee sufficient quality? I don't think you should immediately confuse minimum rates with quality. At the moment we are working on a new funding system for nursing home care, based on an integral comparison. That is actually the translation of previous debates that we have had with each other here, including on the basis of Mrs Agema's input, who said: you have to be much more normal with regard to the percentage of overhead that you are or are not willing to pay from the government. That is one of the elements taken into account in this integrated comparison. You have to be normal with regard to the staff, with regard to the numbers you are willing to finance. That's part of that integral equation. There are all kinds of elements being compared between institutions, because we know, therefore, that is an important approach route to look at the funding that there are very large differences. And really with the same budget because there isn't a lot of difference in the budget at all, one manages to translate that much more into real customer-related contact hours between employees and clients, while the other gets a lot more stuck in the organization. And so you need to make that much more financial standard. That's what the individual equation is about. I think that's a nicer system than working with minimum rates. The SGP asks whether this way of working does not lead to the failure to encourage parties to discipline themselves when it comes to costs. Actually, I just had that little debate. I think parties do. I also think, quite frankly, that parties are increasingly feeling the urgency that cannot do everything anymore. At this time it is still more and more choosing in scarcity. So that responsibility does feel parties. This is meant to prevent accidents. The normal process is indeed meant to moderate yourself. I don't feel any need to take that responsibility away from people. Frankly, I feel a very different need, namely to make scarcity much more part of the professional debate. You could say to be part of the waiting room, of the treatment room. I say this because putting scarcity only on the board of politics always leads to clumsy choices. Often professionals themselves are much smarter and smarter in making complex decisions in choices what you do or don't do. So I'd like professionals to have their own debate on scarcity. That is a debate that belongs to professionals, and certainly not only to politics. Then I have a few more questions from Mrs Agema about nursing care. You know that once in a while I send a progress report on the program Home in the Nursing House. In doing so, I try to express as precisely as possible the state of implementation as compared to the quality framework. The last time I did that was in the third progress report, which was published in December. In it, I remember, the numbers were recorded until June 2019, so until the second quarter of 2019. Let me get my cheat sheet. This has shown that some 15,000 FTEs have been realized and that we will eventually need some 37,000 FTEs to implement the overall quality framework. So we still have 22,000 FTEs to go. This is about on schedule, but of course it is getting harder to find the people. So you're gonna have to push harder and harder to find those people. We discussed the increase in capacity in detail yesterday. Mrs Agema is quite right that the increase in the number of places you need to realize has an impact. Because you also need to realize those new places to the new standard of the quality framework. Those two games are getting really close. And, of course, they're also conflicting. I can't reproduce it entirely by heart anymore, but in those states I have also indicated which part of the number of new people for the quality and which part for the volume has been adopted. So the number I just mentioned has to do with the quality statement. So many more people were employed in nursing home care, but they were then assumed for capacity. But indeed, that also has a financial impact. That is what Mrs Agema's other question was about. The sum of 2.1 billion has become a kind of totem pole in the political debate on nursing home care, but that is actually the resultant calculation that the NZa made a while ago. This would be added in annual instalments. If I look only at the past year, then indeed about 500 million has been added for the quality. But 950 million has been added for capacity. So if you look at the amount at the start of the cabinet period and the amount at the end of the cabinet period, then there is no 2.1 billion difference, but that difference is much greater. I think it's going through the 3 billion. Of course, I am not quite sure, because we have to adapt the budget to capacity per year. I did so last year by adapting it several times, first on the basis of the NZa's May opinion and then on the basis of an opinion in the autumn. We also asked for a new opinion on this, because we were not entirely confident that that would be enough. The sum of these tranches finally turned into 950 million. This year it will happen again at a number of times. I've put 130 million of the redistributors you normally leave on the shelf until it's necessary, in advance. That's the first 130 million in the plus. But I asked if the NZa would like to come up with a new calculation in the first quarter. We will also have to act on that. I cannot always wait for the normal decision-making moments. Thank you, by the way, for Mr Sneller's concern. I really appreciate that. For example, I do not always have the very last data at the moment when it is actually necessary, in the spring note. The reality of the number of applications does not stop, we have seen, after the Spring Note has been closed. That is the complexity of budgetary estimates of healthcare expenditure in any case, but certainly also of nursing care. Last year there was a growth of 6.3%, whereas demographics would actually justify only 2% and a little. So the growth was three times as high as the demographics and twice as high as the MLT estimate of the CPB. There's no way to estimate that, but we have to pay for it. Otherwise, the nursing homes will have to say, "We can't take in new clients anymore." Then things really go wrong. In short, budgetary estimates in relation to the budgetary cycle is not an ideal business, I can say, but it has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u164	I understand exactly what the Minister has said here in the last ten minutes, but it is really impossible for an outsider to follow at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u165	No, that's the misery of our work sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u166	The reason I asked this question is that the Quality Framework for Nursing Care was established almost three years ago. We know that the targets set have not yet been implemented. Compared to the sums that were made then, we're about 27,000 off. But it just remains incredibly abracadabra, with pluses and lovers, backwards, inside out, upside down. What I would like so much is for the Minister to try to explain in the next progress report in language that much more people than we can understand, how far away we are from the Quality Framework Nursing Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u167	Exactly. You asked the same question last time. In the third progress report, at least we have made an effort to do so as best we can. I thought he was very successful myself, but apparently you can differ on that. If you convert that 2.1 billion as a sum of the quality framework into the number of FTE you need for that, you would reach 37 000. In the quality statement, 15,000 of these have been realized in the plus, regardless of the capacity that many additional people have asked for, but only for the quality. So we would eventually have 22,000 more to go. This is a measurement from 2017 to mid 2019. The implementation of the quality framework should be achieved by 2022. In short, we have some time to go. But it is getting more and more complicated because this competition of increasing quality is increasingly going to coincide with the competition of capacity, which is greatly increasing. In these 2.1 billion is the quality taken into account, but also the sucking effect that the quality could have on the volume. So in the 2.1 billion was 300 million for volume. It has also been added. It's about the number of clients. The CPB said then, I believe in 2016: now the quality for people may be reason to want to stay outside that nursing home, but if you're going to increase the quality, you take that reason not to go to the nursing home, away. This will lead to an aspirant effect. That's the 300 million out of 2.1 billion. Why is the 2.1 billion getting much higher? Because you now declare the new quality standard applicable to the increased quality, which requires a higher amount per client than before. If you convert it per nursing home resident, we spent about €80,000 per nursing home resident at the start of this cabinet period and about €100,000 per nursing home resident at the end of this cabinet period, so that the sector can deliver a better quality. If you ask 'can you show that as clearly as possible', I think I have made it quite clear again. But in the next progress report, we're going to try to do it even more clearly: graphics, everything you've always wanted to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u168	Anything the Minister has said in the last few minutes, I can easily reproduce, because we are debating here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u169	So it's our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u170	It's our job and we debate it so often here that... But really, outside of this room, no one really got a clue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u171	Well, don't underestimate the people who are watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u172	Hence my question to the Minister. We have a Quality Framework Nursing Care and that has, whether the population grows faster or less rapidly, a kind of topicality every year. After all, you're actually talking about an average of two care workers on eight residents in peak times. There are a lot of variations in it, but that's about the size of that amount. However large that population is, there must be a certain topicality. We can conclude that we are still under it, but how far are we still below that quality standard on average? I don't have to call so much at all, because I just want one sentence or one digit for the next progress report: we are so far away from the standard quality nursing home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u173	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u174	It's almost that movie: you had me at "hello." I think I have already said it, and I think it is already in the third progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u175	No, those are all tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u176	The fourth progress report shows the weather. I am going to show it as clearly as possible, graphically and with everything in it, but really everything that Mrs Agema had always wanted to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u177	Then we get that whole story: it's 37,000 full-time jobs. Is it full time? Is it part-time? Are they 37,000 and have they added up to 15,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u178	Fte is always full-time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u179	There are now 22,000 fewer, but the population has increased. So it's supposed to be 30,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u180	Okay. You are going to have this discussion again at the next progress report. The Minister has promised...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u181	I don't want tables. I want one sentence or one digit. How far are we from achieving and implementing the Quality Framework Nursing Care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u182	You're welcome. Coming right up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u183	I expected a lot when I told my colleague that I could take over this debate, but I didn't see Jerry Maguire and sucking effect coming. I'd like to go back to what the Minister said about the estimates. I understand that very well, but it is policy implementation. It's okay if you just book a setback, as it were. Here it is said: within four weeks, seek budgetary cover for registering or not registering such a quality standard. I wonder if that four-week period is enough. You know how big the Health budget is, but is this four weeks a realistic period to seek budgetary cover if that is a consideration of whether or not to register such a quality standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u184	That is, of course, very short. A few things about that. It depends a little on the size of the amount. Of course, you often make financial decisions, with which you, as a minister responsible for the whole budget, sometimes also take a risk. You take a risk if you think you have some underexhaustment in a number of sectors. If I make this decision, I will have something overexhaustible on the other framework, but it is striking out against each other. In a way, you take that disappointment, because you're actually creating a setback by enrolling in a quality framework. You do that because you think it's acceptable for whatever reason. You take that setback and then you have a collective discussion with the Minister of Finance in the normal budget cycle. The final picture of a Spring note or annual accounts is then a decision of the Council of Ministers as a whole. But you're taking that risk as a minister yourself. If you have a budget that is less based on estimates and expenditure ceilings than the VWS budget. Then of course you are much tighter in your spending and you can less easily discount this type of expenditure in your current spending. At VWS, after all, P times Q is financed in a totally incomprehensible term, which you of course understand. In the healthcare budget, that is a bit easier to do and, frankly, we do it all the time. You make an assumption based on your own budgetary assessment. Can I fit this in? If the assumption is that you can't fit it in, but you also want to do it, then there will of course be a discussion with the Minister of Finance. Finance will not allow you to take measures with a major budgetary impact for which you do not have coverage. And you can't always arrange that in four weeks. Well, that's gonna have to come out in May, 'cause otherwise you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u185	Finally, Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u186	By definition, these amounts are relatively large.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u188	And what the Minister always says to the Finance Committee is that those windfalls in care are not structural windfalls, they are all incidental windfalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u189	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u190	While these quality standards, of course, require structural coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u191	Yeah, that's right. It is also right for Mr Hoekstra to say so. If you look at the healthcare budget, you have a number of budgetary frameworks, actually by sector, and you have a number of sectors with which we have reached broad agreement. This is not always the case with the expenditure ceiling, which is why the remaining budgetary margin is occasionally released from the accounts. But then the following year it is simply at the disposal of the sector again. That was the agreement in the main agreement. In return, the original estimate in the million million has been moderated. That is the budgetary agreement we made on the front. That is why the Finance Member says: these are occasional windfalls, they can never be booked in a structural way, otherwise we will undermine our basic agreements, and if we do so, we will lose a number of billions in any case. In short, that is right and this is by definition about large expenditure, otherwise the Minister would not have to complain about it either. That is why I say to you: sometimes you will be able to fit it in and sometimes you will not be able to fit it in. But I also think that, if there were really a significant financial impact at stake, I would indeed send the proposed decision to your Chamber and say that we should not want to do so, because we cannot fit that in. Or: I would like to do this, but that has the consequence that I have to do either with the package or with my own contribution, because that is the measure you have to take to cover the extra expenditure you have to do. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u192	Clear. I think it would be a good thing if you were now due to assess the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u193	You do not want to hear me elaborate any further on the matter of the VWS budget, do I understand? Oh, but there's another debate coming!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u194	I do not think it is the first time that I have seen the debate on the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u195	There is yet another wonderful debate on the sustainability of finances, even with Mr Hoekstra. Then you can put our statements on this together seamlessly. I wish it were that far! Let's see. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Hijink. Is it true I'm starting with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u196	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u197	That amendment asks me to evaluate within three years. If I were to do that, I would have to start that evaluation after two years. That is very short to evaluate the effectiveness of a law. I would therefore like to ask you whether you understand yourself with the authors of the amendment to item No. 11 of Mr Slootweg and Mr Laan-Geselschap. Perhaps you can come to a comparison, because I think you should spend three years working on a particular legal situation in order to really assess its effectiveness and effectiveness. So the amendment in part No. 9 I would advise against, but actually with the opinion of consulting the authors of the CDA and the VVD groups, to see if there could be a joint amendment, with the content of which I hope will be the amendment on item No. 11. Collaboration is fine, but she has to go in the right direction. So the amendment in part No. I do not think that is the right way to go about it. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 10 states: the Minister shall decide on the authorisation, not before he has sent the proposed quality standard and the budgetary impact analysis of the Healthcare Authority to the two Chambers of the States General and at least four weeks have elapsed, and not later than eight weeks after the transmission. The most important hesitation I have here is this. Mr Hijink's speech is quite clear: as a political figure, you should not sit in the chair of the professional. So don't sit down and amend that quality standard. If, however, you set up the veil in this way, I understand the veil very well; I am also in favour of sending the quality standard to the Chamber myself, then we will of course have a debate on the quality standard rather than a debate on the Minister's decision or planned decision. So I would say: let us leave it aside from the deadlines, because there is also a lot to be said about this, so that in the pending procedure I pass on to the Chamber the Minister's proposed decision on the budgetary impact analysis and that the Chamber considers the Minister's argument that it should or should not agree to register that quality standard. Because you have to judge me. The assessment of the quality standard must be carried out by the Healthcare Institute. We already had an independent institution for that. You must judge me, the decision I intend to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u198	I am not waiting for this whole process at all, let me put it first. But if you do, of course, it is a little dubious that the Minister is going to thoroughly analyse the impact on the budget and what the content of such a quality standard is, but that we would not get that insight as a Chamber when the choice has to be made. At least, if I understand him correctly. If it's misunderstood, I'd like to hear it. That seems to me to be a bit of a strange situation. I believe that we should then be able to assess: this is the standard proposed, this is what the Health Institute thinks, and this is what the Minister thinks. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u199	I understand that, but that's an attachment to the letter I'm sending you. The letter you receive from me says: this is my intended decision and this is why. You're judging me. You're not judging if these guys did the quality standard right. That's all up to the Healthcare Institute to assess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u200	The Chamber gets the information, that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u201	Yes, of course. You're right. If I didn't send it, you'd ask for it, and then it's your right to get that information. No, absolutely. I would therefore advise against this amendment in this form. I believe that the CDA Group and the D66 Group have tabled a somewhat similar amendment on a front. I will come to that in a moment, and I will tell you why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is the amendment that requires the Healthcare Authority to check the quality standard for access to care. I'm going to dissuade that, but in the most enthusiastic way. That might sound a little strange. I am referring to the amendment on item No. 14 bee. That's different in itself, but there's the same thought behind it. The amendment in part No. 13 asks the Healthcare Authority to check the quality standard for accessibility and the amendment in part No. 14 actually makes demands on the proposers of the quality standard at the Healthcare Institute, namely to take account of accessibility. I think that is a very interesting idea. Then I will continue with the debate that you have often had with Mr Bruins on whether it would not make sense to have a standard of quality. We have now talked very much about the financial side of the matter to consider what its significance is for the way in which you can organise care. I would like to call that organizational, but you might as well say availability, accessibility or accessibility. What matters is that if you set the bar very high, you will no longer be able to meet it in a number of regions in the Netherlands. Then you actually get a choice between or even higher quality, but you have to pay the price for it to make that care less accessible, or leave the quality for what it is because it has to be accessible throughout the Netherlands, in all regions. In fact, I believe that, to an increasing extent, this trade-off or this trade-off is not allowed to be used in English terms, especially as care is increasingly used in the labour market and the labour market is becoming increasingly tighter. Especially in the north, east and south of the country you can see that that is actually the order of the day. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't or shouldn't have to make that decision. You cannot pre-standard that accessibility or accessibility is above quality. You can't say that again. Take the Princess Máxima Center. That's a top-of-the-bill hospital, maybe the best in the whole world when it comes to pediatric oncology. I think that all parents who have their children treated there are more than willing to drive that huge end, for example from South Limburg, because they know that is the very best that the Netherlands can offer. If you'd do it differently, if you let the scales go through very much to make it available around the corner, you know one thing for sure: you're never gonna deliver that quality. But in that way, you can't look at the acute care or the acute obstetrics again. So I understand the example you mention very well, because acute obstetrics is acute and so you don't always have time to drive to Utrecht. So you have to take care of that in that context. On the basis of the discussion in the Chamber, Mr Bruins said to you: please give me the opportunity to discuss this with the Healthcare Institute. I understand that it should play a role in the assessment of quality frameworks, that it should play a role in the instruction of those who make quality frameworks and that it should play a role in their weighting. But let me talk about that with the Zorginstituut and with field parties before I get back to that. I think that was a commitment to Mr Van den Berg, but I was not in that discussion, so perhaps I am wrong. But I think that was the outcome of that political debate with Mr Bruins and your Chamber. And that is why I am now, at this stage, denouncing these amendments. There are several ways in which you can shape that key on accessibility or that key on accessibility. I understand the content of the amendments very well, but for that procedural reason I must discourage them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u202	Could you just repeat the number of the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u203	We are dealing with the amendments to item No. 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u204	The amendment in part No. 13 and the amendment to item No. 14 advises you both, but the amendment to item No. 12 has given you Judgment Chamber. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u205	Really? I'll look it up real quick. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u206	Okay, we'll get back to that. Mr Hijink has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u207	It's kind of bothering me a little bit. We are in a healthcare system in which hospitals also have to compete with each other. Nor will it be the first time that a standard or standard has been drawn up involving, for example, specialists from major or academic hospitals. Such a quality standard can be disastrous for the smaller hospitals that cannot meet that standard. And as a result, huge conditions can arise in regional hospitals to maintain departments. I am not asking for everything to be regulated in the standard, but I am simply asking that the proposers of such a standard say something about that. That's all I'm asking. Nor am I asking that the NZa should give a full analysis and determine what consequences it will have, but that the NZa should look at this. What could be the consequence? That's all. I think that's a very small addition. But that supplement is very important, also for the Minister, if he should have to give such a judgment. So I would ask the Minister to reconsider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u208	I'm gonna take one more shot anyway, because I understand this, too. I understand this, too. Why is it tripartite? That's also because you want the highest possible quality from the clients' perspective, and on the other hand you want that if you live in North Drenthe, you can also take care of it. That care should also be available if you live in North Drenthe. You don't have to cross half the country for that. That's the patient perspective. But how one weighed that client perspective in that process, and what was added to that quality standard on behalf of the client organisations or patients' organisations, and how that consideration ultimately worked out, of course, you don't know in advance. In the perspective of the professional it actually goes exactly the same way. Some of the doctors, especially the doctors in academic care in the Randstad, where staff shortages may be a little less than in the east of the country, will say a bit easier: well, but I do think that quality can be improved. And their colleagues in the east of the country will say: yes, but how? But you don't know exactly what weighting was made there. So I think what Mr Hijink is asking is just right; it is a fair question. But I know that Mr Bruins has put questions about this at the Healthcare Institute. How could we best shape this in the assessment of these quality standards? In what way should we put that as a question to the sector? In what way should the Healthcare Institute assess this, after that quality standard has been agreed? A number of procedural requirements are, of course, reviewed before a quality standard is registered. But Mr Hijink now wants accessibility or accessibility to be an important part of it. I know that more groups have made a point of this. I also know that Mr Bruins said to those groups and to the Chamber as a whole: I understand your point, but give me the opportunity to decide how to shape it. And these two amendments actually anticipate that discussion. It is not possible to keep an amendment, but if it were possible, I would have advised you to keep it. I think this is a valid discussion, but we would have stuck to the outcome of that discussion before it was concluded in an opinion from the Healthcare Institute to Mr Bruins. I don't like that in the order of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u209	I do have a problem with that. This is, in fact, the second time in this debate where an important point is not covered by this law and we have to trust that it will ever work out. And I don't really have that confidence. I didn't have that on the other subject before, but I think it is so important that I think: how should we judge this law? This law lays down certain criteria. This law makes proposals. It says: this is what proposed quality standards have to comply with. There are additional requirements for this. Then this is a very logical time to include this as an additional requirement. If you do not, then we will have to wait and see what happens after we have voted on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u210	Another brighter side of the matter: it isn't. What we add to the way in which we deal with quality standards is that there is a test when that quality standard is already complete and meets all kinds of procedural requirements and so on. If he has a substantial financial impact, he can be presented to the Minister. The minister can say: well, don't, given the financial impact. That's what this law does. What these amendments are doing is to use this bill to settle a legitimate, normal or logical point in the regular assessment of quality standards. I am not saying that I am against this, but let us not pretend that this is the key issue of this bill. This bill is actually about another moment in that process. This is about the regular way in which quality standards are created and tested. So yes, that can actually be added to any subsequent bill. In fact, it's a subject that Bruins said: I'm going to discuss it with the Healthcare Institute. The Health Institute has said: we are going to think about that and we will come back to that. All I ask you to do is to let that happen before we put the conclusion of that discussion into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u211	I'm a little worried about that. In concrete terms, the quality standard for emergency doctors, for example, has risen. We have seen that emergency services have actually been closed as a result. Mr. Hijink says, "Take it easy, because you raise the quality standard, the accessibility goes down and with that the quality actually goes down." If the hospital closes near you, you're really gonna have to move on. That just has consequences for quality. Then I think it is quite right that he should table this amendment here. Then I just don't understand why there's been another wait and I don't know what to do. We are standing here now, and we can now arrange that in future no such rude things will happen that will jeopardise the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u212	I have already indicated that I think the discussion is right. This is also in line with a discussion that has previously been held in the Chamber on the basis of the quality standard you are referring to. That conversation was then and there was also talk about the exchange between quality on the one hand and accessibility on the other. It is not the case that the discussion does not take place when it comes to establishing a quality standard, but apparently it is in such a way that this is the outcome, so you can still think "why did people actually make that assessment and have they really thought well enough?" A bit flatly translated: did that Amsterdam doctor think carefully, when he was doing fanatical things on that committee, about what significance that had for Drenthe? That's the discussion you're talking about. I get that, that's a fair discussion, that's not my point. It is true that this law actually regulates something else. However, this law now happens to be ahead of us and you can now, technically speaking, regulate it by amendment. Here's what I'm asking. Bruins has already said: I understand the discussion. Bruins has already said: let me have that discussion with the Healthcare Institute for a moment. I cannot ask you to keep your amendment, otherwise I would have asked you to do so. Of course, this cannot be done in the case of amendments. I would ask you to give us an opportunity to wait for the outcome of that discussion before you put that outcome into this law in advance. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 12, which I mistakenly skipped. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Sneller and Mr Bergkamp. It proposes to hang the AMvB for this. I think I already told you, so that is not so exciting anymore, that I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 15, by Mr Slootweg and Mr Sneller. That is the background to a planned decision. As I have just said to Mr Hijink, test the Minister's planned decision and judge it. That is what this amendment is about. You could make the suggestion of combining those two things. In this form, I would like to leave the House's opinion on the veil. Then there is the amendment to item No. 16. Actually, I'm gonna have to figure that out a little bit. It's just been handed to me and I need to take a closer look at that. May I deal with this amendment in the second term, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u213	Yes, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u214	I have one more point, namely the issue of optional or mandatory provision. Mr Van der Staaij asked: can we make a mandatory provision of this, and if so, can we do so by means of a letter of amendment, so that there is no need for an amendment? The answer is that there will be a letter of amendment. I thought I'd give that to you anyway. The amendment in part No. 16, I'm gonna study something a little better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u215	I will give you a moment to do so during a very short suspension. Then the Minister responds and then we start with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u216	We were still working on the Minister's first term, which gives his final opinion on the amendment to item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u217	Mr President, I apologize for not being able to do this right away. I'm a man, as it turns out. I can only do one thing at a time. It is therefore not possible to combine talking and reading. It is actually a very clear amendment. It calls for the NZA's budget impact analysis not to be put on the Minister's notice, but to submit it to the Minister with an opinion from the Health Institute, so that the Minister can also base his opinion on the advice of the Health Institute. That is similar to the way we deal with the package. I think that's just fine. I shall therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u218	Thank you. This means that we are on the side of the Minister at the end of the first term. We'll continue with the second term. Members' speaking time shall not exceed one third of their speaking time during the first period. But I think Mrs Agema has one more question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u219	I don't have a second term. I have not changed my mind and I do not have any motions, so I shall leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u220	Thank you. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Hijink of the Socialist Party for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That also applies to me, but I would like to explain that. I think the way the Minister refers to the alternatives to this bill is too short-sighted. He says: if you do not put the emergency brake on these quality standards, you can only do three other things: reduce the package, or introduce more own contributions, or cut other government tasks, such as defence or education. I think that, in the light of what we are seeing in our healthcare system, is a very short turn of events. When I see how much profit is still being made, when I see how many administrative burdens carers still have, when I see how much bureaucracy there is left, when I see how many incentives there are left in this system that are more caring than actually necessary, I think the Minister still has a lot of options to save, if he wants to. The Minister also says that he is not going to interfere in the discussion about what good care is, but he actually does. He's gonna hang over those standards and watch them develop. When healthcare providers, health insurers and client organisations discuss a standard, they will always know in that process that the minister will ultimately judge it. In the back of the head will always play: when we fly off the bend and when we do something that the minister does not like, he says no very loudly. So he certainly is meddling in the discussion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the amendments I have tabled. I think it is a terrible shame for the Minister to say no to that now. I really think that we have a chance here to ensure that quality...... we all want more quality... is not at the expense of the availability of care, especially in the smaller, regional hospitals. It is true that Mrs Agema has just rightly said that if you set a very high standard, perhaps too high a standard, which can only be achieved in academic hospitals or in the top clinical hospitals, this has very high risks for other hospitals. That has already happened in the past. This can simply mean that an emergency aid must be closed and that intensive care can no longer exist there. This can just mean that acute obstetrics must be removed, for example if there are too few births in a hospital. That's not a fictional example. This has already happened and will happen more often if we do not consider the availability of care and the accessibility of care. I hope that the Chamber will be wiser than this Minister and will support those amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u222	Thank you, too. Mr Slootweg has the floor on behalf of the CDA. You don't have to run.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and my fellow Members for the way in which this debate has been conducted. On the one hand, it is actually a superpolitical question, how do you deal with resources? Oh, and on the other hand, it's a huge piece of technique. This technique is also in the specification of the emergency brake. I must say that I welcome the outcome of the debate and its openness because the emergency brake is even more stringent: when do we agree? I'm happy about that. At least I welcome the assessments of the amendments. It depends, of course, on the votes. But I think we've made the emergency brake even more precise. On the other hand, I am pleased to say that we still have to be able to discuss this issue, and that the involvement of the Chamber, including political, budgetary law, has been strengthened. In both cases, I think that is a good outcome to this debate. In that sense, I think that we have taken a few steps forward in this consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u224	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u225	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The SGP Group is convinced of the desirability of this bill to come up with that emergency brake. We've done a lot of talking about how. I think we have had a good debate on this. This has led, when I see the amendments and their appreciation, to a veil of the AMvB that is to come and to a veil of the planned decision-making review. I would also like to mention the point I raised myself, and thank you for the letter of amendment, namely that there must always be an AMvB in order to implement the emergency brake in this way. Finally, there is the amendment I tabled together with Mr Slootweg. I welcome the positive attitude taken by the Minister. I would like to conclude by complimenting the Minister on not getting him every day. It can sum up complicated matter very rarely compactly. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 16, which I submitted with Mr Slootweg, several Members said that they did not know what was written after they had read it five times. But the Minister could say with two sentences what this debate was about. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u226	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Laan-Selschap has the floor. Mr Sneller is abandoning his second term. So Mrs Laan-Geselschap is really the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister, but above all the people behind the scenes who have made it possible for the Minister to respond in this way. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the various amendments which have made the proposal more stringent, although some of them were somewhat difficult to understand, and I say quite frankly. I think it is important that we adopt this bill as a Chamber, because it is ultimately important that we all in this country keep the beautiful care system that we have in the future care-proof. The Minister has spoken wisely about this. We are grateful for that, too. We leave it at that and we will vote. I hope that I can explain in the group what all the wise words of my fellow Members were in the various amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u228	Thank you, too. No motions have been tabled, so I think the Minister can respond equally to the second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u229	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have had a rather extensive debate on something that may seem at first glance a rather small technical change, but what is actually a very political debate, about choices you are making. I do not immediately agree with the outline of the possibilities as Mr Hijink recapitulates on the sustainability of the increase in healthcare costs, but I think we are going to have that debate so often that it might be good to leave it at that. This is not a bill that is going to help us very much in controlling the rise in healthcare costs. However, it is a legislative proposal to prevent a shock-by-shock explosion of healthcare costs from coming up. It is also an emergency brake, but we will have to do a lot of other things to ensure the sustainability but also the accessibility and quality of our care, given the conditions of the huge ageing population that is coming towards us. Mr Hijink is a little disappointed by my assessment of his amendments. I understand that, but I have rarely so lovingly advised against amendments. I did not recommend the evaluation clause, but I am actually saying yes to an evaluation clause, just one more year. I did not recommend the amendment on accessibility, but if you have heard me correctly, I did say that this discussion is justified, just not at the moment. I did not recommend the amendment on the veil in this form, but I embraced it in that other form. More loving than this, I cannot actually advise against amendments, so do not let that be a reason for Mr Hijink to vote against this bill. Finally, I come to Mr Van der Staaij. He complimented me on not being around this house very often. I don't blame you personally, but that's true. Your compliment on compactness has never, ever really, been received in any debate. I'm going to download that moment and turn it off every morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-10.u230	Thank you to the Minister, to the support, to the members and to the members of the Chamber. We will be voting on the law and the amendments tabled next Tuesday 21 January.
