ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-6.u1	The issue is now the issue of the legislative proposal 35292, Amendment of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive Implementation Act and the Heat Act in relation to the implementation of Directive 2002/2002/EU on energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Climate madness has no limits and climate fever is contaminated at all political levels. And the higher the political governance, the more opaque it becomes. The present bill comes from a European top hat and you have to be careful. Chances are you're dealing with a legal tangle of rules and that's the case again. I quote from the explanatory statement: "This legislative proposal implements the Directive 2002/2002/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 amending Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency (PbEU L328), hereinafter referred to as the amending Directive. The amending Directive amends Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, amending Directives 2009/125/EC and 2010/30/EU and repealing Directives 2004/8/EC and 2006/32/EC, hereinafter referred to as "the Directive'. End of quote. Are you all still here? Okay, then for reflection, a quote from the Roman Emperor Tacitus. I quote: "The more corrupt the state, the more laws." End of quote. I'm gonna switch to my own jargon now. Mr. Chairman. These facts should contribute to 32.5% European energy savings in 2030 compared to 2005. End users in Member States are required to achieve an annual energy efficiency improvement of 0.8% from 2021 to 2030. This is based on an average final consumption in the years 2016 to 2018. The question to the Minister is: is this regardless of population growth? If so, there is another reason to close the borders for migration. By plugging the link between climate and energy into the bourgeois brain, flanked by a debt complex, a earning model for the elitist network and an undressing model for the citizens emerged. With this link in hand, the government is aiming at 49% greenhouse gas emission reduction, with the result that primary energy consumption should return to 1.950 petajoule by 2030. Totally unrealistic, especially for the economy and even if you're green-religious and can count a little. Based on a consumption in 2018 of 3,100 petajoule, less the 925 petajoule to be cut, you are far from achieving the target of 1,950 petajoule. Not that the PVV calls for additional measures. No, we need to do so from here, just like the European Union in its present form. There's nothing wrong with saving energy, because what you don't need doesn't have to be generated. Everyone understands that, for example, it makes sense to isolate your home: a simple, clear measure that directly leads to savings. But a simple measure such as isolation and the use of an efficient h-boiler that provides direct heat to the home is really not enough. Brussels insists on awareness of its own energy use, which could lead to less consumption, and now lays down additional requirements for energy meters for heating, cooling or hot water for domestic use. We need to measure more, and we need to measure more. This cabinet should also be applied in the field of COOVID-19, but yes, of course, you remain selective. Under the motto "repeating is repeating," the end user will be confronted with his or her energy use and associated greenhouse emissions on a monthly basis from 2022, as citizens need to get rid of the gas and that high efficiency engine has to go out the window, so that the way is cleared for, for example, energy-consuming heat exchangers or heat grids. And if you're completely unlucky, there's a third batch between you and a heat/cold supplier. That could be an association of owners. Then you have some input. Or a big landlord who delivers heat/cold. Large landlords can often negotiate a nice price. To what extent are these landlords tempted to charge high delivery costs or do the tenants take a bit of this? Because like every citizen, the tenant also pays blue for energy tax and ODE, with VAT over it, but in this case there is a good chance that the tenant will also pay extra for high delivery costs. It is not clear how much transit costs are calculated by the landlords to the tenants. The government's willingness to do so is far from satisfactory. Tenant are outlawed, as they do not enjoy protection from the ACM in this matter. This is due to a deliberate gap in the Heat Act. However, the Minister may indicate that the Energy Efficiency Directive stipulates that billing and consumer information must be reliable and accurate and based on current current prices and actual use or on the measurement data of heat cost distributors, but prices cannot be verified. The tenant does not know how much the landlord buys the heat/cold. And it will be a bite for the Minister, because he himself states in the reply I quote: "I see no reason to impose further requirements on the cost specification of the invoice, including delivery costs." This is a regent's answer. Apparently, the minister has no trouble sneaking out the tenant for extra income for the landlord. A gift for the corporations, which are faced with a huge increase in the burden, which is also caused by the government. Again, the question to the Minister: why should the landlord not open up? While it is required that the invoice should accurately indicate the energy consumption with the corresponding greenhouse gas emissions. Well, that's what I'm talking about. But, yes, that serves the purpose: to re-educate the citizen by Father State. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. At all levels, the green indoctrination is imposed: the United Nations, the European Union, the government and local authorities. Rutte and his comrades are even more Roman than the Pope. While Brussels goes for 49% emission reduction, Rutte goes for 55%. The European Commission aims at a primary energy consumption of 2,500 petajoules, Rutte goes for 1,950 petajoules. Perhaps all to please the climate pope Timmermans, who dreams of a climate-neutral socialist state of salvation. You just have to be able to do it all. Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that the PVV Group is voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the debate until the next legislative proposal has been considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-6.u5	I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes, until 2:30 p.m.
