ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u1	It is now the subject of the continuation of the examination of legislative proposal 35122, which is merely the Penalty and Protection Act. I repeat to Members that in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself. Then you can put the document on the table on your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u2	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse of the VVD Group in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my group would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply and explanation today and for the pleasant debate. My group also thanks the Minister for the commitment to keep the First Chamber informed of his discussions with the organisations in the criminal justice chain on the application of the GVM. My group believes that this is important, especially in relation to the maximation of VI at two years. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the D&R plan, my group has asked whether account is taken of the level of entry against the desired final level in relation to the differences in the capacity of detainees. My group has understood the Minister's answer in such a way that he agrees to do so. The Minister talked about the helping hand and about entry differences, which will be taken into account. My group believes it is important to be able to monitor how the interests of victims and survivors in the implementation are weighed when granting or not granting vi. The VVD Group has requested that this be included in the evaluation, and the Minister has agreed to do so, for which I would also like to thank you very much. The VVD welcomes the fact that the exchange of data between prison directors will take place in order to coordinate the various prisons. Thank you for that, too. Then I come to my final point: the right of transition. Much has already been said about this, yesterday but also today. My group and my superiors in the Chamber request that the Minister, in anticipation of the full review of this law, report within two years of the entry into force of the law on the effects of criminal proceedings on the appeal of this group and, if there are adverse consequences of appeal, consider whether additional measures are necessary to prevent or eliminate those adverse effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. Then I give the floor to Mr Janssen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers and for the commitments on the details of the implementation of the two motions: there will be clear factual information and a commitment has been made on work in each p.i. Mr. Chairman. The Minister is a sentimental man. This debate has made that clear. I come to that because the Minister's answers strongly reminded me of a poster by Loesje that I recently encountered, with the text: an opinion without arguments is a feeling. The Minister does not expect judges to take into account the shortened conditional release. The minister doesn't expect prisoners to show calculative behavior. The Minister does not expect it to become more unsafe because inmates are not prepared or insufficiently prepared for their return. But other people have already said that the Minister cannot support all these expectations. Again, an opinion without arguments is a feeling. The chain partners and the employees of the p.i.They have a different opinion and more than that: they stand day in, day out with their boots in the mud and can prove the feeling with practical experience. Mr. Chairman. I said something about it in the first period: I cannot escape the impression that the main reason for this bill is that the toughness of the coalition agreement prevails. Unlike Mrs Bikker, I still see the spirit of the former Ministry of Security and Justice in this bill: punishment is good and even more punishment is better. "Longer detention is not a goal, but a desired effect," we have heard the minister say more or less inflamed. Punishment then becomes more important than protection, and we may differ on that. In the Lower House, the Minister repeatedly said that he would not be given an explanation of the current system of conditional release with conditions. My question to the Minister is whether he has thought about how he will explain it if this new system of maximum conditional release will lead to lower penalties and higher recidivism. Probably the Minister's answer is that he doesn't expect this to happen. But I told you, that's a feeling and no more than that. I will only call it "welcome" because the two years let go of the current punishments and the current measure of punishment, when we hear the signals from the field, will not become reality. That is why I believe, following Mr Recourt, that it is important that the Minister should take full responsibility for this bill and also undertake to stand in front of the judges and parole when his feeling turns out to be wrong and the punishments are lower and the repetition increases. I would therefore like to hear a commitment from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. For my group, the concerns about the implementation of the detention of prisoners from day one have not been removed. The staff shortages at the p.i.There are too many of them, as well as the delays in training. In addition, the grids are too tight. In his first reply, the Minister said that this was provided for. But budget on paper isn't people in the workplace yet. In addition, municipalities are in financial need, partly because of the consequences of decentralisation in the social domain. This need is further deepened by the current corona crisis. In these circumstances, we ask municipalities to invest now in the implementation of this law. My expectation and my feeling is that that's not gonna work. By the way, we can see that some municipalities have not already done so and still do not do so. There is already a deletion in budgets in municipalities. Painful cuts are being made. Child care, for example, has been struggling with insufficient resources for a long time. In the distribution of these scarce resources, this bill is not going to be at the top of the priority list, administrative agreement or not. I therefore call for realism on this point. I am not concerned about whether a legislative proposal is adopted or not. That is the reality of the Hague. I am concerned about the consequences for the safety and protection of people. Therefore, my question to the Minister is whether he shares the view of the SP Group that everything must be in order before implementation can begin on 1 May. Can the Minister promise that it will not be started if human affairs are not in order? Then I mean that it actually has to be in order in the workplace, not just on paper. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats continues to have serious doubts about the implementation of this bill in particular. Not only do the partners say that this is not going to work in such a way in terms of content; it is not going to work in terms of circumstances. A lot of partners don't have money. There aren't any people yet. And the crucial personnel occupation at the p.i.Quality and quantity are not yet in order. Our great concern is therefore that this action from the coalition agreement will prove to be a paper solution that will make our society more unsafe in practice. Now, that's really something you're not getting explained. All this means that my group will still have to make a weighting of the pluses and minuses in order to reach our own well-balanced judgment in the Upper Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. The D66 Group has examined this bill from the point of view of the prisoner and from the point of view of the victim of a crime for which the prisoner has been put in jail. From this point of view, we have asked a number of questions to the Minister in the first term. I have been able to register a number of fine commitments. For example, attention will be paid to specific groups of prisoners who are lagging behind because of all kinds of causes. That's gonna make the law work for them. The Minister will work on this in consultation with all chain partners. The Minister is going to contact the Justice Council to see what will be the effect of the law. This is reported annually. We're going to see that report, too. As regards the government as an employer, the Minister said that there are internships and that work is going to be done to increase their numbers, including for MBOs. There is also work on volunteering, which is stated in the coalition agreement. I have missed out on whether a specific diversity and inclusiveness policy is being pursued by the government as an employer, to set an example. I'd like to get some more details on that. We also welcome the commitment that in the files available to those who have been convicted, care is being taken with regard to the data of victims. We have heard the Minister extensively about staff, training and vacancies. We need to look at how this is going to develop in practice, because that is, of course, what the drafting of the legislative proposal is about. If this is not properly regulated in practice, prisoners and victims will not benefit. Finally, I would like to come back to rights of access. I said in the first term that this is a matter of great concern for my group. In my back pocket, I had a motion to transform the core of Article 4 (3) of the bill into a reference moment, the criminal offence committed. But the bill now states the judge's ruling. The Minister responded to that. He said: no, that would not be good, because in cold cases, for example, we would have a new case in perhaps fifteen or twenty years, based on an old criminal offence, and then you could have two systems mixed up for years. I am sensitive to that argument, but what I am not sensitive to is that the right of transition should not be detrimental to those who, for example, have already been convicted, but who are or will be the subject of an appeal. The Minister replied that he would sit down with the Council of Justice, the incumbent magistrate, at the table to discuss this issue properly and also report back to the First and Second Chambers. I still have a question about that, because what are the possibilities for the prosecution in a specific case if one thinks: a convicted person is initially going to suffer from the new transitional right? What can the district attorney do? I would like to have some clarification from the Minister on this. As far as we are concerned, the new transitional law must not have any adverse consequences for those who have already been given a court ruling. That is really a point that the Minister should clarify in the second term. After that, I will discuss with my group how we weigh this bill, but I can say that I have also heard many positive elements in the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr Dittrich. Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u9	First of all, have I understood correctly that the commitment you have received to enter into discussions with the Council of Ministers for Justice sees the penalties that are or are not being adapted to this legislative proposal? And then I have the question to you: how do you see it in the context of the separation of powers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u10	The answer to the last question is quite simple. Of course, it is still up to the Public Prosecutor to impose a certain requirement. Of course, the Minister is not going to prescribe how that should be done. It is up to the judge to decide in a specific case. The judge is, of course, completely independent, and should remain, above all, independent. But it would be no harm at all to highlight the following when dealing with the legislative proposal, because it is still a bit of an active legal history. So there is no harm in telling the Minister once again that it is not the legislator's intention that some people should go backwards when a new transitional right is introduced for rulings that have already been made in their case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u11	I really wonder whether it is not right for Parliament to give an answer to the questions that the judge has when looking at the separation of powers and the purity in them. We should not send the Minister to discuss this with the Council of Justice, which, of course, is not about content, but is actually just an administrative body.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u12	I haven't heard a question in this. Does Mrs Veldhoen now suggest that the Minister should not discuss the whole issue of the right of transition with those in the chain who deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mrs. Veldhoen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u14	To clarify, I was not talking so much about the transitional right, but about the fact that you say: the Minister must talk about the penalties that may or may not be adapted to this bill. I have the question: does it fit in with our system of separation of powers that the Minister is going to discuss such a substantive issue with the Council of Ministers for Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u15	Then we talked a little bit past each other, because I thought you were talking about the transitional right. That was precisely my point in the debate with the Minister. But, of course, the Minister should not say in consultation with the incumbent magistrate how the government feels that punishment should be applied. No, the judiciary is completely independent and should remain independent. Finally, I agree with the concerns expressed by Mr Recourt among others. Assuming that there would be lower penalties, you never know, then I would think it would be wrong to react: oh, this is an unintentional side effect of the treatment of this law and that is why we are going to increase penalties, for example for certain types of offences. I do not think that would be the right course of action, so I would like to have another reflection of the Minister in his second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u16	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Finally, Mr Otten, speaking on behalf of the Otten Group, has the floor during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. You are very close to the time, I have noticed, so I will be well within the speaking time. We are looking back at an interesting debate. A lot of cases have been dealt with extensively. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in principle in favour of abolishing the automatic reduction of penalties, which in fact is the vi. We also support the principle of applying less vi than under the current regime. However, we still have a number of questions that we do not think have been fully answered by the Minister. One is that we are concerned about the rather rigorous closure of many prisons. Should the Minister and his team have considered this too optimistic afterwards, how flexible is he to scale it up? Or is all the real estate already sold and should we start building again? 'Cause that's not the point. We have seen how quickly things can sometimes change in a crisis situation. I would like a little more clarity on the scalability of capacity, also in view of the vi-regulation that will lead to more capacity. We would also like to urge the Minister for Transitional Law. This has already been mentioned by many people and explained very well by, among others, Mr Dittrich and Mrs De Blécourt. This requires a good ECHR-proof solution. I cannot charge the Minister with all of this, but this cabinet has a moderate track record when it comes to legislation: the PAS legislation was killed at the Council of State, we have just seen the merger test in education that, as far as we are concerned, could not pass the quality test of good legislation, Urgenda has been referred back to the Supreme Court. I would once again urge the Minister, also bearing in mind what other speakers have said, to look very closely at the fact that transitional law is in line with the basic principles of criminal law. We await the Minister's response to this point and then we will consider it. As I said, we are in favour of the most important elements of the law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got two minutes 16 left, so you're ahead of schedule.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u18	You'll keep it in stock. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u19	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Members for their second term contribution: the points on the i, the taking of a number of commitments and some additional questions, which I am happy to answer. I would like to pick out two themes, because they were reflected in the speeches made by various groups. First of all, that's the judge's position and independence. We have had a long debate on the purpose and scope of the law, on what it is intended to do and what it does not intend to do, and we are going to follow closely how it works out in many parts. Let me be very clear: the independence of the judge is always beyond question as far as I am concerned. I will always defend it, as I have in the past. I believe that Mr Recourt has never been able to catch me with any comment on a court ruling, and he will not be able to do so in the future either. That's what I promise him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u21	This is one of the things that got me shot in the throat in the debate. I understand the Minister as follows, and I hope the Minister will see that as well. The judge always speaks of an individual case and in an individual case he does not say "here the vi must be three or four years" because that is what the execution is about. The implementation has to make rules and says: we are about to complete the detention. In the individual case, the judge then takes this into account when imposing the penalty and granting the penalty. These are the two responsibilities and domains that are appropriate within the triad. If the Minister says 'the judge should simply impose 20 years and we will decide how to implement it', I sincerely believe that this is a wrong explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u22	Look, we don't have to tell what judges are supposed to impose. We have never done that in the past, and we will not do that in the future either. The legal practice is far too complex for that. It differs from case to case, and it will continue to do so even after this legislative proposal has been introduced. I have always stated that this bill is not about the measure of punishment or the imposition of penalties, but about enforcement. Judges can't make a kind of gross/net calculation even now because it's impossible to predict whether or not someone will be eligible for conditional release. We know that about 10% to 15% is not eligible at all. So that a judge can't include in the imposition of his sentence. We just need to see how things work out from case to case. So I don't think you should do that on a case-by-case basis. I think you should see how punishment measures develop anyway. That's what we've done in the past. If something comes out of it, which we believe should be discussed, then you have to do it at that level of aggregation, but never at the level of an individual case, an individual judge or an individual consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u23	The Minister is a good debater. It's really hard to get him to the core. At least, maybe I'm not expressing myself very well about what's at the heart of my concern. The core of my concern is that the judge measures resocialization, retaliation, all those criminal targets, in an individual case. He looks at policy and legislation on detention. We're going to change it now. That change will therefore have an impact on the balance he makes. Now the Minister says: if, after a while at an aggregated level, we see that the balance is such that the judge does make a kind of net weighting, then we have to start the discussion again. At that point, I think this law has a different purpose. The Minister says that it is not a goal to punish more severely, but in practice you are going to have a discussion about whether or not to raise penalty ceilings or on which route the legislator can choose to throw up the penalties. The undesirable effect is that these penalties go up, or perhaps it is the desired effect. I find that a very difficult point to accept. I don't want them to go down, but I don't want them to go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u24	I'm joining the latter. I don't want the punishment to go down, and I don't want it to go up. This bill is about the execution of penalties. In everything that a judge has to weigh, he mainly looks at the seriousness of the crime and the personal circumstances.... the precise execution of penalties plays a less important role. In any case, that's not what the law requires of the judge. Of course, you never know what's going on in the head. So you never know exactly what its effect will be. I don't think it's weird that we're gonna keep following that and that if you see something, you're gonna have the debate about it. Maybe it's good to put it in extremes for a while. Suppose this bill leads to some sort of automatic discount. A few claim that maybe, although I didn't hear it yesterday and today. Suppose 30 years were previously imposed and the reasoning was that conditional release would occur after 20 years. And let's say that judges are going to fully incorporate this bill: earlier you were released after 20 years; instead of 30 years, we're going to impose 22 years. If we know that in advance, I am the first to withdraw this bill, because then I really do not see what this bill contributes to a greater credibility of our order, to improving the recurrence and to improving security in the Netherlands. However, I do not believe that the effect is going to occur. That's why I stand here confidently and confidently. I know that such discussions have also taken place in the past. There are always concerns and there are always indications of risks, but it appears to be very bad in practice. I think that will also be the case here. I think the intention of the law will be quite similar to how we discussed it today, but I think we should follow it. Let's say the relapse rate doesn't go down, it goes up. It would be strange, of course, if I did not come back to you: we all thought of it this way, but it does not work in practice. That's the way I want to deal with it. I want to make one thing very clear. We should not be prepared to comment on it from case to case or in cases where the judge weighs certain things, immediately with a bar. We're the legislator. We are responsible for our laws. Judges apply them. That's their role. They do that job incredibly well. Above all, we have to stay far from that, but it is healthy to see once in a while whether a law will work out as we intended. That's the way I think I'm gonna deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u25	Mr Recourt, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u26	I thank the Minister for the clarity. Some of them are reassuring, but some of them are absolutely not, but at least that is clear. This is true of the part where the Minister says: I withdraw the law at the time when the judge is going to impose 22 years where he is now imposing 30 years. That is indeed the clarity I am asking for, but here we differ fundamentally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u27	That may be so, but then the question is what exactly does the maximation of conditional release yield? You could also say that you will only take the benefits out of it, while the idea is that we are moving people more gradually towards freedoms, taking more account of what you can do about it within the institution, with very limited freedoms regimes, et cetera, et cetera. There are also a number of advantages in the law. So let's not just stare blindly at the vi-part, which is shortened, but also at the enlargement that is on a number of other points. Mr. Chairman. The second is the transitional right. The question was what exactly I am proposing and what I want to do. Let me be clear. I would like to begin by identifying precisely which group we are dealing with and where the real problems are, so that we know exactly what we are talking about, and also by looking at where the transitional right is really unreasonable, in legal terms 'unfair in nature'. For that, we need to talk and I will talk to the Council for Justice, the Public Prosecutor and the NSA to see how we can deal with that group. I agree with Mrs De Blécourt's suggestion that within two years of entry into force, your Chamber should also be informed of how we deal with this. More specifically, the question was what is the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office or before the courts. I can imagine that the judge takes this into account in imposing his opinion or that the Public Prosecutor's Office takes this into account in his criminal proceedings policy, looking at the extent of the problem and where it now occurs exactly. Mr. Chairman. Then I will go on to a few specific questions and comments that have been made. Mr Cliteur said: for me, the focus on security risks is important. I think we are taking a big step in the right direction with this bill. The risk weighting is thus guaranteed by law and will become part of the assessment of the granting of leave and finally the vi, and I also see that there is always or can be a tension between retaliation and prevention. However, both are important objectives of sanctions policy. I hope that we have managed to find a good balance with the legislative proposal. I am still trying to draw Mrs Veldhoen a little over the line. In the House of Representatives, the GroenLinks Group was after a lot of winks and weighs in the end also for this bill. I tasted in her reaction that she said: we are struggling with the role of the Public Prosecutor in relation to the judge. Sorry, Mrs. Veldhoen; did you just sit down? Maybe I can give you this. The Public Prosecutor's Office is, of course, also part of the magistrate's order. If you compare that with the countries around us within the ECHR, I'm not looking very far away, but just looking at decent, civilized countries, we can see that these kinds of decisions are also on the table of the Public Prosecutor's Office in different neighbouring countries. In fact, in some countries they are even on the board of the executive, i.e. the Ministry or DJI. We didn't choose to do that, just to insert a slightly heavier state of law test. In other words, a decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, with an appeal before the court. I think it is up to your Chamber to consider whether that provides sufficient legal protection. In my eyes, it does. The other point raised by Mrs Veldhoen was that we are another year ahead and that we know more about the implementation. That's right. But then a bit challenging: I was more concerned about the implementation last year than I am now. In the meantime analyses have been carried out and butter has been added to the fish. There is therefore additional money to finance a number of additional tasks. DJI net extra 400 FTE have been recruited in recent months to strengthen the situation. The permanent staff has been increased in relation to the hired employees. That is a positive development. We have really made quite a few meters to be ready before 1 May to start with this. My temptation strategy to Mrs Veldhoven is: look at the state of implementation. That should be the last push to join this bill. I'll give it a shot. In the end, it is up to your group to decide. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt asked whether I would also support the implementation. We were just talking about the judges. I think there should be a good fence around that. Also in the implementation, risk estimates always remain estimates. No one has a glass ball that he can predict what the future looks like. I've had some experience with this. I have been across the street several times to explain in the TBS story, in which this is, of course, the order of the day, that we are on leave to avoid risks. If you want it never to go wrong, you should abolish that leave, but then the Netherlands becomes more unsafe than safer. We can do that here, too, for the parole staff who will have to make that assessment later. We don't expect anyone to be able to predict exactly how things are going. These professionals in practice certainly deserve our cover. At least I'll always give it to them. A question from Mr Recourt was about the structural location of recovery activities. I can give them my word. They're gonna get it. I did like that Mrs Bezaan was talking about the outstretched hand to not only prisoners, but I think that's a good thing; that's where we're all getting better from.... but also towards victims. Maybe I can get two things out of that. I was just talking about Jack Keijzer's victim organization. When I talk to victim organisations, they find two things very attractive about this bill. One is the maximation of conditional release. You'll only have lost your child to murder. Then 24 years is imposed. It really gets in the way of victims when someone gets out after 16 years. I also believe that this really makes a difference in terms of the sense of justice and justice of sanctions policy towards victims. This is true in conjunction with the fact that we are going to take into account victim interests on the test moment, with which we no longer grant it automatically, but that we are really using it for individual decision-making. For example, this allows us to impose additional conditions, taking into account the interests of victims. I will ensure that this is reflected in the evaluation and follow-up, because it is an important objective of this law. Thanks to Mrs Bikker. I liked the parallel with Dostoyevski, but that is of course too much honor immediately. However, it is nice to see those two sides. That, in my opinion, makes this bill so special. That is why I hope it can count on broad support in this Chamber. There is something about the punitive element of sanctions policy, which I believe can gain strength, but there is also something about offering a second chance, helping people more, creating better cooperation and ultimately bringing down the recidivism. Ensure that everyone deserves a second chance in life, but also that everyone is able to seize those opportunities. I'm gonna be tough on that. I have already said something about the deadlines. That is also what we are going to look at. Of course, there are two ways to do that. You suggested a little bit to bring it forward, but you can also pull it back a little bit. I think it's about being able to cope with the calculus. I will include in my talks with the VNG that we will check whether there are any municipalities left behind. In the meantime, we have had good experience of this. Almost all municipalities were connected to such an information system; about 10% were not yet connected. For example, that broke us very much into the Michael P case. We said: no municipality in the Netherlands has an excuse not to do so. Together with the VNG, we have taken a good look at this. As far as I am concerned, we are going to do the same to the other elements, where necessary. Mr Rietkerk asked about the governance agreement and progress report. I'll go into that. It's a bit of puzzles; they both come in somewhere now and two or three weeks. I think his wishes can be well interwoven. We can also show how it works financially, not only in the agreements, but also in what it demands from organisations. Mr Rietkerk had two specific points on the obligation to move and on victims and next of kin. Let me start with the latter. Survivors are subject to the concept of victim in the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 51a. Mr Rietkerk pointed out that in the case of sex cases for victims and next of kin, it is sometimes hard to beat when the perpetrator comes back to live nearby. Every day are reminded of that horrible day, that horrible act. Within both the Vi and the Long-Term Supervision Act there are possibilities to impose this as an additional condition. That goes very far, of course, so we have to deal with it carefully, but the possibility of using it exists within the current legislation and regulations. I just challenged Mrs Veldhoen. Mr Rietkerk challenged me to mention an objective. 50% repeated; where will we be in about four years from now? The tricky thing about repeated events is that short-term objectives never work, because in four to five years' time we will still see the fruits of today's policy. This bill makes the implementation of penalties different. That is already a long-term story, but I think you could taste the long-term benefits of it. It will never be zero, because it is the most complicated target group we have in the Netherlands. However, in the long term, a little bit of growth towards Scandinavian figures, around 30% to 40% of the population, and I am equally cautious about this, I believe, could be a real objective. In any case, that is something that I think we are all getting better at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u28	This is a bit of a shot for an open cause, because we are discussing the law before us and we as the First Chamber cannot change that. But if the Minister says that we want to go to Scandinavian figures, I invite him to go to Scandinavian detention as well. It goes a lot further than the law now before it. May I invite him to go to Norway again, visit an institution there and see how things can really be much better in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u29	Sure, I'm dead. I saw it with my own eyes. But there are also elements in the approach here. Let me take the example of the very limited security department. You have the Scandinavian concept of open prison, where there are prisoners who manage very well. There's not even a fence around it anymore. But if you look at those very limited security departments, in different places in the Netherlands, where we can take people, before they qualify for a vi, for a longer time, where they just work during the day, they can maintain their social contacts, they just go home on the weekends and they actually only come to prison for structure and to stay overnight, then that is a huge step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u30	It may get monotonous, but you say that you want to go to Scandinavian figures and that 30% or 40% would be beautiful. I would remind you once again that all the organisations involved say that this legislative proposal will only increase the recurrence. Can you explain exactly where the organizations are wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u31	Now it becomes a bit of a gray turned record. It's not like everyone's saying the relapse rates are going up. That's bullshit. Concerns have been identified by a number of organisations based on the Dutch Parliamentary Procedure. Part of it was included in the consultation. As a result of a number of amendments, the follow-up options have been greatly extended in the House's proceedings, particularly before the vi-date, in my opinion, at the request of Mrs Kuiken of the Labour Party. That has led to a lot of these organisations saying at the moment that they can get out of the way with this law. Well, let's face it, you're normally buried under the letters in really controversial legislative proposals. I have not seen so many, except Mrs Ficq's on a point which I think is relevant, not with the solution I would like, but with which we had to do something. I think that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u32	The last thing I have to admit is that we are not being attacked at the moment. But if you ask about the probation, then there is concern about the re-socialization possibilities. In the first instance, the words I have here are, of course, quite spicy, among others, from the RSJ, which says that the safety of society is not served by it and that it limits too much the resocialization possibilities. The Court of Justice points out the negative impact on the reduction of repeated cases. I think that's pretty strong words. I will stick to the point: what is the opposite of research, which shows that it is being brought down? I haven't seen that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u33	Then we will quickly return to the written procedure! I have indicated there with footnotes about all the research that shows that a personal approach to the five key elements helps. All criminologists are convinced of that. That's in the bill. The exchange of information, which makes it possible to communicate freely between authorities about prisoners, which is now an obstacle, is facilitated by this legislative proposal. That makes it better to play on that. That's part of the scientific foundation. If you look at the empirical actual duration of supervision, we come to one and a half to two years. If you plot that within the vi, at least that fits perfectly. And then we haven't even taken the time to offer people, in very limited time and regimes or with reintegration leave, more freedoms during the detention period. These are many well-founded elements, which make me truly convinced that we will soon be able to get out of the way with this bill. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rietkerk mentioned a very specific group, namely those who are really ill. I'm just calling it sick in the head. He pointed to tbs. There are possibilities within the regular prison system. To treat people, we have PCs. Where a disorder has really been at the root of committing a crime, we have the possibility of imposing the TBs measure. The beauty of the TBS measure is that it is, at least the most far-reaching variant, for an unlimited period of time. As long as there is a danger to society, the measure can be renewed over and over again. Of course no one wants people to, but someone who is so sick in his head and is so insane that he really continues to pose a great danger to society, may not have to go back to that society his whole life. That's why we have about a hundred longstayers. We have to look at that over and over again. It may be that with the new state of science or with medicine something changes again. But I'd rather those people get the treatment in a proper place than send them back into society. Then the point of the internships. Mr Dittrich and Mr Rietkerk referred to this. Can we do some extras over there? I'm gonna do my best. It'll be quite a challenge. That internship might be a way to get a job. I can also see that in other sectors this is not going to happen. Now, of course, the challenges are not small in the prison system either. We've been asking for a lot of extras from our people in corona time. But I believe that we, as public organisations, have a good example to set. And DJI is a fantastic organization where people, especially from the MBO, can internship. Mrs De Blécourt has expressed some of the commitments in a way that I agree with. So I don't have so much more to add to that. She asked me for a final commitment on transitional law. That's what I just started. Mr Janssen talked about feeling and expectations. How exactly does it work out? I felt that yesterday, in his contribution to the first term, he was much more positive than he was now in his second term. Perhaps I should have done a little better in my response to hold on to that enthusiasm. But the point is, of course, that this applies to me, but that it applies to every organization that says: 'I still have a concern here' or 'I see a risk there'. No one knows what they're going to do, and I don't know exactly how this is going to work out. You can provide sufficient support with experience and scientific research and with facts and figures from the past, but they do not guarantee the future. I've tried to address the concerns by saying that I think it's not that bad and that I don't think it's going so fast. And then you say, "Yes, I'll have to see that again first." I couldn't agree more. But I didn't just say we'd watch it for a while. I have also indicated what we can do if it turns out to be something else than we expected. Then, of course, I'll come back to you. If the recidivism rate is going to rise, then the bill does not do what it is intended to do. And then it would be really weird if a Legal Affairs Minister didn't knock on the door of the Chambers again and said that we might have to make some adjustments or that more money would be needed. That is the normal process of legislation and of budget. Then there's the promise that we won't start until all the problems are solved. Look, we're not starting out as soon as possible, from the mid-term reviews that are still taking place in the run-up to May 1st, it turns out that there are still major risks and major dangers and that the implementation is not going to go well. Everyone wants this to work; I want this to work. At the same time, the reality is, of course, that this bill also helps to solve a number of problems. One of the big problems now is that we all work very hard every day to improve socialization, but that we also hit the wall every day so hard that the law now says that we should not exchange information. As far as I am concerned, that has to end as soon as possible. I think we should not just look at a number of conditions that need to be in order before we start, but also at the problems that this bill can solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u34	My question was a little more specific; I did not put it in such broad terms. My question was very specific about what happens when the human element is not in order. You're recruiting and things are happening. But what if that human element isn't in order and you don't start from day one with new people who can get started? Then you're gonna lag behind, and all you get is delays. So that's not wise. My question was very specific. You're recruiting now. You say: I am happy with the reviews that come in between and the state of affairs. You even tried to cross the line with Mrs Veldhoen to be in favour of this bill. I just want clarity. We've had some other experiences in the Environment Act. Suppose that the staff are not in order, and you know that well in advance and there are still large gaps in the personnel file at the DJIs and at the parole board and anyone who has to work with people who are inundating from day one. Will you say in good time that we should not do it, because these people are so important and the employees are already overloaded? Then you say, "We just don't have to do it?" The budget is there, but somehow we just don't have those people on the work floor yet. And then we need to invest a little extra in people's attention. Are you going to start or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u35	Eventually, we're gonna have to do it with these people, so that's got to be in order. In general, I would like to give this to Mr Janssen. That means you want the formation, in terms of occupation, to be in order. That is 99%, I believe, at the moment. I'll take a look across the street. There's nodding. That's already a huge achievement. Incredible hard work is being done to recruit people even in these difficult times. But it's not just about staff strength and occupation. Of course, we also look at absenteeism, but also at what people have in their luggage. If they've had an education, they're ready for et cetera et cetera. Of course, we're all gonna work hard on that. At the same time, I realise that on 1 May a survey by the FNV will not reveal that the workload has suddenly disappeared. The workload in the prison system is just high. But I think that this bill will also make it better for the workplace, because you will have instruments in your hands on a number of parts and obstacles will be removed to make work better. I would like to give that to Mr Janssen. I feel so sorry for him. If your people aren't ready, don't do it. But when he says on 1 May that the workload is still high, my answer will be that we are trying to make the work on parts easier with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u36	I'm just gonna forget the Minister's last two sentences for myself and go back to two sentences for that. Then he said if people aren't ready, we shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u37	Then we agree. Mr Otten asked about another form of capacity: places and real estate. We're following that very closely. Here too, of course, we work with estimates. We can't look into a glass ball there either, but based on past experience we know about how things are going. For example, you can look at judgments of judges. Which way do they go? That also means something for the detention places you need. I'm the minister. I believe that a punishment, if imposed by a judge, should be carried out as quickly as possible and that you should have room for that. I think that we are doing just fine with the current places, but if they turn out to be too little over time, I will, of course, come back to you over time. I can tell you that the real estate we've disposed of has not been sold. At least that hasn't happened yet. Of course, it's all about pretty common real estate. I believe that Zoetermeer's prison, which has been closed for years, has still not been closed long before my time. Once in a while we put the heat up for a while, so that the place doesn't decay. So we do have some kind of backup, if it's really necessary. But again, I do not foresee that, in the very short term, as a result of capacity developments, we will come out of the reserve capacity of 2,000 places. Finally. I feel like that's more like a confirmation that it's safe and sound. We have talked about the right of transition and that should be reasonable. Mr Otten wanted to know if it was ECHR legal proof. I can make a full commitment to that. That's really checked from front to back. I think I've answered all the questions with that. I want to thank everyone, because this is something. We're like the Justice Department. We're one big law firm. We are standing here at regular intervals, but this is of a magnitude that I like that we have been able to talk about openly. I noticed that there were different accents, but I also noticed that there was a willingness on the part of the various groups and spokesmen to try to balance the pluses and the mins that sometimes are in them. I wish everyone a good debate in the political groups. Again, as in the House of Representatives, I hope for broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u38	I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-9.u39	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? Mr Otten, and a number of others. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I shall now suspend the sitting until 3.15 p.m. pending the arrival of the Minister of Finance.
