ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the goodbye to Mr Anne Mulder from the VVD. Mr Anne Mulder wrote a farewell letter on 16 September 2020, which I will now read out. "Dear President, dear Khadija, This afternoon, the city council of The Hague appointed me alderman. Although the law allows this function to be combined with parliamentary membership, that is practically impossible. That is why I want to end my Second Parliamentary Membership with effect from 18 September. For example, I can vote on the motions submitted to the General Political Reviews and a new member of the VVD Chamber can be installed in time for the next votes. You never know if some opposition thugs are going to go back to voting. For me, aldermanship in The Hague means that I can trade my one dream job for the other. Between 2002 and 2010, I have been a city council member with passion for the city. Now I can do that again as an alderman. Once, I was given a piece of advice about making a farewell speech. The main pitfall of this speech is that at the end of your time you're going to say what you should have said during your time. That is why I will keep this letter of departure brief. All the more so since the second part of the opinion was: if you want to say something, choose a neutral subject, such as the hall of your farewell. Let that advice be useless in this particular case. My dream job's gonna be a few months early. But it's hard to leave the House of Representatives at a good time. If you leave before the elections, your electorate will be fooled; if you do not have a job after the elections, you will be thrown away as a waiting-money pocket-filler. Whatever you do, it's never good, I'll tell you in advance as an interruption. My party entered the elections in 2010 under the motto "order of business." As a Member of Parliament, I have been allowed to conduct a coalition in different compositions for ten years. That was not always easy with certain friends, not to mention friends who were democratically provided. But because of the sometimes difficult but necessary reforms and cuts that have been launched since 2010, we now have resilience and a buffer that allows us to cope with the financial consequences of the corona virus. I'm glad. It was a privilege and pleasure to be a Member of Parliament. I would like to thank everyone for their cooperation. Good luck to you! Anne Mulder'
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Dear Mr Mulder, dear Anne, You are one of the MPs who, when you entered the Chamber in 2010, brought a lot of life experience. With your background as an inspector at the Ministry of Finance, employee of the group of the VVD, policy officer at the Ministry of Interior and council member in The Hague, you had the necessary experience with politics and governance. But real life got to know you in your time as a blue helmet at Dutchbat. You were there when the enclave of Srebrenica was overrun. You told me a lot about that in a documentary by Coen Verbraak. That made a lot of impression, including on us as colleagues. Mr Wilders said it in a debate in the summer recess. He said thank you for your contribution as a soldier. I think he did the same on behalf of all of us. But I don't think it's a secret either when I say that it's not easy for a Dutch military to deal with female MPs. You were on the VWS committee with Mona Keijzer, Fleur Agema and Renske Leijten. Emotions, you couldn't do anything with that. You thought that was a bit scary and sometimes impressive. You've said a lot of things about all those women on the committee, and not always in a positive way. You knew that. I'm not gonna repeat your exact words, but you got it back double and square. Liesbeth van Tongeren and Renske Leijten did not miss an interview or debate to remind you of your words. They didn't do that subtlely, and I had to get in the middle a lot. Fortunately, in 2017, you got a different portfolio, Europe, and you also became chairman of the Finance Committee. You thought, "Well, I'm gonna have to deal with other colleagues." But what you didn't know is that Renske also got the portfolio Europe and became a member of the Finance Committee. And as if that weren't enough, you also got Pieter Ommzigt. I remember the weekend calls about the preparation group on the childcare allowance, which Renske Leijten and Pieter Omtzigt were in. Of that, the committee found that they were actually out of line. I was supposed to call them to order. So I called one Saturday first Pieter Ommzigt, who was on the tennis court with his daughters, and he said, "I don't know what you're talking about." Then I called Renske Leijten, who was eating ice cream on a bench with her kids. And he said, "The gloves are going out now." But luckily it always worked out and you could always laugh at it. That dry humor was your salvation, Anne. Just like that one time a few years ago at the Members' Restaurant, I never forget that when Renske came excited and happy to say that she was getting married. And you said, "I didn't know you could say yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	I'm really gonna miss that dry humor. Dear Anne, I don't know as many MPs as you have traveled. I don't rule out being the most traveling MP. You visited almost all the countries of the Balkans. You were also always present at receipts in the Lower House. I'm very grateful for that, because you just thought you should welcome your guests nicely. You said, "Even if you don't agree with them, it's important to receive our guests properly and talk to them, because that's what we expect when we visit them." With your record in the Chamber, it's no wonder you're taking the step to aldermanship now. You're ready to drive. A dream job, you call it. And Liesbeth van Tongeren is waiting for you, because she is also in the lecture of The Hague! I don't think your new place of work is more than 200 yards away, so I'm sure we'll run into you a few times. But to make sure you don't forget us and your time in Lower House, I want to give you something. For His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau. Unfortunately, I'm not allowed to pin the decorations myself because of the corona rules, but I'd like to hand them to you remotely. Take care!
