ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the outcome of the European Summit on the Recovery Fund. I would like to welcome the Members of Parliament and the Prime Minister, the people in the public gallery and the people who may follow this debate through the website of the House of Representatives. In the first period, Members may put four questions to each other. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u2	It's a very expensive signature the Prime Minister signed on July 21st. What exactly happened there? It has been said here in the Chamber that we do not want political union. Rutte is coming home, the Prime Minister is coming home with a further deepening of the Union. The European Commission will have more power and more money. The coalition agreement states that we do not incur joint debts. The Prime Minister comes home with joint debts. Clear conditions would be laid down for recourse to the emergency fund. There won't be any. The European Commission decides and that is a political committee and not a technical committee. Last year, this Prime Minister said that the multiannual budget was unacceptablely high. Now he comes home with a higher multiannual budget. We all said, with the exception of a few, that countries which undermine the rule of law, who violate human rights, should no longer receive money, or that conditions should at least be laid down. The anti-democrats can still receive money from Europe and thus establish their power and undermine human rights. No agreement has been reached on reforms that will eliminate self-enrichment. We do not want European taxes and, as a blow, the Prime Minister comes home with an action plan from the European Commission with 25 action points. Over and over again, this Prime Minister leaves the House of Representatives and the Dutch people in the cold, and not only the Dutch population. This Prime Minister fails when it comes to keeping justice from his back. Why is that happening? What kind peace is kept here? Can he explain that? Why didn't the Prime Minister say after those four days: I have to submit this to my Parliament; I'm not going to agree to anything, I'm going to talk to my Parliament first? The plans we're seeing right now have been there for ages. That's what I'm sorry about. For many years, different movements have wanted a political European Union and a political currency union. Under the motto of a health crisis, they're pushing it through now. How sick can it be? But we must show solidarity, then, is the answer. Yes, the SP would have preferred us to help countries directly if they were in great distress. After all, we have been helped sometimes when we were in great distress. But now we have a recovery fund with loans that are going to be economic investments that have nothing to do with corona. When it comes to solidarity, why do we leave all those people in Moria, where they are literally getting too hot? When it comes to human dignity, why are we still dragging those migrant workers who have to work for far too low wages and under appalling conditions? If it were really to do the rule of law, we would have had countries that do not respect the free press, which even allow journalists to be murdered, for a long time now. But none of that. We are not standing alongside the people in Bulgaria, who have been on the streets for two months, today, to demonstrate against the corrupt government, which is enriched with EU funds. With this plan, we are not giving hope, but a blow to the face: showcase yourself further, but we will ensure that your powers continue to be rich with European money. If this is the European Union, I wonder. Mr. Chairman. This is not good, because we have nothing to say about it. 27 Heads of Government sit together in a hot cooker and Italians, Germans, Hungarians, Greeks and Dutch are not asked anything. It has nothing to do with democracy. In substance, the Prime Minister has failed, but certainly democratically. That is why I call on him: go back to Brussels, say that you signed your signature too soon and first listen to the parliament and the people about how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Mr Wilders has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. I've really had it with this Prime Minister. Every time he spends our best interests. It's crazy to freak out. First it was Greece and now the rest of southern Europe is on our infusion. Every day Prime Minister Rutte is Prime Minister of the Netherlands, there is too much. I have already tabled a motion of censure against him in the debate on the European Summit this summer, as you can remember. He refused to admit that he would use his right of veto against this money bounce to stop this misery. On having a spine, Mr. Rutte, we've never caught you. Now he's gonna give away our hard-earned money and leave our own people in the cold. While the Netherlands sighed this summer under the effects of the corona crisis, unemployment rose, more and more households came into debt, their rents and their energy bills could no longer pay, Rutte signed a total package of over 1,800 billion euros on behalf of the Netherlands. Of these, 6%, some EUR 100 billion, are Dutch taxpayers' money. He signed for an astronomical budget of the European Union. He signed for a recovery fund, for gifts, for loans, for common debts and for more power from the European Commission. The man who was called mister no by the naives said yes in Brussels when it came to it. As we are used to, he bowed to Frau Merkel, kneeled before Macron and pulled the checkbook for Italy. Angela's lapdog has been allowed to bark for a while, but eventually runs well again. Mr. Chairman. It is now, of course, a celebration in southern Europe, of our money. Italy will receive a grant of EUR 85 billion, Spain will receive 71 billion, France will receive 51 billion, Greece will receive 20 billion and so on. Prime Minister Conte was welcomed as a hero on the return of the European Summit in Rome. Italy is now going to increase pensions for some of the population. Greece is going to reduce VAT. As I said earlier, France is giving care workers a massive structural increase in salaries. For the Dutch, there is no VAT reduction in this crisis time, no pension increase and no structural salary increase for healthcare workers. Nothing at all! This summer, the Prime Minister gave 100 billion of our taxpayers' money to Southern Europe and Brussels. May I ask you, Prime Minister, what mandate did you actually give away that 100 billion? What election program did that say? Could there have been a referendum left? Who gave you permission to allow the Netherlands to be the European Union's ATM again? The answer is, of course, that no one has done that at all. The Dutch people have not been asked. Nothing at all! I assure you that if the Dutchman had had the right to choose, he would have chosen something else. He had said no and of course he would have preferred to spend those billions in his own country. So, Mr. Rutte, where do you get the guts to throw so much money, 100 billion, over the bar without asking anyone in the Netherlands? It's unforgivable that you did that. You should have refused to sign. You should have put your fist on the table and said 'no, nein, nun' instead of kneeling, crawling and bowing again to all those vultures from Brussels. You should have spent that money in our own country and on our own people. You didn't. That is unacceptable, and that is why you must leave as far as we are concerned, and as far as I am concerned today. Madam President, I will therefore be tabling a motion of censure again this evening against this Prime Minister, who I hope will not be Prime Minister for much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Mr Krol has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. In the EU, the answer to all problems is very simple: more gifts, more loans, more money, more EU. Money passed through Brussels from north to south. This is the only way to preserve the Brussels illusion of a federal Europe. Before the negotiations, the Prime Minister stood up as a true mister no-no. But it soon became yes-yes. The Prime Minister and Minister Hoekstra have so far driven the Dutch economy reasonably, compared to the neighbouring countries, through the corona crisis. Unfortunately, this result has been more than nullified by the negotiation of the Prime Minister during an expensive weekend in Brussels. A weekend of 1,800 billion. The Netherlands is now also up to 2058 years old, then the Prime Minister is now stuck with the respectable age of 91 years old with an additional payment of 1 billion a year. That money does not go, as the name suggests, to corona repair, but above all to the European Green Deal of Commissioner Timmermans. We have been messed up by the Prime Minister in a transfer union, without any democratic decision ever taken, without being able to vote on it in a referendum. Rutte's sales trick was this time the miracle cure called "emergency brake." However, there was only one effective means, which is called "veto." My question to the Prime Minister is this: did you have the big Member States pack up in Brussels? Or didn't you fight hard enough for Dutch interests? I'm afraid the answer to both questions is yes, yes. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues ask me to continue along the lines of the three previous speakers, so I have to change my story a little, as you will understand, because I was going to approach it a little differently. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is actually pleased that there is a recovery fund. Of course you should always be careful when using big words, such as 'this was a historic agreement', but it is good that the recovery fund is there. The European Union thus shows that it is helping the citizens of Europe when it really matters. The reasonable outcome of that recovery fund is also due to the fact that our Prime Minister did not get his way on important points. Or because he's been accommodating, you could say. Maybe he prefers that. Is it about the size of the recovery fund? That's where he didn't get his way. Is it about joint debt-taking? Mrs. Leijten said so. Is this about gifts? 390 billion. The Netherlands didn't want that, but it did. The question to the cabinet is how the Prime Minister looks back on the strategy followed. The comments are not too positive. Just this morning, Senator Knapen of the CDA said in the Volkskrant: "We should have seen the German turn coming much sooner. We have been wrongly condescending, he spoke directly to the Prime Minister about Franco-German cooperation on this point and are completely locked up in a coalition of small kneel countries." And the question is whether that has been wise. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the recovery fund has been put in place. I have said that before, but unfortunately, as far as the Multiannual Financial Framework is concerned, what we have been afraid of for some time and for which we have often warned. If you focus so strongly on quantity, you'll turn to quality. Then you might win a battle, but then you lose the war. Look at Horizon, look at Erasmus, look at the budget for migration and border surveillance, look at the budget for international cooperation: all these posts were cut at the last minute, because the Netherlands wanted a lower budget. That has been the dynamic of those last four days of that long negotiation process. I'm curious to see how the Prime Minister looks at that. What exactly did he win at that point? Mr. Chairman. I also have questions about the green dimension, both in the MFF and in the recovery fund. At least 30% should be deployed, contributing to climate change mitigation. That is good, but real greening requires radical reform of the common agricultural policy. This calls for further clarification of the "do no harm" principle agreed. The Prime Minister might be able to give it to him. How's that gonna work in practice? And it calls for the adoption of the motion that says: no more European money should go to support the fossil industry. I would like a response from the Prime Minister on how the Netherlands is going to achieve this. Mr President, briefly on the rule of law. The rule of law applies in countries such as Poland and Hungary from evil to worse. There are lhbti-free zones in Poland and this morning there was the news that the Polish Government wants to dismiss the last independent judges from the Supreme Court. In addition, the media and the cultural institutions in Hungary are muzzled. How does what has been agreed, an ex-post review rather than a much better ex-ante review, now contribute to the effective sanctioning of countries that violate the rule of law? And how are we going to contribute to the fact that countries will no longer be able, on the one hand, to claim funds from that European pot if, on the other hand, they do not comply with the rules of the rule of law? Finally, Mr President. I can't help it: the terrible fire at Camp Moria on Lesbos. Over 10,000 refugees fled again last night. Run again! Who's gonna catch them? Where are they being taken? How does the desperation and misery that they have been prey to for years come to an end? Are we finally going to do what is so much support in Dutch society? In any case, let us welcome the most vulnerable of them in the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. We're freaked out. The European Union's EUR 750 billion corona emergency fund should be paid from loans issued by the European Union itself. 50PLUS in itself does not object to this as much as the European Union itself would borrow that money with its own income as collateral. In this way, the EU can bring forward the money so that it can fight the consequences of the merciless corona crisis today. So far, so good. But what am I reading today? The EU simply forwards the account as a separate invoice to the Member States and not instead of, but on top of, the normal EU contribution, which it would also explicitly like to increase. My predecessor Martin van Rooijen has said it many times: we understand that there must be room for compromise, but it is unacceptable to be bitten not only by the cat and the dog but also by the rest of the zoo. Mr. Chairman. The EU can borrow that money very cheaply. A recovery fund of 750 billion represents an additional interest burden of perhaps 5 or 10 billion for the EU. Hence my question as to what it means when it is written in the newspapers this morning that we have to pay an additional 1 billion a year for interest charges. We don't think that's the right way to do it. We should not take every opportunity in Brussels to raise even more money, but we should also make choices ourselves. In this respect, we are not very satisfied with the way in which the Dutch no against the increase in the MFF, in the sense that other expenditures have been cut rather than agricultural expenditure. After all, the EU could easily finance the recovery fund itself from agricultural expenditure, perhaps from the equipment costs and generous salaries. I would therefore urge the Prime Minister, on behalf of my group, to keep the debate on the financing of the EU purely. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the European Recovery Fund can become as large as it wants, as long as the EU in Brussels itself bears the burden from its own budget within the MFF. We don't want to get a separate bill for that. As I said, the MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework, as far as we are concerned, is the place where the debate on the level of payments, the account we pay to the EU, must be conducted, and that is complicated enough. Complicated is also thinking about the debt issue after this crisis. The euro countries which already have more than 100% public debt are also the worst affected Corona countries. According to 50PLUS, we need to think quickly about this issue. It's not enough just to assume a rosary and moonshine scenario where everything's gonna be okay. Restoring, restructuring, withdrawing or converting debt to extremely long terms is almost inevitable, and what do we have in the Netherlands at the lowest public debt? That's why there's another thought experiment. Isn't it better for us to be a midget? The difference between the Dutch and Italian public debt is about 60% of gross domestic product, almost 500 billion euros. It has often changed here: the Italians have less private debts than the Netherlands. Would it not therefore be appropriate for us to transfer such a sum to the private sector by increasing our own public debt, in order to reduce private debt? Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what his cabinet has done with Mr Azarkan's and myself's motion asking for the funds of the recovery fund to be used effectively and effectively and to give the European Court of Auditors a strong role. And what can he say about the claims made from the Netherlands to the recovery fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Mr Sjoerdsma has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr. Chairman. We are looking back today at an important European summit, at an agreement that some might describe as a historic agreement on the corona emergency fund and on the European budget. Unlike the other speakers today, I would like to begin by congratulating the Prime Minister and, by the way, the groups of my coalition colleagues, because this agreement was necessary and necessary. We have dared to break taboos. We have looked a little through the coalition agreement; let me just call it that. Of course, months of battle preceded it. Sometimes it was even harmful. But in the end, the Prime Minister stepped over his shadow, and that deserves a compliment. What's the deal? Hundreds of billions of loans, joint debt, investing in our common future; and of course we will also introduce European taxes on plastics, technotics and CO at the border in the coming years. That's important. Not because of these measures, but because the agreement is necessary, especially for the export country of the Netherlands. Trade within the European Union accounts for 70% of our exports, and Dutch exports to Spain and Italy alone are more than our exports to China. Dutch employers know this, Dutch companies know this: that market is simply vital to us. And when the south drowns in its own debt mountain, it hits the Netherlands hard. Without European recovery, no Dutch recovery. And that is what this agreement is. Mr. Chairman. I'm happy with... Mr Baudet, I say on behalf of the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u13	No, no, no, Mr. Baudet, I don't see you on the list as a speaker. Then you shouldn't interrupt. I understand now that there is a new list. You've signed up. Then you'll have your turn, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u14	I have also seen Mr Baudet standing, but in person.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u16	Can Mr Sjoerdsma explain why the countries he thinks are so in need cannot simply borrow on the capital market? Why is there a need for a European fund? Why can't Italy just borrow money on the capital market itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u17	We have seen before in the euro crisis that Italy's financial position, as well as that of the other southern countries, became so precarious that the spreads increased, that it became more difficult for those countries to withdraw money from the market and that those countries were heading for the abyss. I have just said that this is something that must be prevented at all costs. I know that your party, the Forum for Democracy, does not think that the next solution is the best solution, but the reality is that Dutch companies and Dutch exports depend on what is happening in Italy, Spain and Greece for an incredible part. That's hard self-interest, Mr. Baudet. Hard self-interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u18	Okay, but apart from whether or not you want to be in the EU and so on, we disagree, that's true...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u19	That's not a small point, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u20	No, but it doesn't have much to do with the current situation either, because those countries can just borrow. You come up with a theoretical situation in which countries could no longer borrow, but that situation is not at all appropriate at the moment. There is not now an impossibility for southern European countries to borrow. The interest rate on government bonds is normal, not very high. There is enough room for Italy, France, Spain and so on to simply borrow on the capital market. There is therefore no reason for a European Solidarity Fund. So your whole story, which is based on the idea that it's all about that, is based on one condition, which is that they couldn't borrow anymore. That has indeed happened once before, but is not the case now. Not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u21	And do you know why that is, Mr. Baudet? This is because, for example, the European Union has rigged the ESM to prevent these spreads from developing and to ensure, Mr Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u22	So now the situation is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr. Baudet: and to make sure that there can be borrowed now. I understand that Mr Baudet likes to talk about these things and does not like to talk about what his nexit means and why we need to show solidarity with these countries. Why, for example, would his nexit mean that in the Netherlands all farmers would lose agricultural subsidies. Why his nextit would mean that the port worker in Rotterdam might lose his job or the logistics company in Venlo goes bankrupt. I understand that Mr Baudet wishes to deny that there is a link between what is happening in southern Europe and what is happening in the Netherlands. That is what Mr Baudet always does, and that is what he is now projecting on the need to borrow. But I can tell you, Baudet, you are one of the few people, not only in the Netherlands but throughout the European Union, who did not think this was necessary. Almost all economists considered this unlikely to be necessary. And then I ask you: wouldn't this be the time to think about whether you should change your mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u24	So Mr Sjoerdsma states that if this emergency fund were not to be rigged, the Netherlands would have to leave the European Union? That's what he thinks it's the choice? 'Cause I totally don't understand why he's bringing up retirement. I do not think that is the issue at all. But apparently he does. Why does he bring that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u25	I come here because this emergency fund is about European solidarity. It is about the internal market. It is about ensuring that our companies, our jobs and the Netherlands have a future. Mr Baudet is talking about the loan. That's good. I gave him an answer to that. My question to Mr Baudet was much more fundamental than that. I think it's important to talk about that. Mr Baudet does not want this emergency fund alone. He doesn't want the recovery fund. He doesn't want the MFK. He wants nothing to do with the European Union. And I tell him: the disadvantages of not having this fund are great, but the disadvantages of not having the European Union are much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u26	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr Sjoerdsma presented this as the choice: either this fund or no EU. But that's not the order at all, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u28	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u29	That's what you're saying. You say that the disadvantages of the fund are great, but the disadvantages of not being in the EU are much greater. That seems to you to be the choice, whereas these countries can simply borrow on the capital market at normal interest rates. Even if you are in favour of the EU, even if you do not agree with me that we should not be in the EU in principle, there is still no argument to support this fund. You do not go into that and come up with an ad hominem: yes, but Mr Baudet does not comb his hair well, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u30	It's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u31	That has nothing to do with this subject. It is simply about why a fund is being rigged now, while Italy and other southern European countries can simply borrow, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u32	I'll never give you any advice about your haircut, but I've already given you my answer, twice already. The reason these southern European countries can borrow is because of the European Union...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u33	But it's not because of this fund, is it? It's about this fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u34	If you want an answer, you have to listen to the answer. Otherwise, it will be very difficult to get that answer. It is thanks to the European Union, the ESM and also this fund. Yes, this fund too, because otherwise the interest paid by these countries will be much higher. I'm just gonna take Italy as an example. Italy has, in fact, had a budget surplus for years, if it were not to have a heavy interest burden. So if you are talking about the sustainability of the public finances of these countries, the sustainability of their economy, and hence of our own economy, yes, then this is vitally necessary. For the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u35	I suggest you move on. You're well-registered, Mr. Baudet. I missed you. But go on; he doesn't hear it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u36	I am therefore pleased that there is an agreement, but not entirely happy with how the agreement was reached. I believe that the fact that the Prime Minister is today opposed to a largely critical Chamber is also due to the fact that he himself did not want to give fully-ready wine on the stakes. It has already been said by colleague Van Ojik. You knew this commitment: an MFF of up to 1%, no joint debt, no subsidies, no European taxes. It all came out anyway. It was all about what shouldn't come, when the question might be: what should have come and why should there have been such a necessity? So you don't have to go to Brussels with a "no" and then come home with a "yes, but," because that creates the image that you go to Brussels and negotiate against Brussels. That's where you come out in the imagery as an undeniable loser. This also affects the image people have of the European Union. I do not think that is right, because there is another option: to explain honestly why this support package is needed, to provide support for European compromises, to say that European recovery is simply a tough Dutch interest, to stress that there is a need for a strong Europe and to work hard to ensure that Europe is a player on the world stage, but not become the playing field of some others on this world stage. So I say to the Prime Minister: dare explain those political choices. Mr. Chairman. The European Parliament still has to approve this agreement. That brings me to my two criticisms. The European Parliament has two serious concerns: the rule of law and the money for science. It's already been mentioned. As far as I am concerned, there is still an opportunity for the Prime Minister to do something extra on those points which are less than we would have liked to see. Of course, the July agreement cannot be broken. I understand that very well, but I also understand that there is a possibility that if there is a need to move the European Parliament on board, things will change. My question to the Prime Minister is: is he prepared to use more money for the Horizon Europe programme to ensure that the European Parliament is on board? The second point concerns the rule of law mechanism to ensure that conditionality in the Council's discussion is really tough. I ask this because there are great concerns, and I would like to mention just one country; I think that the country Hungary should be mentioned here about the relationship between the money that that country receives, the funds that that country receives, and what is happening there. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that my fellow Members have already done so with the terrible disaster in Lesbos yesterday: the fire that raged there, the despair of the people, who had already had nothing and who now have to spend the night without tents, without shelter. You actually thought it couldn't be worse, but it could be worse. I am pleased to see that the cabinet immediately gave the first emergency support. But I also ask the Cabinet to see what else can be done so that these people can be heard as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u37	I find the latter hypocritical, because you could have just arranged for 500 children who were there without parents and without guidance to be safe in the Netherlands for a long time. That's the chance D66 lost. But I'd like to ask D66 if she thinks she's a democratic party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u39	Then what does D66 think democratically that the Prime Minister has signed something that he has diametrically received from this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u40	I have two elements to mention here. One. As with all other European summits, the Prime Minister has broadly shared his commitment with the Chamber. He has also tested his commitment, widely tested. Then he negotiated and now he comes back with an agreement. We are going to see tonight, Mrs Leijten says that the Prime Minister did not have a democratic mandate or that this Prime Minister has a majority in favour of it. I guarantee you, I dare give it to you on a platter that the Prime Minister has the support to do so. To be honest, I think it goes a long way to call this process non-democratic. Given how we do all these European summits and how we conduct the look-back debate, I think it is rather big words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u41	Oh, so the Prime Minister went there with a public order, but had already made a deal with the coalition that he could drop this and drop it? That's not democratic. That's not public either. That is anything but democratic. I'll ask D66 another question. Didn't D66 always want that political floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u43	Didn't D66 always want to share debts? And didn't D66 always want this political currency union?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u44	However, just a moment about the concept of "negotiation," because I think this is really important. The Prime Minister has shared his mandate here. In my view, it is no surprise to Mrs Leijten that we, as D66, were partly in favour of this mandate and partly thought: well, we had just done something else. But as far as that mandate is concerned, there was a majority in the Chamber. Mrs Leijten says that the Prime Minister has returned and has given away things that were not in that mandate. I have to tell you that the concept of "negotiation" means that you can't get your way completely. It just can't be. This can only be done if you have 76 seats in this house, or if you are allowed to decide everything on your own in the European Union. That's not gonna happen. You are asking the Prime Minister, Mr President, I would like to stand up for him if no one else in this Chamber wants to do so in order to come back with exactly his mandate. To be quite honest, I wonder which government leader in Europe has come back with exactly his or her mandate. I don't think that's real.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u45	This is exactly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u46	I do not think that is realistic, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u47	I have exactly to the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u48	To the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mrs. Leijten, you can finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u50	There were two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u51	I ask a very simple question and I get that arrogant, endless answer from D66 again. It's always the same. D66 stands here boasting: you will see that the Prime Minister has a majority. I didn't see it. The coalition agreement is broken, elected chamber motions are broken. My analysis is that D66 supports this, but that the majority of this Chamber does not support this in advance. If that were to be supported afterwards, the Prime Minister should not have signed off on it, but then the parliamentary groups here should have been exposed with their buttocks and said: okay, we are changing our position. Now pretending it's just a run is undemocratic, deeply undemocratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u52	I'm going to surprise Mrs Leijten. I agree in part with her on this point, but in a different way than she probably thinks. My point to the Prime Minister was: be honest about what is possible in the European Union and create support for what is likely to come out. We have all seen how France and Germany started this process. If that had happened, perhaps Mrs Leijten would have been a little less angry about the difference between the original effort and the outcome. I'm sure I'd like to give that to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u53	A greater humiliation for the Prime Minister than a four-minute compliment from D66 is not conceivable. D66 has won on all fronts, on all fronts. The Prime Minister of the Netherlands has spent an additional 100 billion, from budget to recovery fund, loans and gifts, they are not subsidies, they are gifts to the European Union. They have given more power to the European Commission. They have a joint debt issue. You actually got everything. Compliments for that. But the result is that in your vision the Netherlands doesn't actually exist anymore, that you gave the Netherlands away. Those billions could have been spent here, in our country, on our care workers, on our people who want lower rents and on our entrepreneurs, who want lower VAT in this crisis time. We should have done that, of course. We should have brought sovereignty back. So on the one hand, a big compliment to you for getting the Prime Minister down on his knees like this, the spineless man. On the other hand, I really hope that the electorate will immediately reward that party with three seats in March, because you are destroying the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u54	We have staff who can write this out in two seconds and then it sounds better than what Mr Wilders is doing now. It is, of course, easy to say: you are destroying the Netherlands because you want to cooperate a lot at European level. But I say to Mr Rutte this... Eh, Mr. Wilders; they don't look that much alike now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u55	Don't go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u56	No, I won't do that to you, but still. Mr. Wilders, you want out of the European Union. That's what you think is good for the Dutch. That is what you think is good for Dutch farmers, for example. But you do not then tell the Dutch farmers that leaving the European Union means that all agricultural subsidies will disappear. You may criticize my party for wanting to do something about the livestock, but you do not tell them that you want to decimate the livestock. So when we talk about honesty and acceptance, yes, my party honestly says that we need European resources, for example, to ensure that the Dutch do not pay very much for the European Union to make us safer, to make us greener. I would ask you, if you have such views, to be honest about those positions in order to get real support for them, because you do not have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u57	I bless the day when we are no longer members of the European Union. We can...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u58	That day will never come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u59	Once again, how I bless the day when we are no longer members of the European Union. We're in charge of our own money. We do not have to pay the Greeks, as Mr Rutte did. We're still waiting for the money we'd get back with interest. We don't have to pay the Italians and the French. We can spend our own money on our own country. What a blessed day, because we are talking about our own immigration policy. We can decide who enters our country and not. We're dealing with our own budget. We're gonna go over our court hearing. We no longer need to transfer powers to the European Union. Of course, we can work very well with those countries. I am not in favour of not cooperating with those countries, but I am against a political union. What your party is aiming at is what I hear your new leader, Mrs Kaag, say: we need to transfer more sovereignty. She just wants to abolish the Netherlands. What your party wants is for us to give away our sovereignty. A country cannot exist if it is not sovereign, with its own flag, its own law, its own front door that you own who comes in or not, its own wallet. You want to abolish all of this so that we are instantly a kind of province in that superstate of the European Union. That's what you want. You simply abolish the Netherlands! There is nothing worse for the Netherlands than if the Netherlands no longer exists. And the worst part is you're gonna win it. You're gonna win, because you've totally got the Prime Minister on your leash. You got him on his knees. It's gonna happen. That is why I say, over your head, that the people who do not want to have a choice in March. That is: not to vote for your party, not even to vote for the man without a spine, but simply to vote for parties that want to keep the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u60	I will outline what Mr Wilders' Netherlands is going to mean: the port worker in Rotterdam is losing his job, the company of the logistics employee in Venlo is going bankrupt because of the border controls and the industry is disappearing from the Netherlands, as it also disappears from the United Kingdom. I'll outline to you what it means to the incomes of people who need the money hard enough to get around every month, hard. You say we must be sovereign. But I'm telling you, you can also be completely sovereign on an uninhabited island, but that doesn't mean you have enough to eat, that doesn't mean you have a beautiful life, that doesn't mean you're safe. That is what the European Union is, Mr Wilders. So yes, my political forewife, Mrs Kaag, wants the European Union to be strong, to keep us safe, to get us greener, to keep our economy alive. That's what she wants, that's what my party wants, and that's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u62	And that's in the interest of the Netherlands, Mr. Wilders. That's in our own best interest. That you cannot see that, but I say to you: look at your friends in the United Kingdom how they like it, because it does not please the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u63	Another point, if you don't mind, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u64	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr Sjoerdsma and I both hate what happened on Lesbos. He has spoken about this and I have spoken about it. He also said that what the Dutch Government has done so far is good. There's been a quick response, but it's not enough. I have asked the Prime Minister whether it is not even time to do what is a huge support in Dutch society, namely to include in the Netherlands some of the most vulnerable people in that group, who had to flee again last night. The Secretary of State said at 7.30 p.m. in the RTL-journaal: I am not going to do that; Dutch policy is not going to change. It shall also speak on behalf of the D66 executives. I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma what he actually thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u66	That's a good question. Let me start with what I just said: Lesbos is a huge disgrace to the European Union and to all of us. It is a terrible tragedy that this happens to the most vulnerable people who have been there for many years. If you ask me what should happen, I would say two things. In the very short term, these people need something of help to get through the nights. The cabinet has now offered something for this, and I hope that other Member States and the Greeks themselves will take care of it. In addition, however, I would say that all the vulnerable - I think Mr Van Ojik is right in saying so - must leave these islands, either to the Greek mainland or to the European continent. You're asking about the Secretary of State. I've also seen a video of the CDA's colleagues. That just came online. Mrs Van Toorenburg herself says quite literally that all vulnerable people must be brought to the mainland, so let us wait for tomorrow's debate on the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u67	That's exactly my point. Let us wait and see what the Prime Minister is going to say about this tonight. My point is that the Secretary of State responsible has already said that she does not intend to draw the conclusion from this that Dutch policy must change in the direction that Mr Sjoerdsma and I would like. I'll ask him how he feels about that. Did she speak in turn? Is she gonna have to settle with D66? Or should we conclude tomorrow at the end of the day that we are providing humanitarian aid and that we want to support reception on mainland Greece, but that we do not want to include vulnerable children in the Netherlands, as has always been the policy of the Dutch cabinet? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u68	I think I was just really clear about that. The most vulnerable on these islands must go to the mainland or to the European continent. That must be done as quickly as possible, because the situation there is simply no longer sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u69	Unlike a number of other political parties, DENK sees the importance of the European Union and sometimes also the importance of economic cooperation. It intrigued me that Mr Sjoerdsma just in a debate between Mr Wilders and himself indicated that it had bad consequences for the port employee in Rotterdam and for the logistics employee in Venlo. They could be out of work. But how would Mr Sjoerdsma explain to healthcare workers throughout the country that care workers in France will receive a structural wage increase, but not the people in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u70	I would like to say two things about this. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Kuzu whether he supports the purpose and the instrument of this recovery fund. Does he see that this is meant to bring the southern economies and our economies through this corona crisis? Does he see that this is about joint jobs and our income, and that this is the goal of the corona package? Then Mr Kuzu will be able to bring in measures taken by other countries, but I think that other parties, and probably also the Prime Minister himself, will be dragging in reforms that these countries will have to implement. They are not waiting for this, but they will now be forced to do so thanks to the negotiations here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u71	First of all, that is not an answer to the question I have asked. The question was: how are you going to explain this to the care staff in the country? In his second attempt, he can go into that again as far as I am concerned. But it is true that the Prime Minister also spoke of an emergency brake during the previous debate. That emergency brake's expired right now. According to a statement by the European Commission, which was at least discussed in the press briefing..... the joint Member States and each individual Member State have three months to stretch, and then it continues. Let's take an example. Greece is one of those countries that, according to the recovery fund, will receive billions of aid. DENK also welcomes the fact that countries such as Greece, Italy and France receive funds from such a recovery fund, but they must be used for the purposes for which they are necessary. How does Mr Sjoerdsma look at the fact that last week Greece made EUR 34 billion available for defence expenditure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u72	Again. It is good that Mr Kuzu indicates that, unlike other parties in this House of Representatives, he does support the recovery fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u73	Provided that the resources are used for the purpose for which they are intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u74	Yeah, exactly. And that is where I think Mr Kuzu and I can find each other. Of course, they must be used for the purposes for which they are intended. That is also why there is such a mechanism to enforce those reforms. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how hard that mechanism is if it really needs to be deployed. But that is also why there are all kinds of framework conditions as to how it should contribute to the fight against climate change and drive industry innovation. I assume that Mr Kuzu supports all the conditions contained in it, but I do not see what they have to do with Greek defence expenditure, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u75	Simple. It is true that Greece wants to spend EUR 34 billion of unused EU aid from previous packages on buying two naval ships and ten fighter planes, which they are going to buy from the French. I can imagine that D66 is not in favour of that. These are still resources from the support package last time. We are talking again about billions of euros. I cannot imagine that D66 is in favour of the future use of funds under the guise of the Corona Restoration Fund for defence expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u76	No, I'm not in favour of that either, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u78	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u79	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also begin my contribution to the horrors in Moria, to the fire that raged there last night in the refugee camp and to the people who, while they were already in terrible conditions, had to flee again. I spoke to someone today who volunteered there last August. He said that there was one toilet for 600 people, that women wouldn't dare go anywhere at night, not to the toilet or nothing, because they'd be terrified, that the smell of urine and rotten food wouldn't be hard, that 13,000 or 14,000 people would be in a place where there's actually room for 3,000 people and that children would mutilate themselves just to be taken away by doctors and so on. In that situation, which we've known for a long time, a fire broke out. And in that situation, which we have known for a long time, the Netherlands is too miserable to accommodate 500 of the most vulnerable children. That's a disgrace. I have seen that Germany has said right today: we are catching up with a number of people. That's what leadership has shown. I have seen that the Netherlands is making EUR 1 million available for emergency emergency aid. You can't buy off moral leadership. You're showing that. Is the cabinet prepared to follow Germany in that? Mr. Chairman. I come to the recovery package and the finances. The PvdA Group has been critical of the attitude of the Brussels cabinet, for reasons other than those of other parties. There's been a lot of fighting. It was provoked by walking a book about Chopin to a summit, making everyone brusque, and Minister Hoekstra, at the height of the corona crisis, struck the Italians in the face, figuratively. That has not done the Dutch good. It has not done the Dutch case any good. I would like to ask the cabinet on two substantive points on which an agreement has finally been reached whether the outcome would not have been better if the cabinet in the heart of Europe, where the Netherlands belongs to me in this corona crisis now that the economy is in danger of falling apart, had taken place in the heart of the discussion, had turned the discussion for the better instead of throwing the butt against the crib and finally came to Parliament with a coronar rescue fund. The first of these two points is the rule of law. We saw the leaders of Hungary, as well as those of Poland, as champions of the consultation. The state of law test has become extremely soft. In countries where the values of the European Union, such as free media and free rights for homosexuals, lesbians and other libti's and for judges to speak independently, are under pressure, you must be firm on that. Wouldn't it have been much better to bet harder on that? Mr. Chairman. The second point is the distribution of content. After all, it has become a bit of a budget, a multi-annual budget, covering seven years of the old economy, with too much agriculture and too little science and innovation. Wouldn't it have been much better to say no to a fund as long as possible? Moreover, it is wise that it should be possible to turn the division much more in the direction of science, of the future and of the green and sustainable economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u81	Thank you. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr President, thank you for the floor. What a special display that was, that last EU summit. Prior to that, the various countries were opposed to each other and blamed over and over again. Then they went into conclave for four days. They came out and everyone agreed. And, what was even more fun, everyone had gotten pretty much what he'd been working for. Beautiful. But whoever believes it, whoever really believes it, may now raise their hands. I don't see any hand, so the signal's clear. The reality is, of course, completely different. The Prime Minister did well, was much to be heard after the summit. And, of course, we can also see that he has done an excellent job. But we also see that, under the line, it just looks bad for the Netherlands. Let's be honest. The EU is increasingly moving towards a transfer union as a result of this agreement. And we saddle future generations with a huge debt mountain. I am not talking about the ECB's money press, which is pumping hundreds of billions into the economy, which will end. The recovery fund is temporary, but the loans run until 2058. 2058! That's 40 years! My question to the Prime Minister is: how much will the Netherlands have to pay extra from 2028 a year to pay off this huge joint debt mountain? And then it's about interest and redemption. I would like the undertaking that a concrete calculation of this will be sent to the Court, broken down on an annual basis. The fact that our payments are going to rise is certain. The European budget has been raised. How does the Prime Minister reconcile that with the Bishop/Leijten motion, which was adopted, which states that the budget should remain at the most equal and certainly not increase? Mr. Chairman. Last year a motion was adopted to delete the phrase 'an ever closer union' from the Union Treaties. My question to the Prime Minister is: what have you done in the meantime in concrete terms to carry out this Chamber ruling? I am telling you quite frankly that the facts show that the EU is drawing more and more powers towards itself. In the meantime, we have joint debts; that would not happen. We are going to transfer even more taxes directly to the EU, such as the new plastic tax; that would not happen. And there are more integration plans on the EU agenda. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my final point: the EU is in crisis, not only because of corona, but also because of the lack of confidence in the EU among many Dutch people, as the SCP underlined by Mr Putters last Monday. If one can give a report figure on a scale of 1 to 10, then the EU scores a 4 in confidence. Then you failed. We should take care of that. This is about the huge bureaucracy, a high undemocratic level of the EU and the reflex in Brussels, and in recent years it has been repeated by a majority in politics in The Hague, towards ever more EU. My question to the Prime Minister is: is it not time for a thorough rethink of the EU? Does the Prime Minister also see that the EU, if it continues on the current track, is simply not sustainable in the long term? What tools does the Prime Minister see for the Netherlands to distance itself more from the centralising forces in the EU? Mr. Chairman. I realize that for some such questions sound almost like heresy or that there is a label with 'populist' or 'naïve' on it. I'm just calling it sensible and realistic. We need the EU. That's what I agree with. Getting out, a nexit, is not the solution, because that also has major disadvantages. You need another EU. The EU could use that realism. I would like to call on colleagues to go for that together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u83	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mr Baudet has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u84	I was wondering what it felt like to be more and more right, to have to find out every year, every time, that there was someone who predicted this was going to happen ten years ago. How does it feel to have to think: at that time I disagreed with him, but he really got right? How does that feel?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u85	I never find it so difficult to acknowledge generously that someone is right when I see that someone is right, but I may have to disappoint Mr Baudet a little. To be honest, I do not really often deal with the question of whether Mr Baudet was right or not. I never really ask myself that question. So I don't know if you're right or not. What we do do from the SGP is think about the option of a nexit. We have looked at this in detail. Of course, we are also looking at further integration. We see that both roads are dead ends. That's why we're thinking about how to do it. If you do not want geopolitically to be maneuvered as Europe or as the Netherlands, you will have to find a form of cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u87	And it has to be sustainable. We go more for our own equal, I'll say. I could send you that note on our vision of the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u88	That's a promise. Thank you, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u89	If that's okay. The Prime Minister already has it, but he needs to read it again. Maybe I should file another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u90	Okay. You're gonna check him out next time. That's good. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr. Chairman. Last week, Klaas Knot said in the Schoo lecture that the gap between strong and weak countries in the euro area will only increase. The idea that euro-zone countries are growing towards each other has now been rejected. Maintaining the euro makes divergence inevitable, and according to Knot this requires either permanent transfers from north to south or convergence from above through further European integration. Both views, which have just been exchanged, are not popular. And the recovery fund makes the dilemma topical. It shows why both the creation of the recovery fund and the resistance to it are justified. Unfortunately, Knot's reading is more like a problem analysis than a solution strategy. We are on a journey together where we can't go back without isolating ourselves, but where we also don't have any clarity as to what the destination is. How does the Prime Minister view this debate and the direction Europe is taking with this recovery fund? The government agreement rightly speaks of the importance of reforms in support programmes and the undesirableness of a debt community and a transfer union. How does the Prime Minister see the creation of this recovery fund? Is this or is it not a further step towards this transfer union? It also affects debt financing, because for the first time, the European Commission itself is in massive debt. Surely a 38-year debt mountain of its own has at least the appearance of a form of debt-sharing? The Prime Minister knows our red line. Where is he with this recovery fund compared to that red line? Of course, all these loans also have to be paid back. The multiannual budget is far too small to provide for this, despite the staggering size, and that is why the idea of new taxes is being used in the Commission. I don't need to explain to anyone how sensitive that is, including to us. Has this approach become part of the European financial instruments? With all the good will of the world, it is becoming more and more difficult to see this as a temporary remedy. Mr. Chairman. At the last moment, the Prime Minister left an important part of the negotiations: the budget of the European research and innovation programme Horizon Europe. Does the Prime Minister also see that despite fine words, the Dutch innovation ambitions are getting quite a bit of a pinch with this? I am particularly concerned about Pillar 2 for industrial competitiveness. More than half of the Horizon funding received by Dutch participants comes from Pillar 2. Three quarters of participating Dutch SMEs find their place there. A cut on Pillar 2 but also on other pillars would be disastrous at this time. Will he, together with the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, fight to ensure that the distribution between the pillars is optimal for the Netherlands and will he make the most of his efforts to extend Horizon Europe financially? Mr. Chairman. Finally, two questions on the conditions surrounding the recovery fund. It is good that countries that want to use the funds should reform in the areas of pensions, labour market and taxation. But Europe has really missed opportunities in the field of the rule of law. These conditions do not go far enough and call for continued vigilance for the Union as a value community. How's the mp looking at this? What reforms are needed for the Netherlands to get a fair share out of this European runaway? Our country has also been affected by the corona virus and not even so much less than France, for example. On 30 April, each Member State will have to submit its investment and reform recovery plan to benefit from this European pot. How far is the Prime Minister prepared to go and how does he prevent us from missing the boat as the Netherlands due to an upcoming missionary period of his third cabinet? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Mr Van Raan has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Mr President. A debate on the European recovery fund or on European solidarity cannot, in our view, be conducted without attention being paid to the dramatic situation and events in the Greek Moria. It would be a great decadence if we were to discuss aid packages together if we did not give any support to the weakest people who are now in an acute emergency. That is why I would like to ask whether this government is still prepared to take up at least 500 refugee children and actively contribute to a humane and structural solution for the remaining nearly 13,000 refugees, in order to genuinely shape our solidarity. Mr. Chairman. It is also a question of saying here that you are sovereign and reducing that same sovereignty in Brussels. Last week, the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, Klaas Knot, and the new political leader of D66 clearly indicated that the Netherlands should give up part of our national sovereignty in the context of a more effective Brussels. The Prime Minister seems to be responding to them in advance. He presents the loss of sovereign decision-making power as a profit in the negotiations and thus actually shows himself to be an illusionist of the calibre "buying now is earning money." Mr. Chairman. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, we had first used the funds in the common agricultural policy for this corona package. We should have used the billions for climate-destructive subsidies to the bio-industry for corona support. The Prime Minister said that he agreed with us, but that he really couldn't. So days were negotiated on an outcome that might have been established a long time ago, namely more Brussels. The Prime Minister claims that he would have managed in Brussels not to pay 500 billion euros but only 390 billion euros from the Corona Restoration Fund for grants that the recipient countries do not have to pay back. He did not tell us that this was partly due to cuts in sustainability and science from existing budgets and, in addition, to a huge debt mountain for future generations. That sounds a lot like ball-ball, in which people's representatives are allowed to puzzle to find out where the millions have actually moved to. Mr. Chairman. In addition, the Prime Minister claimed to have built in an emergency brake; a special procedure to stop the granting of subsidies if countries fail to reform or break their rule of law. This is how the emergency braking procedure came out of the bus: in the future we will really improve our lives, and otherwise... That's not an emergency brake. It's a mirage. So the Prime Minister should have gone back to Parliament to submit the proposal. The surrender of a piece of sovereignty, and I quote once again Klaas Knot and Minister Kaag............................................................................................................................................................................................. It can and will not take care of the Party for the Animals. We are very much in favour of international solidarity and European cooperation, but we are a stated opponent of cow trafficking and other forms of hand-shake that have won it in this agreement of sustainability and genuine solidarity, without real participation by our own parliament. This is indigestible and runs counter to the solidarity and sustainable renewal that we believe should be used. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish what I started. Is this government prepared to grant asylum to 500 refugee children in our country in order to alleviate the need, and to give real shape to our international solidarity through structural solutions for the nearly 13,000 other refugees in Lesbos? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u95	I should like to mention the head of my colleague from the Animal Party, because every colleague has spoken about this. I would like to point out the following. As bad as it all is, according to the Greek Prime Minister, migrants themselves would have set the fire on Lesbos. I wasn't there myself, but the migrants who, according to the Prime Minister, set the fire would have hindered the fire department from putting out. That's what the ANP's reporting now. Of anyone who sheds tears here, it would be so fair to tell the whole truth. That is according to the Prime Minister of Greece that, of course, not every asylum seeker, but asylum seekers themselves set the fire and prevented the firefighters from extinguishing. Tell that to me and keep an honest story. That puts it in a completely different context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u96	This shows a nasty, miserable attitude on the part of Mr Wilders. We don't even know what happened yet. And even if it were, could it not, I would ask Mr Wilders, that this behavior is caused by desperation, in the situation in which people are living, because Europe is failing in good care? I think it's a sick insinuation, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u97	This is unbelievable! There is a Member of Parliament who understands the burning of facilities and the obstruction of the fire department, and wonders whether this would not be due to desperation. So if you're desperate, you can light something on fire that can kill people. 'Cause that's what happens when you set something like that on fire. Then you may hinder the fire department people who practice their profession to help, that's just helpers. If this happens in the Netherlands, the world is too small and we are all right to call for stricter sanctions, stricter sanctions! And then it happens in Greece, then the people themselves set it on fire and make sure that the fire department can't come, and then you say you have every sympathy for it. Are you going to lecture me now? You're not worth a snipe yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. Beautiful charade by Mr. Wilders. I didn't say that. I merely asked Mr Wilders to think about this before he made such accusations. I really have nothing else to add to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u99	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. The cooperation in Europe during the crisis means that Germans helped us to absorb ICU patients when we had no more ICU beds, and that we, as the European Union today, are buying the sixth vaccine together, to see how we can get out of this corona crisis as quickly as possible. European solidarity is now in motion. There is therefore a package in the event of an exceptional circumstance. With my colleagues, I think it is very important to see whether the conditions are sufficient to agree and whether the package is going to do what it is intended to do, namely to get out of the cisis together. I agree with a number of questions that have been asked, but I would like to focus on the emergency braking procedure. Is this really an emergency braking procedure? So can the Netherlands really block if another country does not reform? Or is it just a pause button? So three months stop, and then the country in question gets its money. In other words, what happens to the Commission? I have two very specific questions about this. Mr President, forgive me for being so technical. Is the Commission going to refer it back through commitology? This means that a majority decision is formally possible, because then the break will end after three months. How should we take the legal advice of the European Council's advisers? They are writing about the text of paragraph A19 "That happens to be the paragraph on the emergency brake that the European Commission always has the opportunity to spend money on the basis of Article 3.17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 17.1 of the Treaty on European Union. Is that going over this emergency brake now? And since when has the government been aware of this legal advice, which it says in a footnote that it has agreed to? I also have a few questions about the final text. How is the Court's budget law secured? And how are we going to deal with it when a country, Italy or France, presents a recovery package, of which we have already seen the first EUR 100 billion, in which the conditions are not met? Can the Prime Minister give us any idea how that's gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u101	I appreciate Mr Omtzigt's knowledge. He's very good at this matter. But do I understand his words correctly when I say that it is not an emergency brake at all, but a kind of pause button?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u102	That is the question I asked the government. I am very pleased that Mr Krol congratulates me on my knowledge, but this is just the legal advice that is in the text via a link. It was a legal opinion of two paragraphs, and that was something to be done. I note, however, that the previous ten speakers have not really referred to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u103	Well, Mr. Krol! Carry on, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr President, that legal advice has really been sent to the Chamber twice. I can say a lot about it, but... We are talking today about a six-page letter from the government, and then I think it would be best to prepare it. You could have read the two pages of answers to my questions in the Chamber, and I think that I am the only one who would have been able to read about such questions. You would have had eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Baudet, I see you standing, but you weren't there at the beginning. That's why I thought you didn't sign up, but you did, didn't you? We have actually agreed to ask a maximum of four questions, and you have already asked five questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u106	I have put one question to Mr Sjoerdsma and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u107	No one hears what you're saying, Mr. Baudet. It's really gonna be your last question, because I know how it goes. The MPs keep track of it all and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr Baudet's negotiations are similar to those in the European Union. He's doing the exact same thing!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u109	You, too, are negotiating interruptions. So as far as that goes... Mr Baudet's last question!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u110	Okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u111	The questions that Mr Omtzigt is asking are actually about who ultimately has the power to decide how that fund is spent and where the money is. In fact, this is also about the question of who will be responsible for these debts. Who's gonna make that money? These are questions that do not provide the answer that, in the last instance, the power to block or say no would still lie with the Netherlands. Does he agree with me that there is in fact a question of debt mutualisation and that his own motion of, from my mind, 7 April this year, which we have wholeheartedly supported, never to agree to debt mutualization is being violated? Will he vote against this recovery fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u112	We discussed last time what form this would take. We said: no eurobonds. At the moment there are no Eurobonds, because another instrument has been chosen, an instrument that I am not very enthusiastic about. It is a form that has been put into the budget of the European Union. I ask questions to get answers, and there's nothing weird about that. That is why I want to know exactly how this emergency braking procedure is going to work. I can assure you that in the next two years we are going to have major debates on our own reform plans, because I can tell you that we do not agree on this either. I do not know which fellow Member said it, but someone said that we have to turn in something by 30 April. That remark is therefore extremely relevant, but we will also have major debates on the plans of other countries. It seems to me to be the job of a Member of Parliament to read the government's documents and ask: what do you mean? What does it say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u113	No, Mr. Baudet! Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr Omtzigt pretends that we do not read the documents. I'm sorry about that. I would therefore like to say that I have read them and that I have read his questions and the answers to them. My conclusion is that this emergency braking procedure is not an emergency braking procedure. And because these agreements are not in accordance with the mandate with which Rutte left, I reject these agreements at all. We have heard from D66 that this was indeed not the mandate, but that it is the case that you sometimes enter into negotiations with one person and go outside with another. You want green and it turns yellow, but according to D66 it's perfectly normal that you don't discuss that with your parliament. Mr Omtzigt is immediately diving into the technique, but I would like to know from him whether I have to conclude that the CDA has accepted that we have apparently signed up for something that we did not send the Prime Minister on the road with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u115	I am waiting for the Prime Minister's explanation, not for an explanation by the D66 Group. I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't get it. But in this case, does it come out exactly what I would have wanted? Well, honesty commands that when you negotiate with 27 Member States, you don't always get exactly what you're committed to. If you don't like that, you shouldn't be part of the European Union. That's a different choice I'm making. If you had asked me if I had written the text myself, my answer would be that I had written a slightly different text. You have already seen in the first corona package that, for example, I sometimes found the distribution between the Member States somewhat strange. To give you an idea: I think it is a good thing that the final package goes a little less to Poland, but I still can't quite imagine why Poland is such a big net recipient of the corona fees, whereas I can imagine that with Italy and Spain in all honesty in this case, namely...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u116	On those very sharp and critical questions that suggest that the CDA is still very critical, the answer is still the same. Poland is still getting the same thing. So you can be critical and ask critically, but it's drawing at the cross. That's exactly what I'm objecting to. That is what I am doing on a very different level, and I shall therefore put it to Mr Omtzigt for a moment, namely that of the rule of law. We know that Mr Omtzigt has taken legal status even as a central message in the election of the list leader. He does a great deal of good work as a member of the Council of Europe when it comes to Malta. But how can it be that all those people who ask for human rights, whether it is the protesting people in Bulgaria, the journalism in Hungary or Malta or the gay movement in Poland, are all getting hit in the face by those 27 Heads of Government? They did not agree to anything when it comes to protecting the rule of law and respecting human rights. Mr Omtzigt should be deeply saddened in person about this, shouldn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u117	If Mrs Leijten asks if there is a paragraph that can be improved, my answer is that it is indeed the paragraph on the conditions governing the rule of law. The Dutch Government would have liked to make a tighter agreement on this, about unisono with the whole Chamber. There is little difference here, and that runs from D66 to the SP, although D66 appreciates this agreement something else. I'm just gonna keep doing my job. As you know, I am not only rapporteur Malta but recently also rapporteur Poland. I am not only talking about the rule of law here, but I am also going to visit. I can assure you that in Malta this can sometimes lead to something, in Poland this has so far led to nothing at all; you are not under any illusions about that. But we have to engage in this dialogue. This is not just about this, but about whether we really support the opposition in Belarus, where the elections have not been fair or not. If the European Union fails to deal with a relatively small neighbour such as Belarus in a decent way, it will never succeed with larger neighbours such as Russia or Turkey. So I very much hope that the Council will suffer a small defeat when it is due to have to take a trialogue with the European Parliament, in which a majority of the political groups has clearly indicated that they want to strengthen this rule of law as an absolute condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u118	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u119	I am personally in favour of that coming out. I think that makes a lot of sense. On Mrs Leijten's other point: yes, I still think that Poland is getting too much in the deal before this, but it is a lot less than in the deal before we entered that weekend. Is the glass half full or half empty? You can appreciate that. As far as I am concerned, these funds are indeed conditional on the rule of law. The rule of law isn't just... This really is the answer to Mrs Leijten, Mr President! The rule of law is not only those homosexual rights in Poland, but also the far-reaching corruption in a number of other countries. It's just as undermining the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u120	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr. Chairman. In the coming months there will be tough negotiations on major fundamental questions about European regulation. I have a question about that. The European budgetary commitments are dead, the Stability and Growth Pact is no longer there, and the European Central Bank now has a balance sheet total of 61% of the euro area's gross domestic product. That is more than those countries should be in debt under the old pact. This is a course that cannot be maintained. Is the government prepared to ask a committee of wise men and women to identify how European financial and monetary policy can be standardised in the short term, so that we can also reduce all the problems we are building, within the limits of the coalition agreement? Unorthodox options, such as opt-out, can also be addressed. Mr. Chairman. I agree with colleagues who ask how the Netherlands can get a fair share of the things that are in it, for example about the Brexit money. We'll be back on the Brexit soon, but there's still a big problem with the way it's stuck right now. Does what Great Britain is doing now mean that we can make a trade agreement at all, I ask the Prime Minister. Are we going to conclude another trade agreement if Britain is going to blow up the agreement we have on exit? Finally, Mr President. I forgot because I'm going through my lines a little bit. In the previous round we agreed that we would introduce the so-called single-limb CACs. These are sovereign debts which, if there is a debt restructuring, also have a partial write-off at one time, without small minorities wanting to do so, a so-called haircut. This is one of the examples of a European agreement that has not yet been implemented. Does this government ensure that this is included in the agreements that the countries will have to comply with if it is to be implemented again? Because if debt is to be written off, it must be done in an orderly manner. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. In July, Prime Minister Rutte and other EU leaders agreed to transfer billions of euros to countries in trouble due to the corona crisis. There is great confusion as to what the Prime Minister has actually agreed on on behalf of the Netherlands, in particular as to what should happen if certain countries fail to implement the promised reforms. According to the Prime Minister, there would be some kind of emergency brake to block the provision of funds from the fund. However, the European Commission gave a very different reading: the Member States could only slow down the flow of money for a little while, namely three months, but could not stop. My question is, which lecture is true? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister also said there will be no gifts. But there will be gifts and not just about EUR 390 billion. According to the Prime Minister, there would never be corona bonds. But there will still be joint European loans. So the key question to the Prime Minister is: does the final outcome of the negotiations still resemble what has been agreed here in the Chamber and what has been promised to the Dutch? How do we ensure that agreed reforms actually take place? Mr. Chairman. DENK is not opposed to providing support to countries that need it. As long as that support is used for people's needs, it's fine. DENK, however, cannot accept the fact that European support money, including Dutch taxpayers' money, is used for very different things. Let me give you a random example: Greece. Greece receives billions of euros of support from the European Union. Billions of euros guaranteed by the Dutch taxpayer. Then you would think that Greece uses those billions to fight unemployment, or to help people who are sick by corona, or for the burnt down refugee camps on the island of Lesbos, the people in Moria. But what surprises us: Greece is already going to use EUR 34 billion of previous EU aid to buy two warships from France for EUR 2 billion and ten French warplanes for billions of euros as well. My question to the government is this cannot be done. The Greeks use aid designed to eliminate the economy, to support the Greek population, to buy arms and wage war. For example, hard-earned money from Dutch people is being used by Greece to fight an age-old neighborly quarrel with Turkey, partly financed by Henk and Ingrid and Ahmed and Fatima. I think that few Dutch people would like to present French warships and French warplanes to the Greeks. As far as we are concerned, Prime Minister Rutte must address this at the next EU summit. The use of European aid and Dutch taxpayers' money must be subject to strict conditions. Mr President, we are not Santa Claus. Finally. In the refugee camp Moria on the Greek island of Lesbos, refugees have been living under terrible conditions for a long time. Refugees on the Greek islands suffer from overcrowding, corona and since last night in camp Moria also a terrible fire. Thousands of refugees have fled, victims have fallen, and the suffering is inconceivable. These refugees no longer have a place to stay. The Greeks are in the middle of a small war with European money. DENK therefore appeals to this Prime Minister: bring refugees from Moria camp to the Netherlands to offer them security and stability. Now we have to show humanity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u125	Just one comment. We are opposed to this European fund and money. We don't want a penny to be spent at all. But if it is then spent by the Greeks and they build some ships against the Turks, then I would just like to say: homage to the Greeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u126	Congratulations, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u127	Thank you. I chaired a debate on sign language yesterday. That went very quietly. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u128	2 trillion EUR 523 billion. A staggering amount that is completely beyond our imagination. This astronomical amount will be redistributed within the European Union in the coming years. Count it. After the first package of EUR 540 billion in April, Rutte also agreed to a second fund of EUR 750 billion last summer. On top of the Multiannual Financial Framework of 1.233 billion, this makes more than 2 500 billion. A huge transfer in hard-earned euros from north to south and this led by Merkel under the approval of Macron, with the enjoyment of all South European politicians and others and with the look away from Rutte. Mark Rutte was standing by when this disastrous idea was conjured up. He played in the Netherlands that he would not go along with that, but almost while everyone was finally on vacation he signed. Insofar as this madness is presented to us as a'restoration fund', it is pure manipulation, intended to mislead us about the real nature of this billion-dollar transfer. Because recovery has nothing to do with it. Most of the money is distributed on the basis of unemployment rates from 2015 to 2019, population size in 2019 and gross national product in 2019, all of which are factors of the corona situation that have nothing to do with the corona situation. But the most worrying thing about these plans is that, for the first time in its existence, the European Union has the right to borrow its own money on the capital market. That is why Eurobonds have become a reality. Government bonds of the federal state in Brussels, the United States of Europe, which people have always wanted, which politicians have always said: no, none of that happens, don't worry; it doesn't happen. It just happens. It happens: EU, open borders, one currency and now the pretext of this shock of corona to finally move on. We have seen in former Yugoslavia what can happen if you try to make one country, one nation, from different peoples with different cultures along this road. There too, in the 1980s, they wanted to mutate the debts of Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia. That was one of the factors contributing to such a violent explosion in the 1990s. That's why I've been warning you for ten years: you guys, just admit that it's not gonna work out of all those European countries to make one federal United States of Europe. It's not gonna work. It breaks up once, willingly or maliciously. So let's try to unsplit it in an orderly manner, to dismantle it, rather than to let noles fill us, willingly or unwillingly, to continue to drag us into that maelstrom to centralization: "The Netherlands pays. The Netherlands has to pay. Southern Europe is going to spend money and set the minimum wage. More salary for the care workers." They're gonna keep putting pressure on us. We're becoming more sensitive to their blackmail. Unfortunately, many people in the Netherlands are increasingly thinking: all of this must be; they are far too large amounts. We need to move. I will put forward a motion of censure in addition to or along with the motion of censure previously announced, because this is really an essential point for me. This is about sovereignty and power, which we will never be able to get back. This is what the Chamber has to vote on. I will do it together with the motion previously announced. If it doesn't come, I'll file a motion myself. This is really something we have to say no to in every possible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u130	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mrs Aukje de Vries has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the agreements that have been made on the recovery of the European economy. Since the start of the corona crisis, the VVD has indicated that we can be united, but above all we must be sensible. So we certainly do not just do contributions; tough and firm conditions are important to us. We want to contribute with the aim that, in the event of a subsequent crisis, countries themselves will be able to stop their pants, just like the Netherlands. That is exactly what Mark Rutte fought for on behalf of the Netherlands. It's a sensible input. We can only conclude that, despite great pressure, he has remained steadfast. The Dutch Prime Minister has kept the frugal four together and has won the result, in line with the Dutch commitment: not gifts of pity, but loans and subsidies, coupled with strict reform conditions. The fund is temporary and countries are not responsible for each other's debts. Mr. Chairman. Then the new Multiannual Financial Framework. The VVD welcomes the higher discount for the Netherlands. The VVD is also pleased that it places a stronger emphasis on research, innovation, tackling migration, security and climate than in the current Multiannual Financial Framework. Mr. Chairman. I've been talking about tough terms. We welcome the fact that, at the request of the Netherlands, an emergency brake has been put in place to ensure that countries keep their promises of reform. The VVD would like a more detailed explanation of how this emergency braking procedure will work in practice and how the Netherlands will deal with it. If the Netherlands wants to pull the emergency brake, it will have to do so well. How is the cabinet going to check whether countries asking for donations are sufficiently reformed? And how do we prevent the European Commission from giving its own spin to this emergency braking procedure? The VVD wants countries that receive donations to be monitored more strictly and that they actually deliver on their promises. The VVD also wants the European Commission to be closely involved in the assessment of the plans to be submitted by the countries. Can the Cabinet agree to that? Mr. Chairman. The VVD has two further questions on the future, on the rule of law mechanism and so-called own resources. First of all, the rule of law mechanism. Some of my colleagues have already spoken about this. During the summit, the Netherlands fought hard for this. When will the exact procedure be clarified? What criteria does the European Commission apply? How wide is the mechanism going to be? And does it include restricting the free media and setting up homo-free zones? What measures can be taken or imposed? The fact that this is badly needed proved last summer in Poland, where cities and villages called themselves "gay zone." What consequences does this have for Poland? That must be more than just an oral condemnation, as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the own resources. The Commission is putting forward proposals for this. Can the cabinet confirm that it is still not in favour of European taxes and is still reluctant about new own resources? Is it true that the cabinet is simply going to assess this in due course on its merits and that, when it comes to reimbursement of the recovery fund, we should also look at what is possible in terms of cuts in the EU budget itself? Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD is concerned, the recovery fund and hopefully corona are a one-off and exceptional situation. The recovery fund shall be one-off and limited in duration. For a number of Brussels urophils, a single list leader and some countries, the recovery fund tastes like more, such as joint debt-sharing and surrendering sovereignty. That's not the way the VVD sees it. My group would like to hear confirmation that this also applies to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has done a tough job and achieved a good result by negotiating firmly and firmly under great pressure, by not being afraid of loss of image, but simply by fighting for the Dutch interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u133	Last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u134	I have always learned that you should not lie and that lies for the good, especially when it comes to the European Union, are very harmful. Now the CDA says that this rule of law is not enough, and we hope that the European Parliament will take care of it for us. D66 triumphantly praises: yes, it was indeed not the mandate, hahaha, but we have it done; sharing the old agenda of debts, it's all through. How can Mrs De Vries really congratulate the Prime Minister for bringing things in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mrs. Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u136	Oh, I thought there was gonna be something else, which is why I waited nicely. There have been a number of things that we as a VVD considered important. Those were the words that we could force reforms and that there would be an emergency braking procedure. Those are things we brought in. I'm happy about that. Does that mean that we are very happy with everything? No, of course not. That is never the case, but I do believe that important issues, including the Multiannual Financial Framework, have been the subject of a small modernisation. Fine. That's a good move. Would we have wanted more there? Yeah, we'd have wanted more there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u137	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u138	We just heard...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u139	Mrs Leijten, you really asked all your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u140	We just heard that emergency braking procedure...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u141	No, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u142	It's no big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u143	We're going to see Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u144	Do not sell lies, I would say to Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u145	You already said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u146	They'll come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u148	Maybe saying "we'd have wanted a little more" is a little too easy. I think we should also use this debate to see if everything possible has been done to achieve that. Much has been looked back and said, for example, by fixing the size of the budget, you run the risk, as in 2013-2014, that the modernisation of the budget will be the child of the account at the last minute. I have said that this has now happened with migration and border surveillance. Everyone thinks it is extremely important for Europe to do more about this, but at the last minute 10 billion has been taken out of it. The Erasmus programme, the Horizon programme for scientific research, at the last minute 10 billion have been taken out of it. That's because the Netherlands wanted to pay less. Looking back, wouldn't it be good to be critical of the Dutch commitment? Has it not been too fixated on the amounts and too little on what we all wanted, namely a modernisation of the budget? Looking back also means that you don't just say "I would have wanted a little more," but also that you ask yourself the question: what could I have done better myself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u149	I do not agree with Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks. I think we are in a very different race when it comes to how much we should pay to the European Union. I think you'd like to spend a lot more money on that than we do. I think there's been a good result. There has been a bigger discount than we had and a movement has been put in place, which means that compared to the current Multiannual Financial Framework, extra money has gone to, for example, innovation, migration and security. These are all things that I believe you want, but you want to push up the ceiling of the Multiannual Financial Framework hugely. That is not something we want and I would not have wanted to look back at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u150	I do not think the question is whether Mrs De Vries agrees with me. The issue is whether, looking back at the way in which the cabinet negotiated, the way in which the VVD used this and the way in which the negotiations ended, just as I see that the focus on the size of the amount, if you pull something in, is at the expense of modernisation, which we all say: that we would like a step more. It is not a question of expressing an opinion here and asking Mrs De Vries whether she agrees with me. Something happened during those negotiations, as in 2013 and 2014. That was exactly the same thing. Isn't that supposed to teach us that next time, or as soon as possible, we should do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u151	I don't think so. I think that, as a Chamber and as different groups, we have thought very carefully about what the cabinet should be doing. There have been many debates on this subject. I think it is good that we have a strong commitment to this. I know that a number of parties here in the Lower House feel very differently about that, but we welcome that. We are glad that there has been continued and that until the last moment there has been a fight to bring in things that the Netherlands considers important. That is the reduction, but these are also the reforms and the emergency braking procedure, for example. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u152	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u153	It's like Mrs. De Vries is living in a parallel world or Mr. Rutte has promised her a high place on the list if she's gonna talk nonsense here. I don't know, but to say now as a VVDer that the Prime Minister has brought in a lot... How do you get it out of your mouth, Mrs. De Vries? How do you do it? The VVD has surrendered in all possible ways. The VVD has ensured that joint debt is bought, that joint debt is incurred, that the European Commission is given more powers and that there is perhaps the worst; I think that is historic, that this has never happened at a European summit of EUR 1,800 billion, of which 6% from the Netherlands. By your Prime Minister! He's the biggest europhile here in the House of Representatives right now. He was just embraced by the colleague of D66, who spent four minutes kissing his shoes and said how wonderful he did it all. There he is. He complimented the Prime Minister for four minutes. 100 billion euros of Dutch money has been given away! We could have spent it here. Where did he get a win? What world do you live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u154	What we think is important as a VVD, and I am glad that the Prime Minister has also fought for this, are jobs for the Dutch. The same goes for your own Henk and Ingrid, as far as I'm concerned. We are going to invest in a support package for our own entrepreneurs so that we can keep the jobs for the people in this country. We want the economy to grow here in the Netherlands, but also in Europe. Because that benefits us as the Netherlands. I'm definitely not on the same line as D66. Absolutely not. They have said in advance: we want Eurobonds and a European Minister for Finance. What else did they report? None of that happened. I'm glad. I am glad that we are going to get these reforms done so that those countries can stop their own pants again in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u155	Thank you, Mrs Aukje de Vries. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. Suspend for half an hour? Then I'll suspend for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u156	I propose to ask a maximum of five questions in the government's first term. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister. He's keeping track.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u157	Good. Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd do it this way: I'll answer some questions about the MFF first, then questions about the recovery fund and then other questions. So I'll do it in three sets, if you don't mind. Also because of the time I think I refrain from great introductory reflections. They're already in the Cabinet Juice Appreciation. I agree with those who have pointed out the geopolitical situation, which calls for a stable European Union, and the seriousness of the economic crisis, which also affects countries in the European Union, not always to the same degree, although of course everyone has been hit violently; one has been hit more violently than the other. That also makes it possible, I believe, to support the fact that aid is now being given once in a subsidy sense, but in exchange for reforms. That is, in short, what is in front of us. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the MFK. In the direction of Mr Bishop I say: I think his motion has been carried out. Compared to the current MFF, the level of the commitment ceiling falls by about 2% in real terms, i.e. by 20 billion. Then it has been corrected for the United Kingdom and the inclusion of the European Development Fund, which used to be outside the MFF and is now in the MFF. So that's a drop. At the same time, of course, the Dutch share remains the same, adjusted for inflation and economic growth. What is important is that the instrument of rebates, of discounts, has survived. Then perhaps I should say something in the direction of Mrs De Vries van de VVD, because I saw a few things about that in the media, in various newspapers and other expressions. The government's position on European taxation is unchanged. We are not in favour of this. We are not obliged to do anything. As far as own resources are concerned, our position is also unchanged. They must be transparent, simple and predictable. You can see that in this proposal, for example, with that plastic. That is not a tax, it is a means of its own. That's another basis. It is financially beneficial for the Netherlands; that is why we are in favour of it. We were also prepared to do something at one other point which was financially beneficial, but that blocked other countries. We have agreed that the Commission will come forward with proposals in this area, but there is no obligation and all countries retain the power to stop them. I thought it would be a good idea to make that clear right at the beginning. Dan Horizon Europe. This increases by about 22% or 15 billion compared to the current situation. I would have liked more. If the question was raised in the context of the modernisation of the common agricultural policy, which comes under pressure, for example in the context of the debate in the European Parliament or otherwise, that would be fine, but not, of course, with an increase in total expenditure. But if there is more money to Horizon within the distribution of expenditure: fine. The program is now expanding. Excellence and impact on selection criteria shall be considered. It will thus increase by a total of 15 billion tonnes, i.e. 22% tonnes. This also applies to other posts. Migration and border management are increasing, as are security and defence. Climate is getting a very strong impulse. Of course, we would have liked more on all these points; I agree with that. But it is not so that nothing happens there; on the contrary, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u158	I won't say I miss the Prime Minister's introductions, but it's a bit harsh. It now seems to be a very technical debate at once, with percentages and I know what complicated English words. But what happened? Maybe we can go back and get a little bit above all the exact numbers and I'll know what to do. What happened now? What happened is historic. As Prime Minister of the VVD, you are Prime Minister of the Cabinet, but leader of the VVD, signed for a historic transfer of money to Southern and Eastern Europe. You have signed that 1 800 billion will be transferred, of which 1,073 billion will go to the budget and the rest will go to gifts and loans to countries that are often richer than we do, which in any case do not need the money more than we do. Where our people don't get a penny, not a piece of serious purchasing power improvement, you gave away that money. So don't start with the technique; first, go out with the buttocks and first, explain why you've done all that crazy. It's historic what happened. You have to answer for that first, here in Parliament, before you get into the details.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u159	I thought I would do that with my brief introduction and I was going to say a little more about it in the next heading, the recovery fund. However, Mr Wilders challenged this: I have heard that we are now getting Eurobonds, I have heard that we have additional transfer of budgetary powers and I have heard that there will be debt mutualisation, and that is not true. None of that is true. What we have said, in the context of a very serious European economic crisis in which a number of countries already have very high debt levels, is that we are prepared to help once, including with subsidies, in exchange for reforms. What are your two fastest routes to economic recovery? These are investments combined with reforms. So these countries can now invest in exchange for reforms. That is the basic deal that has been made and I find it very in the Dutch interest. It is also in our interest that the imbalance in the euro area and in the European Union should not worsen further. It needs to improve. And the basic promise behind the euro, and behind the European Union, that you grow together towards a higher level of prosperity and competitiveness, must be restored. This is a means of doing so in a serious crisis. That is very, very in the Dutch interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u160	What an incredibly weird story. This Prime Minister said a few months and even a few weeks before the summit that he didn't want gifts. He didn't see anything in that. You can call it subsidies now, but it's just the same thing. You didn't see anything in gifts. VVD Prime Minister Rutte didn't want gifts. That was not in the Dutch interest. I think I've seen interviews with you from the Financial Times to One Today. Everywhere you gave the message: no gifts! And what's the result? How can people trust you as far as they still trusted you? How can they trust you to take your word for it? The people now see that the man who says 'no gifts', Italy gives 85 billion, Spain gives 71 billion and France gives 50 billion, that he gives 47 billion to a country like Germany, the richest country in Europe, that he gives Poland 27 billion, that he gives the Greeks a small 20 billion, that he gives Portugal 13 billion and goes on! That's what you didn't want, and that's our money. We stand there for 40 billion, 6% of the total. And you promised the voters that you wouldn't! I stand by it: how can you sell these interests of the Netherlands so cheaply? How can you expect Dutch people to still trust you and the VVD when you say "I don't want gifts" but give about half our treasury to Southern Europe, while Dutch people can't pay their rent anymore.We've had oral Question Time this week and can't pay their energy bills anymore, and their own risk in the care is theirs. People are just in trouble and they see a Prime Minister lying and saying "we're not giving it," but they do, and they give away billions of our budget. How can you do that? Why did you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u161	I said in the last debate before the European Council that we prefer loans and that we can only talk about grants and subsidies in exchange for very strict reforms. That is also what the discussions have been about, i.e. both the loan part and the reform part. And the reform part was about the fact that, in addition to investing from subsidies in their economies, countries actually commit themselves to implementing lagging reforms, which they should have done before. The discussions in the European Council have also been very intense about this. That is good, and it must be done. In this way, I believe that, in a serious crisis, you will not only help with loans, which, of course, always have the disadvantage of contributing to a high level of debt from these countries, but also with a subsidy instrument in exchange for reforms, will ensure that those countries are also able to make the necessary investments. But it is in exchange for reforms. I think that is a good package, which is also very much in the Dutch interest. We have no interest in further weakening these countries, which are of great importance for the stability of the Union as a whole, but also economically for us as an exporting country. A good balance has therefore been found, which I consider to be highly justifiable and which has also been discussed here in the debate before the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u162	Indeed, a few days before the European Council in mid-July, when you saw the mood, you said so. But all those weeks and months before, you were just against it. Don't jiggle around here again. You were against donations for months and weeks before that debate. And it was only during the debate in the Chamber that you saw "honey, I may have gambled wrongly because Merkel and Macron are dealing with it; they are going to go with the gifts" that you chose for your money and made a slight twist. But you were always against it! And it didn't go very well in the European Council either, because in the end, as always and as with Greece, you just signed off on the cross. Mark's big knist just signed off on the cross. He signed those checks. I wish you would have said, "No, we're not doing it. I'm Mark Rutte. I have always said to the Dutch people and the voters that we do not go along with gifts or subsidies." But you did it anyway. The Dutch blame you for that, Mr. Rutte. They would have wanted you to put that money here in our own society. Surely it cannot be that in the crisis the Dutch often have to bite on a stick and do not know how to get around, and you are going to bake the people in the care in Spain and France? Surely it is not possible for you to co-finance the VAT reduction in Spain and in Italy to increase the AOW age? Do that for our people. This people will not forgive you and you will notice next March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u163	In any case, I am pleased that Mr Wilders acknowledges that this was just discussed here in the debate on the European Council before the last European Council. Furthermore, this is perhaps a very fundamental difference of opinion on the importance of the European Union for the Netherlands. Yes, the EU is important because we have a common currency that has brought much to the Netherlands and it is important for our exports, our trade. I say to Mr Wilders that the EU is also important because of the increasing instability in the world. We are currently seeing big power blocks like America and China working together to fight the battle. In addition, there is a threat of disconnecting these blocks from each other. Sjoerdsma said earlier today: Europe should not be a playing field, but a player. This can only be done if Europe is stable. If, in Europe, the major instability and differences between countries that already exist were to increase further from this crisis, then that would have been far-reaching. I believe that there is a package here that strikes a good balance between reform and investment. I think that it is very justifiable and I have also discussed it here in the debate before the European Council. I think that the Netherlands agrees with me that it is in the interest of the Netherlands to have a stable European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u164	The importance of stability is, of course, undeniable; this is also in the interest of the Dutch people. I won't argue about that at all. The Prime Minister and I absolutely agree on that. The point is that it is important to ensure this in the future and to ensure that there is support for the Dutch population. That is why I would like to cite the example of the care staff. This shows that in France there is a huge allowance, a structural reward, on the wages of the care staff, but that this lags behind in the Netherlands. There is a bonus that still has to be paid out, a promise for a bonus for next year which has to be paid out. What is the Prime Minister's story towards the care staff to maintain that support?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u165	This will get us very far away from the subject of tonight, but as always I would like to serve Mr Kuzu. Dutch healthcare salaries are about 18% above the Dutch average salary. Can you get those up any further? Should they go further up? I also think that this should be possible and that it could be sensible, but that calls for a balance to be struck. You can't just do that with impunity, because it's a huge cost. The only way to do this is to raise taxes at the same time. I don't think anyone in a crisis wants to weigh down taxes. It would also be necessary to take similar action with the police, teachers' salaries and so on. I'd give everyone a higher salary. By the way, if you're talking to people from care, I've done that again this weekend, together with Tamara van Ark, the Minister for Medical Care, then the first point is not salaries. The first point of people in care, especially nurses, is autonomy and the extent to which they influence their own function and growth potential and whether they are taken seriously in their professional exercise. That's where the worries are. I cannot anticipate Prince's Day, but I think we are trying to address these two aspects on Prince's Day, namely the question of pay and the question of autonomy and your profession well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u166	Am I understandable, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u167	Yes, you must press the foot pedal properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u168	This subject is not at all so far away from what we are discussing today, because we are dealing with a corona recovery fund, where people see very clearly that in France there is a structural reward for the care staff, while in the Netherlands it is lagging behind. That was one example. During my contribution, I referred to the example of Greece's defence expenditure. That too is a very different subject, but it has to do with the subject we are discussing today, namely making billions available to Member States suffering from corona. Does the Prime Minister at least agree with me that the resources we are making available for this should also be used to take measures to combat the crisis caused by corona and not to spend money on combat aircraft and naval boats and that kind of nonsense?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u169	The aim of the Recovery Fund is for countries to undertake reforms and to be entitled to loans and grants in return. These subsidies are intended to invest wisely. Then, in some countries, the misunderstanding that investing in green or infrastructure is a reform. Then I say: no, that is a sensible investment; that is not reform. You need them both, so you need the reform and the investment. I cannot judge exactly what Mr Kuzu is saying about Greece at the moment. I can't see all the specific situations. I know that the recovery fund has not yet received any payments to countries, so it cannot be that Greece is now making payments from that recovery fund, because that is not yet there at all. That would be crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u170	No, the example I mentioned was about what happened with resources from the previous support package for Greece. Then we are talking about 2015. Then we are talking about EUR 36 billion that was left unused. That money has now returned to the European Union. That money is now being reserved for the purchase of defence funds. I do not exclude that in the future, when we make funds available again, that kind of expenditure can also be incurred, so in matters for which that money is not really intended at all. There's my fear. I would like the Prime Minister to remove that fear and concern from many people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u171	Good agreements have been made on the recovery fund. They're on paper, too. These agreements include reforms as well as investments in digital and green. That's all well documented. Only in return for these reforms will it be possible to achieve investment contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u172	750 billion is lent on the capital market. Is that a form of debt mutualization or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u173	No, it's not. This is a temporary and framed investment. It is paid out of EU loans. That's an instrument we've had for a long time. We have used this in the past for the EFSM and for the instrument Balance of Payments. We use it for SURE. This is the employment programme that is part of the COOVID 19 Eurogroup package of April. And now it's getting important! As a Member State, you guarantee your own share, for your own GNI key. There is therefore no joint guarantee, as in the case of Eurobonds, where individual Member States are all liable for the entire loan sum. We don't do that here. That makes it fundamentally different. This is very important to us and also to Germany, because if that were the case, it would even be a constitutional issue there. That is why this form of funding is possible for us. By the way, I agreed with Omtzigt that it is not perfect. We also had this discussion in the Chamber when financing the SURE programme. It is not ideal, in the sense of: is that an instrument that you want to apply on a large scale? But it's not about any red line in the coalition agreement. Mr Krol often follows the coalition agreement and certainly also on this point. I can assure him that we are sticking to the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u174	A motion by Mr Omtzigt has been adopted. A large majority of the Chamber agreed to this. It says: calls on the government to ensure that no debt mutualisation or other new forms of debt are created. For the people at home, I say that this is a matter of common debt. Your colleague, Mr Macron, says quite clearly: on behalf of the Commune, we are going to face a joint debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u175	But if he says so, he hasn't. I'm just explaining. What you're doing here is just guaranteeing your own share. There would only be a common debt if the individual Member States were also jointly liable for the entire loan sum. So that is not what we are doing here, and that is very important. That is why it is very similar to that other instrument. This is also the answer to Mr Bruins. He asked that question in his first term. It's great that, helped by you, I'm answering the various questions. Then Mr Bruins' question was answered immediately. Indeed, there are no Eurobonds and no debt mutualisation. That is not the issue; we are not going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u176	I do not like to use the word 'lie', Madam President, but one of them is not telling the truth. That is either Mr Rutte or Mr Macron.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u177	What I think Macron says in that French statement is that individual Member States guarantee their own share on the basis of their GNI key. In the sum of course you have a pot of money together, but the big difference with a eurobond is that together, together, you also guarantee the entire loan sum. And we don't. That is a real difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u178	It's a nice explanation, but if someone doesn't repay his debt, it's still a common debt and the other countries will pay for solving that debt. You can explain every time it's in your favor, but this is a game that's actually too ugly to look at. I asked the Prime Minister another question. It is true that, in the run-up to a number of issues, it has been said that the level of the multiannual budget was unacceptable, that common debts were not required, that we wanted an emergency fund which was clearly intended for corona problems and that it had to be shown that you needed it. These are all conditions that the Netherlands has set and which have not been met, which have not become the outcome. I can really imagine you just don't drag it all into the negotiations, but why didn't the Prime Minister choose to say: okay, this is the result, I suggest we all go back to our parliaments now? Why did he not say that not every democracy works in the same way, but mine works in any case in such a way that the House of Representatives controls me and I would like to refer it to that House of Representatives? Then the Prime Minister could have defended it, then the parliamentary groups here could have said yes or no, but then no one would have been able to hide behind an agreement behind closed doors, everyone being the winner, while everyone was fighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u179	I think we're doing it here. The Dutch Parliament is simply sovereign over its own spending. If there's no majority here, it's off. That's easy. I believe that what has been achieved at that European Council is in line with the mandate we discussed here in the debate in preparation for that European Council: no Eurobonds, no debt mutualisation, a falling MFF......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With regard to the recovery fund, what I said here was achieved: if you were to take that step, it would have to be in return for reforms. It's all not perfect. We'll be on the rule of law soon. That is certainly not perfect, for example; there are still some criticisms. All in all, I think there is a package that is in line with the debate that has been held here in the Chamber. If the Chamber did not agree, the Chamber would be free to say: it is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u180	It has already been said by several parties on their own terms: we cannot change the outcome now, of course. If the Prime Minister here says he can, that's interesting. Is it indeed possible for the Prime Minister to go back and say: my Chamber does not support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u181	Is that possible? No, the whole budget will, of course, lapse. All parliaments must agree. That's the normal budget law of the House of Representatives. Europe does not have its own budget facility. Europe's entire budget law is anchored in the national parliaments. The European Parliament may also discuss this, but in the end it is anchored in the national parliaments. That's how it's recorded. The entire own resources decision is a unanimous decision. It always is. I am Prime Minister, so I have to make the final assessment as to whether it is in line with what I think is good for the Netherlands and with what I think is the feeling of the majority in the House of Representatives. I think that is the case here. Not on everything. I told you, I get that criticism of the rule of law. I'll be right back. But if you look at the imbalance, you can see the serious crisis that Europe is now in, you can see the conditionality that has been agreed and you can see that we have not crossed red lines with regard to taxes or own resources or debt mutualisation or Eurobonds or the abolition of rebaits, I think there is a very acceptable package. That's what I think. Otherwise, I won't be standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u182	The way the Prime Minister is defending it now, that's not how it's explained. It is interpreted as an historic step in the deepening of political union and certainly of currency union. Actually, friend and enemy agree. If that is the outcome of the negotiations and you say that you can defend it because it is necessary, then the Prime Minister could also have said: wait a minute, I am sure I can convince my Parliament, but I am not signing yet. It would have been really democratic. And now everyone can hide. One party is extremely happy, like D66............................................................................................................................................................................................ Others point out that this whole emergency braking procedure does not mean anything, because that is what the European Commission decides, and we know that this is not a technical committee. What would have stood in the way of making this process more democratic?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u183	Mrs Leijten is now referring to the image that is being called up in a number of countries. That is a difference in political culture. If the French president does anything, it's always historic. That's the way it is in France. That is a difference in political culture. If the Dutch Prime Minister does anything, those are small steps. Whatever the French president does, it's always big and historic. That's just the way it is. Let's just look at the facts. This is an important step, but it's a one-time thing. It suits this time of year. The fact that this is discussed differently in the free-trade political culture is fine, isn't it? The fact that there is a different interpretation is not a reason for me to go back to the Dutch Parliament, because otherwise it is afraid of the interpretation in Paris? We need to look at the facts. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u184	I would like to say to the Prime Minister that you should not joke about going back to the Dutch Parliament. That's what he should have done. He says it was such an incredibly good deal, with an issue of 1,800 billion in which a debt has been incurred for the next generation. Not only Macron says this is a historic agreement. That is also what your own coalition party, D66, is saying in this debate and in this morning's debate on Ecofin. It is said everywhere that this is historic. In fact, these plans were on the table a long time ago. Often they have been tried to introduce them. This time, the corona crisis has been successfully used to finally bring about the political deepening and deepening of the currency union. I really blame the Prime Minister for making this so small. If we look back on this step in five years' time, I am sure everyone will see that the European Union took a very important turn at that time, and that we have actually been messed up by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u185	I'm going to deal with Mrs Leijten a little bit. There's a risk she might be right. There is a risk of this not being a one-off and repeating itself. I believe that Mr Omtzigt and others referred to this. I will come back to the idea that Omtzigt launched about a study group or committee looking at the possibility of an opt-out. Fortunately, at the moment, I have no illusion that there would be a great deal of support in Europe for doing this again. This fits in with this moment. If this whole package were to have a more serious incident, it would be very important to establish politically with each other that this can be done in this unique situation. Minister Scholz of Germany also referred to this. He said, "Maybe you should do this again." Mrs Leijten is, of course, right that, if this were repeated, you would have a completely different political story. I understand, but that's not the issue. This is a one-off. That's how I agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u186	Historically or not: that's what you can do. The fact that the Prime Minister says it's a one-off, or a one-off, indicates that it's something very special. I also think it was very necessary in this crisis. Two downsides have already been mentioned by a lot of people. We would have preferred to see more money for the investigation and we would have preferred to see the rule of law harder. The Prime Minister was also talking about the European Union's own resources or income. I would like to ask him whether the Council conclusions actually state that the Union will seek to reform its own resources and introduce new own resources. Isn't that what the Prime Minister's signature is underneath?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u187	Yes, but that has to be looked at on a case-by-case basis. The only resource on the table now, next to the plastic tax, is the existing ETS plaque. For the Netherlands, that could have happened. We were prepared to add a second own resource to the existing ETS levy. This has been blocked by a number of countries. The political reality is, therefore, that you can define this in Council conclusions, but there are two things that are at stake here. One: there is great doubt in Europe about the usefulness of European taxes in a broad group of countries. That group is much larger than the four countries that worked together here, or the four plus Finland. In any case, the Netherlands is not in favour of this. The same applies to own resources. We're not against that in advance. Otherwise, we wouldn't have done the plastic tax and we wouldn't have been prepared to look at the ETS plaque either. However, own resources must be transparent, simple and predictable. My political prediction, and not just that of the Netherlands, is that a very large group of countries will eventually block many of these proposals. For the Netherlands, this cabinet is against European taxes. They're not getting there with this package either. As far as own resources are concerned, that is one of them, but it is a good thing for us. That's about the plastic. That's actually another key, next to the GNI key.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u188	On this point, I sympathise with Mrs Leijten. You have to be honest about what's agreed and about what's happening. In this way people in the Netherlands can get along and understand what the Dutch cabinet has decided and agreed in Brussels, in advance and afterwards. I'd like to leave that with the Prime Minister, because he's getting around it a little bit now. He makes it a word game: own income, own resources, own taxes, it's all not the same, it's all not gonna happen, don't worry. In the meantime, the Council conclusions are signed and the Minister for Finance says this morning here in this House I would like to remind the Prime Minister that, of course, this means that we are no longer entirely free. That's what we're gonna do. So, Prime Minister, please be honest about what has been agreed and what you're going to do. The Minister of Finance is ready to go; he gives ready wine. I think that'll help with the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u189	What I said is true, namely that the Commission has been invited to come forward with proposals. All these proposals must be assessed on the basis of unanimity, both in respect of taxes and own resources. As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, it is against European taxes and proposes to look at own resources on their merits. Once again, we were prepared at this European Council to move forward with our own resources, but this has been blocked by a very large group of countries. So let us not think that if we take evocatively in a conclusion that the European Union will come up with proposals, these proposals will be taken on board. I don't expect this to happen politically. This cabinet will at least block European taxes. We are against that. That's what the coalition agreement says. We look at our own resources on their merits. So it may be that if the ETS plaque is acceptable to other countries, then I would be in favour of adding it. Then you're gonna pay less on the GNI key and you're gonna do a little more on that ETS piece. That would be beneficial for the Netherlands. That was blocked. If the Commission comes forward with such a proposal and the blocking countries still adopt it, I would be fine with that. I had that mandate from the House of Representatives, but it's blocked. It shows how complex it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u190	That is exactly why we are in favour of these own resources. It saves Dutch tax. Just own resources collected from the border, from polluting products, from polluting countries. Greatly beneficial to make Europe smarter, safer and more sustainable. But then the Prime Minister says here: we are against European taxes. Look, they're not collected by tax officials from Brussels. No, they are collected by the Member States and then they go straight to Brussels. I just want the Prime Minister to be honest about what he's agreed. This cabinet simply said in Brussels about technicalities, CO at the border and plastic: we still have to look at the form, of course. However, as the Finance Minister said this morning, we are no longer entirely free. Just repeat that here, so that people in the country know: it's good for us. That's how you create support. That is good for the Dutch treasury and it makes us safer, cleaner and more sustainable. We support that, behind that signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u191	What Wopke Hoekstra rightly says is that the European Commission has been asked to come forward with proposals. That's right. I outline to you a political view of the Dutch cabinet, and we are not alone in this, which is a very broad front in Europe, in which we make a distinction between own resources, which we look at pragmatically, and the key on the basis of national income. This will become less and then you will also charge a charge on plastic based on such a plastic key. That is not per plastic bag, but that is true for the whole of the Netherlands; then you see how much plastic the Netherlands consumes. This proved to be very beneficial to us, and I believe that between 70 million and 100 million gains from the GNI key. Then we are merchants enough to say: we should do so. The same was true for the ETS plaque, but it was blocked by a lot of countries. I make the distinction between taxation and own resources. With regard to own resources, I think you should be pragmatic when it comes to keys, but with real taxes it is much more fundamental. And this coalition, of course, has agreements on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u192	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u193	Thank you, Mr President. I hear some surprise in your voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u194	It's good to see you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u195	That's mutual; you know that. This debate is also intended to see what might have been better or better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u196	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u197	The Prime Minister talked about modernisation. He mentioned a number of examples: climate, migration and innovation. That should have been a little more as far as we're concerned. The question is: if the Prime Minister had not, as he has done now, so strongly focused on the size of the fund from the outset, on the size of the MFF, would he perhaps have made more progress in those areas of modernisation? This also happened in 2013 and I said this earlier to Mrs De Vries when at the last moment the modernisation was withdrawn in order not to increase the budget too much. Has that really been in the Dutch interest? The Prime Minister has taken four days to do so, and the result is that the Commission's proposals have all been reduced. This applies to migration, innovation, grants under the Erasmus programme et cetera et cetera. How does he look at that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u198	The Netherlands has a share of about 5% in the total European economy. In the euro area it is a bit more, but I thought we were just below 5% in Europe as a whole, 4.9% or so. It is not, of course, the case that, when we insist on the 5% reduction of expenditure, we suddenly have infinite possibilities of forcing the rest to do so. Of course, there are very important interests in the rest of that budget. Such an interest lies, for example, in the common agricultural policy. The Netherlands is also getting something out of it, but our very innovative agricultural sector is of course getting much less out of it than some rather backward agricultural sectors in other countries. These are often large countries where politics is very important and those countries take powerful positions in Europe. These countries have been blocking a fundamental review of the common agricultural policy and the whole of cohesion policy for many years. Two-thirds of the budget goes to those things. So if you did, you could modernise a lot more within that budget. That's one. Two is that at some point there was a proposal for the 750 billion, with 500 billion going to grants and 250 billion to loans. Finally, it has become 390 billion for subsidies, and this drop of 110 billion has been mainly at the expense of a huge additional pot that the Commission wanted to add to the Multiannual Financial Framework. They also told us what it was going to be spent on. Instead of an additional 190 billion to the MFF from these new pot subsidies, this is now in practice 87.5 billion or 77.5 billion. In any case, it is 110 billion or 122.5 billion less than foreseen. These figures are of course exactly in the Chambers, but at least it is more than 100 billion less. The Commission could have said: if we get 100 billion, so much more will go to Horizon, so much to this and so much to that. So that's completely outside of the MFF discussion. We then manage to reduce that subsidy significantly, including at the expense of that additional addition to the MFF. And yes, then it will also be at the expense of this innovation. But yes, that was money that was always added to those pots outside the MFK. So I didn't think that was fair distribution. Now, if you look at what happens net, I don't think that's enough. So I have two points of criticism and at the first I agree with Bram van Ojik. I'll be on the rule of law in a minute, but here too, I would have liked more innovation. Nevertheless, there is still a lot of extra money going to Horizon, migration and border management, security, defence, climate and so on. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But I'd like more. Van Ojik's question is: if the Netherlands had not been so committed to limiting the ceilings, would there have been much more? I do not think so, because a vote of about 5% is too little leverage for that and b the very powerful positions of the French, Eastern Europeans and others on those great cohesion and agricultural pots simply block a fundamental innovation. So that would be my political analysis of his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u199	The latter is, I think, obvious. Those large countries have a great interest in high agricultural expenditure and in large cohesion funds, and that is why they are not prepared to give in. If they were, we would have had much more modernisation in 2013 and now again. Let me put it this way: that is the political reality that we must oppose. Even if this is the political reality, the question is whether you could have avoided those reductions that took place between the end of May, the last Commission proposal and the final agreement in all these areas. The Prime Minister and I agree that Europe could and should do much more there. Could you have prevented these reductions by not just putting the overall budget down in the final phase of these negotiations? That is the question of strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u200	Yes, a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u201	The question is: how did the Netherlands operate in those decisive final days and weeks and is that ultimately in the Dutch interest? I am asking, because that is what this debate is about. And if that was not in the Dutch interest, were we not what is called "penny wise, pound foolish"? Then you won the battle, but lost the war?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u202	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u203	I challenge him to look critically at his own performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u204	Yeah, yeah, sure! I'm critical of these parts. I also think there should have been more. But after a long period of hesitation, I disagree with Van Ojik. That is for two reasons; of course it is never black and white. One is that we actually thought that 500 billion in subsidies was really far too much. That's what we wanted to get below 400 billion. Actually, we'd have liked it to be a little lower. In the end, a compromise was reached at 390 billion. All this was, quite rightly, done away with the additional closure of the MFF, because I wanted to keep up as much of the subsidies as possible for the national programmes. After all, that gives you the leverage to reform, which is so necessary in some of those countries. That's how they can do it themselves next time. The 110 billion that went off would have been added out of nowhere, too. He wasn't in the old MFK from February, when I had that biography with me. Then you've got the MFK yourself. Within the MFF, there's still a lot more money going to those things. Then Van Ojik's question is: if you had bet less on the ceiling, could you have done more? I think that would have been very marginal, because you would have had to achieve that within those total pots the very large countries and the blocks in Eastern Europe had accepted that the money from the cohesion and structural funds and the agricultural funds, and so on, still two thirds of the budget, had really shifted considerably to renewal. That wouldn't have happened. That wouldn't have happened! Then the Dutch interest had doubled: limited additional investments there probably a little more, but still limited expenditure for the Netherlands and at the same time significantly higher expenditure for the Netherlands. And we are already one of the "nettoost"... in good Dutch.. one of the netost-payers; fortunately limited, because we are not going to pay more than last time plus inflation and economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u205	Mr Rutte is now making the Netherlands a little small by saying: 5% of the votes. But let's take a look at the credit rating. The EU has a triple A rating. There are few European countries that have them. The Netherlands has such a triple A rating. Can Mr Rutte explain exactly how Europe still has a triple A rating, when so few European countries have it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u206	Yes. That is because the food of the budget is certain. It's a contribution you're making a political appointment about. The EU is not a country, the EU is a club, an association, and we pay to the association. We commit ourselves to that contribution. I am not a monetary expert, but I understand that, monetaryly, the markets assume that these contributions will be paid. Of course, this means that there is a very high level of security on loans made against these contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr Krol, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u208	Now Europe is going to borrow a huge amount of money. What does the Prime Minister think: if it is not possible to repay it, then there will be a knock on the door of all those countries in Europe, while there are only five countries, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Sweden and Luxembourg, which have that rating? In the end, the bill will end up in the Netherlands too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u209	No, that has nothing to do with the triple A. No, no, no. The triple A that sits on those loans really has to do with the security of the contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u210	That was your fifth question, Mr. Krol, thank you very much. No, Mr. Krol, Mr. Krol! That was your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u211	You're getting increasingly unfriendly!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u212	No, I'm very kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u213	You are not only the chairman of the major parties, but also of the small parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u214	Mr. Krol, you get the same number of interruptions as parties with 20 seats and 30 seats and so on. It applies to everyone, including you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u215	Now Mr Wilders is waking up!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u216	No, not yet! You haven't got through it yet, but Mr Krol has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u217	Mr. Chairman. In the first block, on the budget, one more point. That is indeed the rule of law condition. It's not enough, let me put it first. I do believe that a step has been taken in the right direction by agreeing that there should be a link between the receipt of European funds and the respect of constitutional principles. That's important. Hungary and Poland have already been mentioned; these are, of course, the countries we are looking at in particular. However, I agree with those who say that it is broader and that it also has to do with the functioning of the government itself and elements of corruption that may occur there. It is therefore wider than the constitutional issues surrounding Hungary and Poland. The agreement that has been made is that the Commission may propose measures in cases where the legal shortcomings have a potentially negative impact on the financial interests of the European Union. Then the Council, acting by a qualified majority, will have to decide on it. This is also what was in the draft text. In that draft text that was provided with many more words around it. Of course, they're all scaled down. But at the heart of what it said, namely that the Commission is putting forward proposals for action in cases of constitutional shortcomings and that they should then be adopted by the Council by qualified majority, that is the key point. By the way, I would have liked to have seen that text tighter with others. Of course, this has been negotiated for a long time. I can only tell you that there has been a hard fight with like-minded Member States. What's next? There's work to be done. That's what we agreed. The German Presidency is now working to incorporate the conclusions of the European Council, which are, of course, political conclusions, into the rule of law regulation. We will, of course, be very careful to ensure that the political conclusions are in any case good. That's step one. In addition, we will continue to work for a strengthening of the constitutional conditions as a peripheral condition. In addition, it has already been mentioned, of course, the European Parliament is interesting. According to my information, in the European Parliament, the political groups of all the political families that are there, renew, the Christian-Democratic family, the social-democratic family, the green family, have all said that it will be a very essential point for them to be able to agree in the end. The legal part of the agreements will therefore be a very big discussion in the coming weeks. But again, I agree with those who say: this should have been better. Mrs De Vries then asked a specific question about Poland. I am indeed very concerned about the point she mentioned. The freedom to be who you are, regardless of your sexual orientation, is a fundamental European value. The reports from Poland that there would be homo-free or Ihbti-free zones are, of course, unacceptable. Commissioner Dalli, who has equality in her portfolio, therefore decided last July not to grant the twinning applications of six Polish municipalities that have such a homo-free, lhbti-free zone. We support this decision by the European Commission. Member States, including local authorities, should not take advantage of the common European values. The concerns about the independence of the Polish judiciary also have our full attention. Later this month, Stef Blok, the Foreign Minister, will discuss the state of play with his European colleagues. He will discuss the state of play in an Article 7 procedure. It will then be explained in the General Affairs Council. The Netherlands also participates in Court cases on the Polish rule of law and we also raise our concerns bilaterally and regularly in contact with the Poles up to the highest level. We will continue to do so. This in response to the special focus on Poland and the more general point of rule of law. Mr. Chairman. With your agreement, I will then come to the issue of recovery instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u218	Before the Prime Minister goes any further on this point. In the first term, Mr Omtzigt said that he would not mind if the Council were defeated by the European Parliament. I believe those were his words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u219	Yes. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u220	Well, that's a lot. I am a good paraphraser, said Mr Omtzigt just outside the microphone. Let me repeat that, otherwise it will not be in the Minutes. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u221	Otherwise it's an interruption!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u222	Yeah, that's it. We are now debating with the cabinet. The question is, of course, what the cabinet is going to do, regardless of whether the European Parliament is going to force the Council to do something. What is the Prime Minister going to do in concrete terms? Because at the moment, if I understand correctly, it is not excluded that countries that are failing to comply with the rule of law can claim money from the recovery fund. If I understand correctly, a procedure can only be initiated afterwards to correct that. That is not acceptable, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u223	The intention of which the Chamber also said: that is the minimum we want... Then it was said: shouldn't you go to a reverse qualified majority? I said that I really didn't see that happen. In the texts before the MFF in February, it was stated that the Commission could propose measures in the event of legal shortcomings which also affect the financial interests of the Union, which the Council, acting by a qualified majority, will then have to decide. The essence of the February text has remained intact in itself. That was essential to me, too. I can tell you that I myself... Well, I can beat my ass about this, because it didn't work out enough in the end. Let me take a look at my own part in that. I have been involved with a number of others. You have also seen this in the press in the statements made by the Hungarian Prime Minister in my direction. This was, in my opinion, the absolute maximum attainable. Otherwise this summit would have failed. The core phrase in the February concepts, of which the House of Representatives had also said "preferably a reverse QMV, but okay, we understand the political feasibility of a common QMV," has remained in it. I do not think that is enough, but in the weighting of the total acceptable. Given the fact that so many other phrases around it bring more atmosphere, are more conditional on how that instrument is used, I do not think it is enough, but completely acceptable. In doing so, it is not possible for the Dutch Government to influence this further directly, contrary to what I have just said: to continue to work in general, to see what the European Parliament is doing. The debate on the European Parliament will return, I expect in October, to the European Council. Then perhaps there will be already in September, but I honestly suspect October will be reported by the German Presidency on how the talks with the European Parliament are going. I can assure Mr Van Ojik that if a mouse hole occurs, I am very motivated to use that mouse hole. But we can no longer do so at the moment, given that we have agreed to the whole. It is not possible for me to come back from the European Council on this particular point. That is really going to have to come from Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u224	It will also come from Parliament. Well, at least that's what we can assume. About the whole Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u225	The big political families, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u226	...of all political colors supports this. But the problem is, of course, in the Council, because there are a number of countries in that area, to put it simply. They'll block this. If I am right, the conclusions of the summit do not say for nothing: the Council will discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u227	I thought that's what it says. I should check that out. If the Commission's proposals are there, then it will return as a matter of urgency; I thought it said so. But then the Commission must first... I thought it was meant to be. I'm kind of freestyling right now, but I thought it was meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u228	I read it like that. That's not for nothing. That is what it says because it seems that this has not yet been negotiated. Then it's all the more important, when it's discussed... But perhaps the Prime Minister could come back to that even more specifically in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u229	I'll check it out for the second term. Through you, Mr President, I ask you to look at the way that sentence was intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u230	Yes, how it was intended and how the Prime Minister is going to use that sense to turn his discontent about the weak rule of law mechanism into a more robust mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u231	Yes, and I would like to say here that I am not hopeful about that from the Council, without pressure from the European Parliament. This text was also produced in the Council, partly by the French President, myself and a few others...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u232	Historically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u233	Well, not historically, because what we wanted didn't work. It was sort of a lower limit, an absolute lower limit. I think it's true that the lower limit is very low. But the conviction was that if you didn't, the case would've gotten stuck. Then we were really four hours further on in a smaller circle. We've, I think, really looked up the pain limit. Then you really get into other systems. You have to start thinking: can you make a budget through an intergovernmental treaty or can you now create a European Union without Hungary and Poland? But then you're in very nuclear variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u234	The European Union and the whole project to centralise more and more power naturally speculate on the forgetfulness of people and politicians. Something happens and they think: a few years later there will be another subject that will play, then we will get through the elections. For example, every few years power becomes a step more centralized and people think over and over again: this time I still accept it, now we have harsh conditions. Of course that is the case now, but it has happened a long time ago, for example about twenty years ago with the euro. Then it was also said: "We made very hard agreements. The ECB is not going to reprint any money. Budgetary arrangements have been made." Those budgetary arrangements had already been broken before the euro even came into existence. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he see any parallel to what is happening now, with what is now being given to guarantees? Or doesn't he see that at all? It is also possible that because of his lack of vision he simply does not see this. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u235	Well, what an attack! But for a while, seriously. This is a one-off instrument, regardless of the MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework of seven years, which is intended to co-finance the Union. The recovery tool is a one-off. This applies not only to the Netherlands. This applies not only to the four sensible countries. This applies not only to the four sensible countries plus Finland. This applies to a very large group of countries, which says: we understand that this is necessary in these unique circumstances. That does not alter the fact that you must also have strict conditions for a one-off recovery instrument. I believe we have it. This, of course, differs from the establishment of the currency union in the Maastricht Treaty, which is still there, which is long-term. I agree with Mr Baudet that things have gone wrong in practice. Look at the statement by Jean-Claude Juncker, who once said: France is too big to stick to the SGP. I agree with Mr Baudet. Only, Mr Baudet's conclusion is: then you have to get out. My conclusion is that this is suicide for the Netherlands; we must make sure that it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u236	Each time the pattern is: it's a one-time thing, man, it's a one-time thing. That has been said so many times. That happened earlier in immigration situations, the general's pardon, the children's pardon or other matters. The story is always: it's a one-time thing. And then it's three years later: it's a one-time thing. What's the risk now? A total of 750 billion is now being lent on the capital market. It is the first time that the EU has done so. Perhaps it has been agreed that it will happen once, but it is an historic step. For the first time, the EU itself is allowed to make debts as an entity. That hasn't happened before. That is an absolute step towards European sovereignty. That's why it's so celebrated in the south. Rutte might think he's getting away with it by saying it's a one-time thing. But we will get to that in a moment, because of course it is not a one-time thing. In a few years' time there will be another crisis and they will say: you know what, we still have an instrument that we pushed through a few years ago. It's an incredible step. Do you know what happens if those southern countries can't pay later? It happens all the time. Look at history. Greece, Italy, France, Spain: they are constantly unable to pay their public debt. That was normally compensated simply by the fact that their currency was becoming a little less and less valuable. That's also a good system, but it can't be anymore. But that will end up with the Netherlands. It will then end up with the EU. That's what's gonna happen now. How one time it might seem to be, they're going to have their hands in their hair: help, what should we do? Then they come back here and they say again, "No, we're stuck with it now. We took that step then. We can't drop our partners." Don't you see? Can't you see you're just getting messed up in it? They're cheering now. D66 is cheering. All these Europhile parties are cheering. Apparently, they can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u237	D66 and other parties say that in such a serious crisis it is in the Dutch interest to ensure that countries that are hit even harder than we are hit very hard, but I am talking about countries that are getting even worse, partly because there is lagging behind in crucial reforms in areas such as the labour market, pensions and so on. That would mean two things: it would have far-reaching consequences for our economic position and would have consequences for Europe's stability. This stability is crucial to prevent us, the Netherlands, embedded in a strong European Union, from being protected from an uncertain world. We're too small to do that ourselves. We need this embedding in the European Union, the transatlantic relationship, NATO, the United Nations and other multilateral organisations. That's in our best interest. One of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u238	So you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u239	I'll finish him off, Mr. Baudet. One of the most important tasks for you and me is to keep the country safe, for example on the streets, safe in the sense that people keep their jobs, but also keep them safe in the sense that our very prosperous country in that uncertain world remains stable. We can't do that on our own. We're really too small for that, too prosperous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u240	Yeah, so we can do two things...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u241	I'm gonna kill him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u242	The Prime Minister has the floor. Then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u243	I would like to answer Mr Baudet properly. Next time, I'll do it shorter. So it is important that we do not make the economic asymmetry between northern and southern Europe much worse. We can, however, make the investments necessary to cope with this crisis. That's much less possible in the south. That is why it is wise to help there now, but in exchange for reforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u244	Those reforms are never gonna happen. They haven't been there in 500 years. That is one of the reasons why there is such a difference between the Catholic South and the Protestant North. That is actually one of the reasons why we have ever thought of creating sovereign countries. That was after about 150 years of war in Europe, from 1500 to 1650 about. Then we thought, "You know what? We're so different; we're gonna decentralize things for a while. We're gonna do our own business and do our own money." The Netherlands too; we then had to pay too much to Spain. That's why we waged our war of independence. Now the Prime Minister says two things. One. We can see that, when it comes to it, there is no stick to strike with. We saw that with the euro. The euro has in no way led to serious reforms in southern Europe. Two. Apparently, he's saying that these countries can't pop around. In other words, they can keep blackmailing us for days. He actually says here: we are totally blackmailable, because they must not fall over. What's turned out to be? For 500 years, it has not been possible to reform southern Europe. That's one of the reasons why it's so nice to go on holiday there; it's all a bit more relaxed. But they do not have the budgetary discipline we have. That's never gonna happen. Italians aren't gonna be Germans. French aren't gonna be Germans. It's been tried once in the 20th century. It didn't work out, it didn't work out. You're handing us over. You're just handing us out! What you are saying here is: they must not fall over; we must do what we can to prevent them from falling over. That's one. Two. Reforms never work. What are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u245	In this crisis, with a great difference in starting position between countries in the south, the north and sometimes also in the east of Europe, it is in the Dutch interest, and that is why we are here to prevent Southern Europe from further weakening, since we are both economically and organizationally embedded members of Europe, so that we know security in an unstable world, not physically in the sense of NATO, but because we are stronger by working together. What Mr Baudet does, I understand. He takes those words from me and then says: oh, that means that, whenever something happens, Rutte will say that we must prevent those countries from falling over. No, of course not. I fully agree with Mr Baudet. I also agree with Baudet that there are, of course, cultural differences in Europe. But still from historian to historian; he goes back to the seventeenth century, but let's take a look at the twentieth century. I was at the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome in March 2017. Surely there is something to be said for the fact that we can be proud of each other for what we have achieved in this continent by making coal and steel, important raw materials for warfare, as a nucleus of a European internal market, from which the EEC and the European Union ultimately emerged in 1957. That is, given the thought of "nie wieder Krieg" in a continent that had two world wars in the 20th century after the Franco-German war in 1870, isn't that an achievement? Surely we cannot throw that away entirely by saying: we are going back to the formation of the 17th century, from 1648?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u246	I don't think it's an achievement at all. It doesn't have anything to do with what it's about. It is now about debt mutualisation and spending 750 billion. In the end, I only have one question for the Prime Minister. The thousands of euros, the billions we have given to Greece, would be returned with interest. Of course, we've never seen a penny of that. "We'll get it back with interest!" Does he remember? Does he really think that the countries that are now borrowing from this fund, for which we guarantee, are actually going to repay it? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u247	The fund is, of course, set up in such a way that countries will be helped economically for a long time to get back on their feet, so that we will also be able to pay it back together and to bring that part of the subsidy together. Yeah, that's how it works. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u248	Bouncing naivety or just evilness! It's one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u249	I have not yet convinced Mr Baudet completely, but we are approaching each other. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt had a question about the budget law of the House of Representatives. How is the Court's budget law secured by the recovery instrument? The repayment of loans in the grant part of the recovery instrument runs through the European budget and thus through the payments. Of course, the Court is always informed about this, including the effects on payments. In the final analysis, and this is of course important for the Chamber and budget law, this is reflected in the accountability to the Foreign Affairs budget, on which, of course, the Chamber is politically determined again. There have been a lot of questions that I have been able to answer in the meantime because of all the interruptions. They dealt with the recovery instrument and how it relates to Eurobonds and so on. Well, it's not all that; we explained that. Mr. Chairman. Then the emergency brake. Here's what I'm gonna do. This emergency brake is, of course, a political agreement, and that is very important. It is a political agreement, not only between Member States, but also with the European Commission. In the direction of Mr Omtzig, he referred to the legal advice. The legal opinion of the Council's legal service says that the agreement reached by the European Council on the procedure does not affect the Commission's implementing powers. This will make it possible to make it compatible with the Treaty, because of course it is not a treaty change. What you are actually doing is making an intergovernmental agreement in a treaty based on a Community system, which the Commission is also politically committed to. Apparently, there's been a misunderstanding. I have also answered parliamentary questions about this and have been in contact with the Commission. First of all, it was said that it is only three months, but it is not. It can also be longer than three months. The Commission has confirmed that it interprets it in this way. Secondly, if things do not work out well in the European Council, then the Commission automatically brings it into comitology. No, then there are two routes. One route is via the Economic and Financial Committee. That's for unanimity. So it can go back to the European Council. The other route is comitology. What I discussed with the Commission in Brussels... But then there's got to be a good foundation. So if a reform was not carried out, to put it in good Dutch, and the Commission decided to make a payment, it would go to the European Council and it could eventually come to a halt, even after an extension. Then it is obvious that it goes back to the Economic and Financial Committee so that you can look again at whether we can get out now and, if not, whether it can go back to the European Council. Do you have the absolute guarantee that it will never be put into comitology by the European Commission? No, you don't have that absolute guarantee. But if that were to happen, it would be contrary to the political commitments we made in the European Council. I don't expect that to happen. But if it does, then of course you have a political crisis in the Union. Then the Netherlands will have no choice but to say: then we will have to strike at all the other decisions taken in the European Council. So I don't expect it to come to that. The political agreement is such that the route goes through the EFC, provided that there is good justification. To conclude, Mr President, it may well be that at some point a country says for a very different political reason 'I am blocking a payment on a tranche of a Member State, because I want to achieve something quite different', so without proper justification. In that case, of course, it is obvious that the Commission would say: then I will put it straight into comitology, because I would like to make that payment possible. Then there's some kind of hostage situation. That's how the deal was made. The Commission itself is very pleased with this, because it will, of course, greatly strengthen its position vis-à-vis the Member States in terms of enforcing reforms and making payments only if these reforms are implemented. I therefore believe that this is an important addition to the political agreement that reforms must face up to the recovery money. That has been a very important one for me, and not just for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u250	The Prime Minister says something interesting here. He says: the first round, the first three months, goes through the Economic and Financial Committee anyway. We must come out of this unanimously. If we don't get out, it'll come back after three or four months. Then the Commission will be able to choose between the committee again and then you will have a veto or comitology. There goes a qualified majority, so there's got to be a bigger thing. Then the Prime Minister says: if that happens against our will, there is a political crisis and then we are on strike. How am I supposed to imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u251	Well, before the image that I expect to emerge in Europe now, perhaps I should say: I do not expect it to come to that. The political agreement that has been made is the following. Suppose there's an obvious deviation, so I'm using the English word "compromise" of a commitment and still making a payment. It shouldn't be allowed to come to the EFC at all, in the sense of: hey, how can that lead to a payout? If that is the case, the Netherlands alone or other countries can decide to take it to the European Council, etc. The political agreement is in such a case that it is obvious that it returns to the EFC. That's what I wrote in the letter. Now Mr Omtzigt could ask me: do you have the absolute guarantee that that always happens? Then I say: no, there is no absolute guarantee, because then you have to change the treaty, if you absolutely want to. The disadvantage of this is that each Member State could take the European Council hostage and say, for very different reasons, 'I do not want that payment', not because that country has not fulfilled its objectives, but because that Member State wants to achieve a completely different political objective by taking the matter hostage at that time. If it were to happen at the end of the day, I do not expect it to happen, because the agreement has now been made, and everyone also has an interest in the proper implementation of it, and if the Commission says 'I am done with it; indeed, that reform has not taken place, but I am going to bring it into comitology so that it is approved by a qualified majority', then everyone understands that we have a political crisis in the Union. In the event of such a political crisis, the Dutch Parliament will say: now we are blocking; this cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u252	Oh, now it's the Dutch parliament that has to block it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u253	No, the Dutch Government, but I assume it would immediately be supported by Mr Omtzigt if that were to happen. But before people think I'm expecting this, I really want to say that I'm not expecting this for a second. The whole decision-making process, the whole political commitment on this point, is such that, provided that there is a sound basis, everyone understands that it can only be resolved if the reform has taken place; fine, then it is either in line with the Economic and Financial Committee. And that trail brings with it unanimity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u254	And where can we get confirmation of this appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u255	I cannot put that in writing, because the Commission will ask 'is it true that there are two routes?' Of course always say: yes, there are two routes. Apparently, that was a misunderstanding that occurred a few months ago, right after the European Council you asked questions about. Then it was said 'it is three months and then it goes into comitology', at least it seemed so. The Commission confirms to us that it understands very well that it can also be longer than three months and that two routes are also open. As we have discussed with the Commission, it is a good argument in the EFC, but of course the Commission reserves all the rights to do so. Nor will it explain in writing to me: in that situation we do sister. That is not possible at all, because of course it depends on the quality of the support and on all kinds of things. But it is absolutely clear: if a reform has not taken place in your face, there is only one route left. If it gets stuck in the European Council and is already stuck in the EFC before that, it goes back to the EFC.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u256	Okay, I've heard clearly that there's only one route left, and we'll hold the Prime Minister to that. I have one more question on the previous point, namely the legal advice. I would really like to have an explanation of what is in that last sentence. Does that last sentence mean that whatever happens, according to the Council's legal advice, the Commission has the legal option of always making payments because they are the ultimate boss, and that they can therefore simply put aside paragraph 8.a.19, which deals with this emergency braking procedure, and then be legally in their right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u257	That is, of course, because it is a political agreement. It's not a treaty change. But the Commission is part of the decision-making process in the European Council and has committed itself politically to this decision. If the question is asked whether the Treaty has been amended, the answer is: no, that has not been changed. Then you have to change the treaty. But the Commission is politically committed to this agreement and therefore has these two routes open, so that a proposal can then be made through the EFC or through comitology, as we have just discussed. And in the event of a clear non-fulfilment of the reform, this goes through the unanimity route. This is without prejudice to the powers of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, but those powers of law are now, of course, limited by the political agreements reached in the European Council. That's the special thing, of course. Here a route has been searched and found in which you politically commit the Commission to a political agreement without amending the treaty. They are, of course, also part of the European Council process when it comes to this emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u258	So I understand now that they can do it legally and the Netherlands doesn't have a leg to stand up at that time, but they solemnly promise not to do it for the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u259	No, look, the Commission is ultimately about the payout. It should seek the opinion of the Economic and Financial Committee. That has to be decided, and if one of the Member States says 'it is not right' then the political agreement is that it goes to the European Council and so on. The Commission has made a political commitment to this, but the Treaty has not been amended. So it's a political agreement we made. So you have made an intergovernmental agreement within a Community process. That was, of course, the only way to reach a political agreement. If the Commission does something crazy, for example, after it has passed through the EFC and the European Council decide to make a payment on a specific tranche while country X has not reformed its pensions, and to settle it through majority decision-making in the Ecofin, then of course you have just a crisis. Everyone in Europe understands that, too. Conversely, you also have a political crisis when a country takes the whole thing hostage and says: I do not want it to be paid out because I want to achieve something quite different. It would then be logical for the Commission at that time to have the route open for the comitology procedure and thus for Ecofin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u260	This is about appointment A19, the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u261	No, A27.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u262	Okay, but what's really important in the end is the question: is there an emergency brake or not? It is not for nothing that this piece of text is the longest article of all agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u263	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u264	That means that it has been talked about for a very long time and that every word has been weighed and counted. Not for nothing is the Legal Counsel on top of it. But do I understand that this Legal Counsel says that the agreements made this summer do not change the Commission's power, mandate, to implement programmes and budgets?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u265	Yes, but that mandate is now, of course, framed in a political agreement made by the Commission in the European Council. This was also possible for the Commission to do so, because of course the Commission wanted to limit the powers they have under the Convention. Yes, strictly speaking, the Commission may therefore decide to do so even though a pension reform has not been carried out. This could be done in theory, but of course they will act against the political agreements we have made and then you will have a problem, a political problem. Then you will probably have that one payout, but then you will have a completely different discussion in Europe, from the Dutch government, but I also think from many others. And that, of course, is the most important part of the legal advice. That is what the Commission needed to say: if we commit ourselves to this as politics, we can do so. And the legal service says, "Yes, it can, because it strictly does not change the treaty. It does, of course, give a political commitment to your powers, but it does not, strictly speaking, change the treaty." That's right. It's not a treaty change as such. And maybe you shouldn't want that either, because that also makes it very difficult to prevent hosting taking place on a completely different political motive where the payment of a tranche is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u266	The colouring of this legal advice is, of course, also determined by the person who requested the legal advice in that sense. In case of an emergency brake, you think of one passenger on a train pulling the emergency brake, which stops the whole train. But here I still feel that it is not an emergency brake, rather an alarm bell. One person can hit the alarm bell, but that doesn't mean the train stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u267	Yes, I do. He stops, but it's not a veto. Here's what you're gonna do. You have an emergency brake, so that train stops. Then everything shuts down. We are going to the European Council. It's three months, but it can be extended. It's probably not gonna come out, is it? Of course, you're hoping it didn't happen before. The fact that you have this emergency brake also strengthens the Commission's belief that their position towards the Member States in the drawing up of the agreements, but also in the fulfilment of those agreements. What can the Commission do in the theoretical case of the emergency brake being pulled and it is going to the European Council, possibly with an extension of the emergency brake, and there is no reason why it is being discussed exhaustively and exhaustively and not going well? Then the political understanding is that it returns to that unanimity process through the Economic and Financial Committee. That makes it an emergency brake. It's not a veto. That's why I'm saying I don't want tubers for lemons. If anyone here wants to say that the Netherlands can stop the ultimate, I say: no, that one tranche cannot be stopped at the end of the day if the Commission wants to do something bad, which I do not expect at all. But then they'd have to break all that political understanding. That's really not likely. That is not in their interest either, because their interest is to strengthen themselves in the position vis-à-vis the Member States that need to reform. If it were to happen, the aftertaste of that is of course that we have a completely different discussion, because then we feel fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u268	But the emergency brake is then in the changed political reality and not so much in a contractual arrangement, as you would make in a private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u269	It's a political deal, not a contract, because then you'd have to change the treaty. It is a political agreement and of course it is very relevant here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u270	In my view, that is precisely the big pitfall, namely that it is a political agreement, carried out by politicians who always have something to trade. So it's butter soft. We have even agreed in the Maastricht Treaty that there are all kinds of rules on public debt, and you name it, but they have never been enforced. We have rules on the rule of law and human rights, but they are never enforced. And the Prime Minister says here: I have made a political deal and I am sure it will still be maintained in 15 years' time. Well, I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u271	It's not 15 years from now, because this is going to take six years. It's been three years of commitment and six years of payout. So over the next six years, this will have to work. Then it stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u272	And in those 30 years after that, the debt has to be repaid. That is also a political agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u273	That has nothing to do with the emergency brake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u274	No, but it's all a political agreement, because it can't be a treaty. Then we would have a treaty discussion and countries would listen to their people, and let that not be the intention. As to whether the same agreement that you would repay your own borrowed portion, the Prime Minister has not yet answered. If countries cannot or cannot do that, then we still guarantee that part of the loan. So saying these aren't eurobonds is bullshit. Saying that this will only happen once is just a political agreement. To say that there is an emergency braking procedure is also a political agreement. There are no guarantees. Warranties to the front door. No, guarantees to the press release.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u275	No, that's just not true. This arrangement does not apply for 30 years, but for 6 years, because the payments take place over a period of 6 years. Commitments are entered into in two or three years. It is then in a total period of six years from 2021 that tranches are also paid out. That's a clear period of time. It's a real political deal. Again, he is in conclusion that if he is not complied with, you have the opportunity to say that you cannot accept it because it is contrary to what we have politically agreed. The Netherlands and other countries will do the same, I think. There were two more questions about the recovery fund, Mr President. Mr Van Otterloo asked about the implementation of the Azarkan motion on effective spending. That point of efficiency, including the role of the European Court of Auditors, is explicitly reflected in the final conclusions, in paragraph 24. The Regulation provides that the receiving parties should fully cooperate in the investigation of the European Court of Auditors. It carries out checks on the funds invested directly in the Member State, including those from the recovery fund. In addition, the European Commission will conduct an independent final evaluation on efficiency. I think that the motion has been honored, or at least justice has been done; honour may go too far, but at least it has been done right. Will the Netherlands also use this? That's what we're looking at right now. I'm not getting ahead of myself yet. We will, of course, inform the Chamber about this in due course. Mr President, I would like to turn to Mr Bishop's question on redemptions. The maximum risk for the Netherlands is 1 billion going down to 800 million to 2058. That's the point. That was in the newspaper this morning and it was also in the letter of the Chamber of 24 July. That's the maximum risk. That assumes that you won't find a solution for the down payment under the next MFF. Because this is going to run from 2028, so with the next seven-year budget. That's what it's gonna take. That is also not deducted from what the Netherlands itself might take out of that pot. That was the previous question we're going to look at. More than five or a little less than six billion can come our way. And it also assumes that nothing will happen at all at the point I spoke to Mrs De Vries, in terms of own resources. As I said, the Netherlands is looking pragmatically at own resources. Those aren't taxes, because this cabinet doesn't want taxes. But we look pragmatically at own resources if that is in our interest. So you could say, the maximum risk is that 1 billion going down to 800 million. That's the ultimate risk of walking. It is not yet possible to say what the annual repayment is. Because for that you need to know the maturity of the loans issued, so that you also know when to redeem. The Commission will regularly inform us about this. You also need to estimate the redemption at an even annual redemption. We are now setting it up, if Mr Bishop is okay with it, because that is not possible at the moment. Part of that will also be in the function of what happens next, which is deducted from the 800 million or the billion. If we know more and can say more about it, I will of course try to answer Mr Bishop's request. But I can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u276	Can the Prime Minister put a deadline on that? What are we supposed to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u277	No, but I'm gonna ask the officials. They are listening and will tell me what I could answer in the second term. Finally, the third pile. That was about a number of other questions. A question was about the terrible images from Greece that we saw. It's really terrifying and inhumane. This calls for a solution to that dire situation there. Ankie Broekers, the Secretary of State for JenV, also said something about this. You will receive a letter on that matter in the morning. I understand there's an E.R. on that in the Chamber tomorrow afternoon. I would actually like to suggest that you refer to that now, because I do not have the latest state of affairs here in this debate. So I join everyone who says terrible. I am pleased that Sigrid Kaag, the Minister for Development Cooperation, has been able to make funds available very quickly to meet the first humanitarian needs. But again, there will be a letter and tomorrow there will be an urgent debate or an emergency AO on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u278	That's right. The reason for putting it to the Prime Minister in this debate is that the Secretary of State in the media has already said that we are not going to include vulnerable children in the Netherlands. Well, we've known that point of view for a long time. I don't have to mention all that. But you might think that something has changed now, because the Prime Minister himself says that what we have seen does not leave us all untouched. It is precisely what new step we can take. The Prime Minister can then say: you will read that in the letter tomorrow. But I have already heard on television what it does not say, namely that we are going to take over vulnerable children in the Netherlands, as Germany, for example, has done immediately today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u279	The Netherlands has a unique program running with the Greeks about the care of children on the mainland. That's about significant numbers. One of the things being looked at is how to use that program. The images are terrible, but again, I have prepared myself knowing that there will be a letter tomorrow morning and an urgent debate tomorrow. That's why I thought it would be better to refer to that. Otherwise, we are doing the debate here, and I find that complicated without that letter. And I don't know the last stand either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u280	In such a time of crisis, Angela Merkel immediately knows what to say, and I think that our Prime Minister can say a little more about that. He spoke last week in the debate about kindness and mercy. That was about his own rulers. Would such an attitude not be appropriate to such a crisis situation in Greece?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u281	Sure. And I also believe that we do. There is a permanent crisis on the Greek islands. We said we want to help. That's where the Shelter program came out. Tomorrow's letter will go into more detail on how this can be used to help here. I believe we do it in the spirit of those words. Again, that is what the debate is about tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u282	What I have seen today is a million more like a kind of buy-back of the problems of national political problems than an essential solution to the wretched situation of the refugees and, in particular, the children there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u283	That's a real misunderstanding. That million is really meant to meet the immediate needs. I'm glad Sigrid Kaag managed to make that available immediately. Then it is really about the immediate humanitarian situation. The more structural situation with the babies will be discussed tomorrow. It's totally separate. That has nothing to do with the million. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt asked how the Netherlands gets its fair share of the money, for example for Brexit: the 5 billion that has been allocated to the new special Brexit Adjustment Reserve. The way in which it is implemented and distributed remains to be seen. The Netherlands will of course follow that very critically and precisely, because we are more than average affected by Brexit. That is widely recognised. I cannot say any more about this at the moment, but I can assure Mr Omtzigt that we are working on it. The CDA and other parties have asked about the situation with the United Kingdom. We have taken note of the bill published by the United Kingdom today. The agreements made with England in the withdrawal agreement are legally binding on both sides, on the British and on us. So I'm just assuming they'll stick to that. If there's anything I can do tonight, it's here to say it. This is important, not only on the European side, but also on the British side, for citizens and for businesses, again, also for the UK itself. We remain committed to a broad and ambitious agreement. That too is in the interests of the United Kingdom. I also think it's still possible. I really want to leave it at that, because if I continue to interpret that bill, then I will not help the case. If Mr Omtzigt and others wanted to express their concern, I share it. I've seen it, too, but I don't think it's gonna help if I say more about it now. I would like to call on the British to continue to act in the spirit of the withdrawal agreement, which is legally binding on both sides, and not to do anything that might contradict it. I'm not gonna say anything about that bill published today, but I get the concerns. Mr Omtzigt also asked a specific question about the wider European financial and monetary situation. He referred to the European Central Bank and to the possibility of opt-outs, which I mentioned earlier, the increasing national budget deficits, the public debt in times of crisis. He said: wouldn't it be good to look at broad, not just at center-right solutions, but at the options across the very broad political palette? How could you deal with that so that things would be ready? I was robbed by that for a while, but chewing on it I think there can be a lot of value in that. I have been in touch with the Minister of Finance, Wopke Hoekstra, and agreed with him that I would say here on that suggestion that we will come up with a response in the short term, within one or two weeks, in which we will indicate how we intend to shape it. We will keep in touch with Mr Omtzigt on this. In his mind, we will do it in width. We will not only look at variants that like parties like CDA and VVD. For the political balance, I think it is logical that you should also look at variants that are more from the corner of the Labour Party, D66 or GroenLinks. At least you've thought through all those options in a row and those scenarios. So I shall come back to that with a positive basic attitude. Mr Bishop asked a question about the ever closer union. I think that is a terrible phrase too. This can only be done in the event of a treaty amendment, which is not currently being discussed. We can't do anything about this until we have a treaty change. In the meantime, we are doing everything we can to make the Union work better. "A more perfect union" I myself called it. After ten years in this job, the moment you start quoting your own speeches comes. I see here that I said that in a speech in Berlin in June 2018. I would like to refer to that moment. A modernised budget is of course part of a more perfect union, but it also strengthens the internal market, effective migration policy and a sensible climate policy. To Mr Bishop, we have not forgotten this. Mr Van Ojik asked about the strategy. In fact, we have already discussed them with each other in the event of interruption. He also asked for clarification of the "do no harm" principle. This means that investments are aimed at a sustainable future and that they should not harm, among other things, climate, environment and human rights. It is important that this principle is properly developed in the underlying regulations. A good example of this has been mentioned today. That is the Just Transition Fund, which excludes fossil energy, or at least helps countries on their way to excluding fossil energy. Mr Van Ojik also asked for a subsidy pot for polluting energy in respect of that JTF. The JTF includes an exclusion list, excluding fossil energy in that Just Transition Fund. In addition, all expenditure in the broad MFF of 1 trillion, or 1,000 billion, but also in the recovery instrument must be in line with the Paris Agreement and the "do no harm" principle. This means that investments in fossil fuels, among others, are phased out. In reply to Mr Otterloo's question on public debt, I would like to refer to Mr Otterloo's own thought experiment. That was whether we would benefit from low public debt and whether we should not reduce private debt by increasing debt. I would like to leave that thought experiment with Mr Otterloo for the time being, however attractive it may be for the short term. There really are a few rather strong monetary and financial hooks and eyes on it. Let me say, however, that I am very pleased that, because of the great apple for the thirst that was there in these times of crisis, we were able to react quickly and quickly from a financially sound starting position. I think that has been very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u284	It's Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u285	Yeah, Van Otterloo. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u286	I'll listen anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u287	I know a private Otterloo without Van, but you're the rich branch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u288	No, we left before Napoleon. That's a different story, but that'll appeal to a historian.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u289	Tell me, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u290	It is not about us being happy that we can do this now. It's also about the future. We find ourselves in a situation with an unprecedented flow of debt. Because we have been careful, we will soon have much lower public debt than other countries. In doing so, we run the risk of suddenly being confronted with the fact that all kinds of stripes are drawn by debt, but that is not obvious for our country, as measured by the state debt. The comparison with Italy has passed a number of times. Italy has low private debt and high public debt, while the opposite is the case in the Netherlands. This is also due to the way in which we in the Netherlands make choices about the use of general funds and the burdening of the population. Hence the thought experiment. That does not need to be finished today, but it is about reversing situations again in order to bring about a clear vision of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u291	I get it from that angle. But economic-monetair is also a risky route, because it would also mean that you will greatly extend the balance sheet for the benefit of the private balance sheets. That is how I understand Mr Van Otterloo. That is not without risks, as we have seen in the past. If the interest rate is going to rise, that's going to happen again, you have to be careful not to put a millstone around your neck. As regards the assumption that debts will all be crossed out against each other, we are, of course, there ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u292	Everything comes with a risk. Maintaining private debt is also a major risk. It is precisely the balance of those two risks that Klaas Knot is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u293	Finally, the question about single-limb collective action claws. That is what the Italian Parliament is about at the moment. This was also discussed in the Ecofin Council this morning. I also discussed it with the Italian Prime Minister when he visited me in the run-up to the European Council in July. We urge Italy to sign that agreement. It is now up to the Italians to make this happen. It's just an agreement we made in Europe. It must be implemented as far as we are concerned. This is also important because it is an integral part of the ESM reforms. This is very convenient for us. That is what we are on top of, and Mr Hoekstra also spoke about this in the Ecofin Council this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u294	Last question. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u295	This is very important. At some point, debt write-off could be on the agenda. Italy will not be at the very bottom of the line of countries that have to write off their debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u296	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u297	Can I understand that this is simply one of the conditions that the Netherlands will apply to Italy if it comes to payment from the emergency fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u298	I just need to think about if you can say that right now. I understand politically, but in the end, on the basis of the agreements with the European Commission, Italy is making a package of reforms and all sorts of things. We must keep the Commission in mind that this package includes the necessary reforms. And then we have to stick to Italy, which is the case for all countries, otherwise Italy will be angry again that it is complying with all the reforms, in exchange for the tranche of the subsidies it receives from the subsidy fund. In any case, we cannot guarantee here in Parliament that this issue is part of that programme. That is what the Commission is doing with Italy, so I cannot make that promise to Mr Omtzigt. However, I will look for ways to put further pressure on Italy, because I agree with him that it is very annoying that it did not happen. This is an important reform. It is also very important because of the monetary situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u299	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u300	Then I hope that the Prime Minister will make it clear in a week or two weeks how this will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u301	That is an effort obligation. I can't take on a performance obligation for Italy. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u302	Now, here's the whole pain. This is a political agreement and it is damn clear. All countries would do single-limb CACs. That sounds very technical, but it means that debts could be written off and that not somewhere a small owner of debts from such a country, for example a nice hedge fund, blocks the whole thing. It is not surprising that not Estonia or Finland are blocking this, but that Italy is blocking it, because Italy has the second largest debt in the whole euro area. And what do we see now? We must defend a political agreement here and the previous political agreement is not being implemented. I would like a clear letter from the Prime Minister explaining how this agreement can be implemented. 'Cause this appointment might be very necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u303	I agree. What I can't do on my own is I don't want to sell bullshit here. I can only guarantee that Mr Hoekstra and I will make a maximum effort to use all the instruments we come up with to put pressure on Italy. I shall therefore ask Mr Hoekstra, Mr Omtzigt, for the most part, but not on the issue of the obligation to produce results, to report as soon as possible to the AO Ecofin, which has taken place today and where this issue has been discussed, so that we can see where we stand. I think that in itself is helpful, including towards Italy, to show that it is being looked at and that this is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u304	Thank you. No, Mr. Ommzigt. I just got Mr Krol mad, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u305	But it's finalizing and that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u306	No, no. You can't interfere, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u307	One more time, though. I'll see how we can do that. I can make an effort here, but not an obligation to achieve results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u308	You also have a second term. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u309	Finally, I would like to express my support for our scientists and researchers and for our universities and knowledge institutions. They are incredibly good and they looked at this budget with great expectations. They see, of course, that Horizon Europe, the European Union's science programme, is getting more money, but they had hoped for much more. I would ask the Prime Minister to do everything in his power to stop that part of the budget from getting more science and research money in the next few days and weeks. This is typically something that benefits the Dutch economy and the Dutch knowledge institutions greatly. That's my call to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u310	Here's to it. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u311	Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I can see from the faces of the Members of Parliament that they need a second term. Mrs Leijten has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u312	Mr. Chairman. A political agreement has been signed with no guarantee whatsoever. Yeah, we're gonna have a political fight if countries don't stick to it. Well, we have seen that in recent years: countries have always gone over it and never has it produced anything other than further deepening of the European Union and further deepening of the currency union. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the current agreement the assignments given by the Lower House together with the text of the coalition agreement have not been complied with at all;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw its support for the recovery fund and the European budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1577]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u313	Mr. Chairman. I had asked an important question: what happens if another country fails to fulfil its obligations? Surely the Netherlands and other countries will be at the bar? "Yes, there may be risks, but I can't say anything about that yet." So this is just dealing with debt-sharing. Just say it! Is this a one-time thing? We don't know. This is a political agreement. Just say you don't know! In particular, say that you do not want it to be a treaty change, because there will be referendums in all kinds of countries. Those countries will therefore allow the population to move forward. Mr. Chairman. We find it very sad that the outcome is what it is and that it is being disguised as such. There is no political courage to simply defend something that may not have been your commitment. Which brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Prime Minister reached an agreement at the European Summit of 17 to 21 July 2020 that exceeded the fundamental limits of the House of Representatives and the coalition agreement;]] [[points out that the Prime Minister has failed in the negotiations on the Multiannual Financial Framework and the European Recovery Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1578]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u314	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u315	Madam President. I assure you that the Netherlands will not forgive Prime Minister Rutte and the VVD. They have agreed unsolicited EUR 1 800 billion for countries in southern Europe and for Brussels. And everyone in the Netherlands remembers Prime Minister Rutte giving bins of money to Greece and his lie that we would get that money back with interest. That's what Rutte said and we never got it back. And now again tens of billions are going from the Netherlands to Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal! That's money in the form of gifts and loans. We don't want gifts anyway, but we don't want loans, because we'll never see them again. This Prime Minister has hunted with the interests of the Dutch people. He's letting the Dutch down. For us no VAT reduction, for Dutch no rent reduction, no lower energy bill, no higher AOW payment, nothing at all. Finally, Madam President, I would ask the Prime Minister to answer this question, perhaps he can take the trouble to answer it. Who exactly do you belong to, the Prime Minister? From what country? Not from the Netherlands. And of what people, of which people? Not from the Dutch. They don't trust you anymore. You're wasting their money. The Netherlands will deal with you on 17 March, and I am doing so now, Mr President, with a motion of censure, which I, on behalf of the Group Chairman of the Forum for Democracy, Mr Baudet. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1579]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u316	Madam President. Either Prime Minister Rutte or Macron isn't telling the truth. That the Prime Minister doesn't understand that, I think it's even worse. I don't trust the common debt plan. Hence the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that future generations are burdened with enormous financial burdens by the EU Restoration Fund;]] [[Whereas the recovery fund is used by the EU Member States to incur common debts;]] [[whereas the EU Restoration Fund is not in the interest of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to withdraw immediately from the recovery fund for irresponsible handling of Dutch taxpayers' money,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1580]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u317	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister has said that he will come back to the discussion that is to take place in the Council on the rule of law, but in anticipation of that, because of course I do not know what he is going to say, and I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rule of law is under increasing pressure in several EU countries;]] [[considers that the Council's compromise on a link between respect for the rule of law and receiving contributions from the Recovery Fund does not provide sufficient guarantees for effective monitoring of respect for the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to launch at EU level a procedure which lays down conditions for compliance with rule of law prior to receiving contributions from the Recovery Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1581]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u318	Mr. Chairman. Then the terrible events in Camp Moria. It's true, tomorrow we'll have a debate with the Secretary of State. This debate is about Europe. As long as scenes such as those that have taken place today in Camp Moria can take place on European territory, it is appropriate, I think, that we as a Chamber should give a ruling on this and a request to the government. Hence the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large fire at Camp Moria on Lesbos has made the already unsustainable situation worse;]] [[Whereas this has made it impossible to continue the shelter at Camp Moria;]] [[calls on the Government to support Greece in the shortest possible time in the evacuation of all asylum seekers from Camp Moria, offering, like other EU countries, a proportionate proportion of the vulnerable in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1582]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u319	Mr President, perhaps a point that is more of a point of order. I would like to vote on this last motion at least this week, because otherwise we will be able to put this motion to the vote again after the week of the General Reviews, so the 22nd, I say, out of my mind. That seems to me to be very late given the urgency of the problem. So I'd like to apply for a VAO tomorrow, if that helps, after the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u320	Oh. You're filing the motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u321	I'm filing her now, yes. You can vote now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u322	But you're filing a motion while the VAO is taking place tomorrow. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u323	I shall table a motion and at the same time request that we vote on this motion before the end of this week, as far as I am concerned tomorrow after the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u324	No, the motion has already been filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u325	There will undoubtedly be further motions at the AO tomorrow. Then we can apply for a VAO and this motion can also be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u326	No, because we have... Let me see if we can get the vote... Because if no motions have been tabled, except for this motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u327	That's why. So this motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u328	No, I just want to... Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u329	Mr. Chairman. I understand that this is an order proposal, but the SP can certainly support the fact that there is a time to at least vote on motions on this urgent matter before the General Reviews take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u330	There must be a majority for that, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u331	Mr. Chairman. Normally, without the corona rules, we have a pre-announcement notice and then we can vote. But I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. We are in favour of voting on it tomorrow at the latest, in other words for the general political considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u332	Yes. Mr Nijboer and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u333	Mr. Chairman. I expect that after such a heavy AO, which is also the subject of a letter from the cabinet, a VAO will be requested tomorrow and that the request for a vote will also be made. That seems to me to be the most practical thing. Otherwise, I can vote tonight. But we shouldn't wait weeks to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u334	Mr. Chairman. It is not entirely procedurally correct to table a motion first and then leave an AO tomorrow. I'm having a little trouble with that. However, given the urgency of the subject, I think it would be wise if you now announced that there would be a VAO tomorrow, that tomorrow there would be a vote for the motions on that VAO and that this motion would then be added to it. This is with the request whether it should not all be done jointly and severally, but we should look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u335	Mr. Chairman. I think it is a sensible approach that we should vote tomorrow on all the motions concerning Moria and the situation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u336	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u337	Mr. Chairman. In view of the urgency of the matter, we shall vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u338	As far as I am concerned, we shall vote tomorrow on the motions on Moria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u339	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u340	That's a great idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u341	Mr Sjoerdsma: do you agree? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u342	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u343	Thank you. The whole room supports it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u344	It seems that an unusual procedure will enable you to achieve a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u345	Yeah, I know. You have a sneaky arrangement of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u346	I'll put the motions in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u347	Yes, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u348	I almost thought I had already entered the debate on the Rules of Procedure, but that is for tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the answers given. I hope we can talk more about the thought experiment. What do I think for the short term, although............................................................................................................................................................................................. I put that in a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Union is passing on the financing burden of the Economic Recovery Fund to the Member States, on top of the increase in the MFF that they have consistently requested;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has been the largest net contributor of the EU per capita for years;]] [[calls on the Government not to accept any financial burden under the European Recovery Fund, so that the debate on the size of the EU budget and payments is not clouded, but can be conducted within the appropriate framework: the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1583]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Prime Minister for his reply. For the sake of time, I wanted to table two more motions dealing with the issues of this package: research on the one hand, the rule of law on the other. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the European Council conclusions on the MFF in the field of constitutional conditionality are not strong enough and clear enough and that there are different interpretations of the agreed existence among Heads of Government;]] [[noting that the European Parliament has also provided strong guarantees as a condition for agreement with the MFF;]] [[calls on the government in the Council to take the initiative as soon as possible to develop the Council conclusions in such a way that Member States which do not comply with the rule of law under the new MFF are effectively excluded from European subsidies and report to the Chamber in two weeks' time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1584]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another motion on the investigation and Horizon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Parliament believes that more investment in innovation and research through the Horizon Programme is needed in the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no pillar in Horizon Europe's budget is adjusted downwards, to strive for the optimal distribution of the pillars for Dutch science and to make an effort to increase the budget for Horizon Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1585]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u351	Thank you. Mr Nijboer has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u352	Thank you, Mr President. There is a humanitarian crisis in Europe and it has been going on for some time. The Netherlands takes an attitude that the PvdA Group does not like at all. Germany shows moral leadership and I would like and wish the Netherlands to join. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the humanitarian crisis in Camp Moria has become even greater than it already was;]] [[calls on the Government to offer at least 500 single children a safe home in the Netherlands as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Raan, Mr Kuzu and Mr Van Otterloo.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1586]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u354	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u355	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. One set of questions he carefully avoided. These were the last questions, which related to: is it not time to just have an open debate on how we want the EU set up? Now I know that the Chamber itself is working on that, but that might very well be a trace. I therefore continue to press for this debate to be held with the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. A little while while waiting for the information to come in the second round, I shall also table a motion for a resolution. It could still be withdrawn. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the EU Summit on 17 to 21 July 2020 reached agreement on the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 and on the Recovery Fund;]] [[noting that this has an impact on the Dutch contribution, in particular on the payment from 2028 onwards, as from that year the loans from the recovery fund will have to be paid;]] [[Whereas it is important that there is a clear picture of the impact of the agreement on the Dutch contribution;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the expected Dutch annual payments to the EU up to 2058 as a result of the agreement reached, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof before 1 November 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1587]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u356	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u357	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u358	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions. As far as debt mutualisation is concerned, a sensitive issue is concerned, it has become clear to me that we do not share responsibility for debt but are responsible for parts of the debt. That seems semantics, and it's partly semantics. It's a fine line when it comes to debt mutualization. That's what I wanted to say. This debate has also shown that the emergency brake is a political agreement, while we are still waiting for a previous political agreement to be met. That too is a sensitive point. Although the Prime Minister cannot commit to results, I think we expect him to deliver on that point. I expect Mr Omtzigt to say more about this in his second term. A question from me that has not been answered in the first period, unless that happened when I left the Chamber for a moment, is about the timing of our own recovery plan with investments and reforms, as we, as the Netherlands, are going to submit to the Commission. I asked that in light of the fact that this cabinet will not have eternal life. The Prime Minister might want to, but at some point the cabinet will be decommissioned. So I was wondering what the timing of our own recovery plan is, given that the deadline is in a missionary period. You have heard that my colleague Van der Graaf has tabled a motion with Mr Sjoerdsma. I stand by my name under another motion by Mr Sjoerdsma. Everything has been said for this second term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u359	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Mr Van Raan has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u360	Thank you, Mr President. We supported the motion on the Prime Minister's failure. We have done so not only because the substance of this motion is correct, but because it is possible that new resources will be added to the budget, but also because the Prime Minister has failed. When it happened, he didn't have the sense to go back to the Chamber to discuss it. Furthermore, it will be no surprise that we supported and signed the motions on the situation in Camp Moria in order to help there as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u361	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to be able to hold the Prime Minister to a political agreement. That's why I'm expecting a path on how these single-limb CACs are run. This is not an effort obligation, but an obligation to achieve results. I assume that the agreement before us does not include an obligation to make an effort, but a commitment to achieve results. I'd like to receive a confirmation of that. This is not just an agreement we have made in Europe. Debt write-off should be possible. If we don't, we can come home from a cold carnival. I await with great interest the letters about the committee that is being set up, in which I hear clearly from the Prime Minister that things like an opt-out are also possible next time. The monetary and financial policies of the European Union and of these countries will have to be standardised. Let me just say it quite frankly: we are talking here about a relatively small problem with the recovery fund compared to what is happening at the moment at the European Central Bank. Buying up thousands of billions at the same time from public debt and from private companies, even from South African companies that go bankrupt after that, was never the ECB's intention. It may be that the Stability and Growth Pact does not apply temporarily, but somewhere we will have to go back to the 63% normality or something nearby. I hope that a good proposal can be made to a committee as a matter of urgency. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u363	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u364	Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group sees the importance of economic cooperation within the European Union. The DENK Group also sees the importance of cooperation in the field of politics within the European Union. The group of DENK is also convinced that a recovery fund is needed to fight corona, but in a way that there are sufficient guarantees that the funds will also be used for what they are intended for. The agreements we are hearing from the Prime Minister are so soft that we have little confidence in them. I gave a number of examples during the debate. I believe that political cooperation is particularly important to deal with one of the greatest tragedies, namely the refugee tragedy of recent years. Mr Nijboer has tabled a motion on this subject which can count on our signature. Mr. Chairman. I have one final point. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Greece intends to invest EU aid in defence expenditure;]] [[believes that hard-earned money from Dutch people is not intended to finance other people's wars;]] [[calls on the Government to pay aid to Greece only on condition that firm agreements are made on its use for non-military purposes;]] [[calls on the Government to demand through bilateral contacts and at the next EU summit that Greece does not use any kind of support money for military purposes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1588]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u365	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u366	Madam President. I am also speaking on behalf of my group colleague, Theo Hiddema, who, in order to emphasise the importance of this debate, has been sitting before the last part. We should not underestimate the importance of what is being discussed here today. I think that this is a moment we will often refer back to in the years to come. Just as with the euro or with the Marrakech immigration pact, people here take things with some anointing commonplaces through, often late at night, just before people go on holiday or in the middle of summer, a little from the idea: "Well, people will accept that a little bit like that, let that happen. At some point, the mortgage interest rate deduction will come back. Then people start working on that again. And then there's another scandal and they forget it again." But people don't forget this. We're losing our sovereignty. We are going to guarantee the debt of southern Europe. Brussels is gradually taking over our economic life. Political union from Brussels is becoming more and more formal. We can't let this pass. We will give our full support to the motion of censure which we have tabled together with Mr Wilders. We will do what we can to stop this debt union within the Chamber and beyond. By the way, I believe that Pieter Omtzigt has fallen mercilessly through the ice this evening because he has yet again reluctantly agreed, yet again turns out to be a cartelista instead of being the frame in the fur he pretends to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u367	Thank you. Then I'll look at the minister-pre... Oh, no, Mrs. Aukje de Vries. I call Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u368	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four short points as far as I'm concerned. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the clarity about European taxation in that it cannot be the case with this cabinet, which will be reluctant to operate on new own resources and can simply vote against it if it is not in line with what this Chamber wants. Then there's the rule of law. The Prime Minister indicated that, if there is a mouse hole, he wants to try to move it back in the right direction. I'd like to encourage him by saying, if that mouse hole is there, go for it! Then the emergency brake. That was a clear story, also that there can be firm action in it if needed. I understand that the Prime Minister does not like to use the term 'political crisis', but even that is not excluded. I did have a question about the background. At the moment when the Netherlands wants to attract this emergency brake, we will also have to make good the fact that these countries have not complied with the agreements. That's what you have to put manpower on to get it right. Mr Omtzigt said something about the single-limb CACs. That has indeed been discussed at length this morning. We also think that this is an important issue. I look forward to Minister Hoekstra's letter on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u369	Thank you, Mrs Aukje de Vries. There's a need for a 15-minute suspension, I understand. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u370	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u371	Mr President, thank you. A few things. First there were a few open issues that were there. What is the meaning of the European Council conclusions on rule of law? That was a question from Bram van Ojik van GroenLinks. It says: 'The European Council will soon return to this matter'. That process seems to be as follows. The German Presidency is preparing these conclusions of the European Council in the Rule of Law Regulation. They will come forward with an amended proposal in the short term. It's not exactly clear when. We are working behind the scenes to move the German Presidency with like-minded Member States in such a way that the implementation of the rule of law regulation is as ambitious as possible. We're gonna keep doing that. There are no guarantees, but we're doing the best we can. Negotiations are taking place on this modified proposal in the General Affairs Council and with the European Parliament. Once we get out of it, the text will come back to the European Council. That's what that sentence refers to. We will continue to inform the Chamber about progress. Then there is Mr Bruins' question. I did say something about that, but not completely, so I'm going to go into it. Are we gonna use that? We're exploring that right now. I can't anticipate that right now. It has not yet been decided, but it is obvious, of course, that we are looking very interested in a very substantial amount of money. The facility, the facility, is expected to enter into force on 1 January. From that moment on, Member States may formally apply. So we really still have time to look at that. That must have happened by 30 April at the latest. It may fall into the missionary period. At the same time, for this kind of thing, they must continue, I think, just as the cabinet will have to make a spring note, yes, Mr Wilders, this is how things are going to be done and the budget for 2022 will have to be put in place. So it would be nice if we could do it before the elections, but it could last until 30 April. Mrs De Vries asked a valid question, which I do not have a complete answer to: how do you make sure you know whether countries do? That is, of course, primarily up to the Commission, but we are also going to carry out our own analysis. We also have very good people at State and Finance to do that. Of course, we also have planning agencies that could help with that. Thanks to the combination of the fund and the instruments surrounding the fund, we now also have the tools to do so. But we will also really have to consider in practice whether this own bestaffin is sufficient in quality, that is certainly so great and how much work comes out of it. That is not entirely to be estimated, but it is quite clear to me that we need to make our own analysis alongside the analysis that ultimately comes from the Commission. Then I go to Mr Omtzigt's question about the single-limb collective action Clauses. I went into that a little bit further. This is the case with the Italian Parliament. They must now take that step in the end. The government has agreed, but it still has to go to the Italian parliament. I also made contact with the Minister of Finance just now during the break. This comes back to the debate on the Banking Union anyway. It's a very important point, for him and for me. I have already said it, but I will say it again: I will come back to it in writing, because we really need to see where it stands. We need to look very carefully at what we can do about it. So let there be no misunderstanding that we understand the signal from the Chamber. I feel the same way myself. I also discussed this with the Prime Minister of Italy. He also said to me at the time: "Yes, it is politically very complicated." Then I said, "Yes, that's interesting. I sometimes do, that things are politically complicated, but that also makes our jobs so fun. So take care of this." But this brings Hoekstra and I back to the exact state of affairs and the steps we can take. Then there are the motions, I think, apart from saying to Mr Wilders that I am here on behalf of the Netherlands. That was his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u372	About the question that came after the single-limb CACs. In the current agreement that is before us, I am not talking about an effort obligation, but about an overall result obligation for what is contained in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u373	What do you mean? Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u374	Well, at the CACs, you had it at some point... It was a political agreement, so that is an effort. I'm glad you're going after that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u375	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u376	The agreement we have here is an obligation to achieve results on the points contained in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u377	Yes. From the RRF, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u378	Yes. That is an obligation on the part of the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, who stands here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u379	I'd like to understand what I'm saying yes to, Mr. Ommzigt. On the single-limb CACs, I can't say here tonight that I'm going to force the Italian parliament to vote in favour. But I understand politics. I also agree with Mr Omtzigt; he knows this from me. The Minister of Finance shares this and we will come forward as soon as possible with further information on what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u380	I understand that, but it is about the current agreement, about the recovery fund and all the things that are in it, and about what you just said about performance and effort obligations. All the things we've discussed have a premier's obligation to deliver results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u381	Yes, of course. Sure. And if I can't deliver, I said at that point of emergency brake, there's a political crisis. No, I'm sure. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u382	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u383	All right, then Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u384	At least we are not, but we are with Europe. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u385	Of course, I do not formally dispute that the Prime Minister is there on behalf of the Netherlands, but in material terms he is. Let's get that straight. Because he stands up for everyone, except for the interests of the Dutch. But I have another question about the rule of law. That is not what we are talking about here. We are always talking about Poland and Hungary, but can you say again in your own words what you think a country like Hungary has done wrong? Then what are they doing wrong in the rule of law? I am not talking about Poland and how they deal with homosexuals. You can have an opinion on that, but I think that's pretty clear. But what exactly did Hungary do to justify your wanting to introduce, or advocating, this rule of law immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u386	Well, I didn't say that. I said that I find it difficult for Hungary to block it. Hungary and Poland were the countries which at the European Council blocked the initial text which we wanted to tighten up on that reversed qualified majority. That was not feasible anyway, I said last time, but also the text that was there, with a qualified majority, was blocked in that form by Hungary and Poland. It is not up to me now, but to the European Commission to discuss in detail in Article 7 procedures and so on where things go wrong. I think we have seen examples, anecdotal and sometimes more than anecdotal. Then it concerns the position of NGOs in Hungary or the position of... What? Indeed, I do not believe that it is very easy to set up a newspaper in Hungary that is Orbánunfriendly. But it's not for me to do that. In the European system it is the European Commission that ultimately keeps a country to the rule of law principles. The necessary procedures are in place through Article 7. I am not concerned that I should like to address Hungary at the moment to something concrete other than the current procedures. No, I note that Victor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, and also the Polish Government, in my view, are blocking a very reasonable text, which was already a compromise as set out in the draft conclusions of the European Council. I think that's serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u387	You are not only concerned with this, because you are saying in a few sub-sections by members of the Chamber that they are doing something with the free press and the media, and I know what it is all about. But what the hell is that all true? I know the country well, too. I know Prime Minister Orbán well, too. You can do all that. But that of the press, for example, is not entirely true. It is not the case that there could be no criticism of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u388	Not quite?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u389	But that's not really true. If you look at commercial television, there are two big channels. One of them is absolutely not Prime Minister-friendly. If you look at the Dutch press, it is more on the hand of the incumbent elite than it is in Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u390	That's not my perception.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u391	We shouldn't just talk to each other. I dispute that when it comes to the rule of law and the free press, of which I am very much in favour, Hungary or Prime Minister Orbán is violating the rules or values you call them. This is about more than just the fact that they blocked it. I understand that this is your formal point, but you say more. I would very much like that to be included, which is why they have blocked it, and that is why you are angry about the fact that we have an honest discussion about what they have done wrong, about whether they really have done so or not, about whether it is exaggerated or not, about whether you are right or perhaps I am right. I'd like more information on that. If that is not possible now, then later, because it is of course very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u392	But that is not something we do bilaterally or intergovernmentally in the European Union. We have the European Commission for that. We have a common treaty in Europe. The Treaty states that, in addition to a currency union and an economic union, Europe is also a value union. If the European Commission, as guardian of the Treaty, decides, and it has done so, that there are reasons for calling on countries to take part in those common values, then there are procedures for that and they are running. On the contrary, it is very good that Member States are then reluctant to comment on it, other than by encouraging the Commission to do so without having an opinion of its own in order to apply those procedures properly. These are complex procedures in which, ultimately, countries in the European Council are also able to stop decisions, sometimes with an almost maximum minority. So it is not up to me to philosophize freely here about what is good or not good in Hungary. It is my job to say in fact that my colleague from Hungary and my colleague from Poland have turned strongly against very calm texts that said: 'Hey, listen, the Commission must be able to respect the rule of law principles'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u393	Finally, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u394	Finally. Look, we may differ on this, even as political groups here and with the Prime Minister, but we must be able to have a debate on it. I remember a lot of groups saying before you went to the summit that it was very important that you deal with what is happening in Hungary and Poland because those countries are really doing things wrong. I think there was even a motion for a resolution on this. I believe that as a parliamentarians and leader of the largest opposition party, I should be able to hold a debate with the Prime Minister, even if it is with the Commission, on whether that is excessive or not. My point is that, of course, things are not going well there, but that it is greatly exaggerated what Hungary is being charged. I think I should be able to have a debate on this with you that goes beyond 'they're blocking it'. And if we can't do that now, we'll do it another time, but I want to be able to have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u395	Listen, the Chamber decides what debates are going on. The Members of Parliament can, of course, agree with each other on everything about the Member States. In my position, I think it is wise not to comment on the substance of what the Commission is still trying to do in relation to areas of the rule of law mechanisms other than to encourage the Commission to do so very carefully. Two. As soon as the conclusions of the European Council are discussed and they respect me, and therefore also the House of Representatives, I must ensure that those conclusions are as firm as possible. For I think it is important that countries should be able to adhere to these principles of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u396	We are now pretending that there is not much going on in Hungary. Let us say that if human rights organisations are simply banned by law, then that is something we can speak out on. But I just wanted to say here that we, as a parliament, wanted to talk to countries like Poland and Hungary in order to understand exactly what is happening there. And we were refused by the Hungarian Parliament. Prime Minister Orbán's party did not want to receive the Dutch parliament. Why? Because we were too critical about the country and the laws they made there. I wanted to mark that here anyway. It is not just something if we, even as representatives of the Netherlands who are interested in what is going on, want to enter into the conversation, but simply be refused.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u397	I'd still like to ask the Prime Minister to be a little sharper on this. Can he be more specific about what is happening in Hungary? To be honest, I am really talking about what Mr Wilders is saying here today, namely that things are going to be okay in Hungary, when the press is being banned, democracy is being dismantled and the rule of law is in ruins. But Mr Wilders says: it is actually going very well there; that is actually an example for our country. That's up to Mr. Wilders. He's allowed to walk around with a friendship pin from Russia himself. He may be Orbán's long arm here. I don't care. He may also ask the Prime Minister whether he represents the Netherlands. I say yes, the Prime Minister represents the Netherlands. But I do wonder whether Mr Wilders still represents the Netherlands. Or does he represent Russia or Hungary? And I ask the Prime Minister to be clear and say that what is happening in Hungary cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u398	We were actually doing some sort of rounding. I note that a new debate is now being opened. It's a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u399	Mr President, Mr Orbán...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u400	I'm looking at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u401	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u402	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u403	A brief answer. Mr Orbán expressed himself in the media as follows: what does Rutte have against Hungary, why does he hate us so much? That was his verdict. That was not because I congratulated him on the perfect functioning of Hungarian democracy and the rule of law. Only, I always want to be very precise. When I say concrete things about Hungary, I think I should first of all highlight the role of the Commission, which we should support, and secondly reject those conclusions by Hungary and Poland. Three. I do not want to freestyle unpreparedly on what is happening in Hungary. I have that anecdotal in my head, but I have to do it nicely. But the fact that Orbán quoted me in this way shows that things were going very well at the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u404	I suggest you move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u405	Mr Bishop asked when we could talk about the future of the European Union. My suggestion would be: in the debate on the State of the Union. That's very suitable for that. We have that once a year. And I'm waiting for other invitations from the Chamber. I'm always available to talk about that. The Cabinet shall deal with the State of the Union at least once a year. We then outline all the long-term aspects of the Union. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I believe that we have remained within the mandate. The motions on pieces No. 1578 and 1579 I'll just leave for a moment. The motion in part No. 1580: dissuade. We support the package that is now in place. The motion in part No. 1581: dissuade, simply because of the point that this is not feasible. A political agreement has been reached. I'll find the mouse hole. I already promised. What's on the table right now is not a perfect result. Once again, the mouse hole, the European Parliament and other things that are going on, such as the development of the proposals by the German Presidency, I have referred to it as 'we shall all seize it'. But this goes beyond the European Council conclusions. And then I would withdraw my support. I can't do that, but I think we're more materially in agreement. I would ask Mr van Ojik's motion on item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The motion in part No. 1583 I advise. We support the agreement. The motion in part No. 1584 I give judgment Chamber. I'd like to be clear about that. The Netherlands does what it can. We will continue to move forward with like-minded Member States. We continue to make every effort to this end, but in the end the process is working in such a way that the German Presidency comes up with an amended proposal. This is being negotiated in the General Affairs Council and with the European Parliament. I would like to make this point about this motion: 'Room of Justice'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u406	The Prime Minister asked me for the motion in part No. 1582. That is not necessary, because we agreed that this motion will be put to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u407	Sure, but I can't give the motion a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u408	I would like to hear a written opinion on that motion in the course of tomorrow's cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u409	There's a general meeting with the Secretary of State tomorrow, isn't there? That's what she can give there, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u410	It's possible. I've filed the motion now, and I'll put it to the vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u411	Okay, but I'm not going to comment on a debate tomorrow. That's my point. These motions are ahead of a debate that still needs to be held. Anyway, I'm not in charge of procedure. I'm not saying anything about it right now. Tomorrow there will be a debate with Secretary of State Broekers-Knol. I think she should comment on that motion. There is another motion on children on the islands, namely those in part No. 1586. That's the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u412	Mr Van Ojik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u413	I myself requested that tomorrow's debate be held, so I know that, but the motion for a resolution does not prejudge anything. The motion calls for a ruling from the Chamber on an assignment to the government on the basis of the debate we have had this evening. I can't force the Prime Minister to say something about that now. If he says "I don't" I'll ask the Secretary of State tomorrow what she thinks, but the motion is not going to get ahead of anything. It is simply a consequence of the debate that has taken place this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u414	When I came here, I saw: debate with a look back at the European Council. Of course there is the topicality of the terrible events in Greece. As a general discussion is scheduled for tomorrow, I thought: taking note of the remarks from the Chamber, I can express myself in a general sense about the terrible situation in Greece, but more politically refer to tomorrow's general consultation. The motions on the documents Nos. In my view, 1582 and 1586 respect that general consultation. So I do not think it is unreasonable to say: would it not be wise to ask the Secretary of State for Justice to say something about this tomorrow? I see you're gonna do that. Then the motion to part No. 1585 of Sjoerdsma. It's about Horizon Europe. If I may explain the motion in such a way that I would support an increase in the budget if it followed from the negotiations between the Presidency and the European Parliament, then I can support it, because that is in line with the Dutch commitment. But then it is important that this does not lead to an increase in the overall budget. If I may explain the motion in this way, as far as I'm concerned, it's Court of Justice. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). As far as I'm concerned, that judgment gets Chamber. In the debate I mentioned that the government does not now have all the information to answer the question. It is therefore not yet clear whether it will be possible on 1 November. In fact, it now seems that the Commission's first reports on the basis of which such schemes are actually going to be made are there for the second half of next year. I'll have to add that. Subject to these remarks, I can give Chambers in the spirit of this debate. The motion in part No. 1588: dissuade. It's a story we can't verify. I don't have any information about it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u415	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u416	A motion of censure has been tabled. It is customary to vote on it immediately. Is everyone okay with that? We could vote on the other motions on the 22nd.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u417	I would like to comment on the motion in part No. 1578, my second motion, would also like to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u418	What motion do you wish to vote on, Mrs Leijten? The second motion? Sorry, I didn't quite get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u419	My second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u420	Okay. Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u421	For the sake of clarity, like Mr Van Ojik, I would like to speak tomorrow on the motion for a resolution on item No. 1586 votes. We have already discussed this during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u422	Good. We shall now vote on the motion of censure. Am I going to suspend for a few minutes, or is there a need for a longer suspension? Ten minutes? I hear five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u423	I think one minute is enough. Are we voting on Mrs Leijten's motion or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u424	Yes, that's the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u425	I understand. You said we were going to vote on the motion of censure. This is not entirely a vote of no confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u426	It is about Mrs Leijten's motion, if everyone agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u427	Those are the motions on part Nos. 1578 and 1579. Agreed. As far as we are concerned, we can vote equally.
