ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u1	This debate is about the developments surrounding the coronavirus. We maintain the same order of speakers as last week. I shall begin with Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I feel like we're moving into a different phase. First we read in the newspaper personal portraits of the first people who were infected and had to go to the hospital in quarantine or even in quarantine. Now we read every day at 2:00 p.m., also just now, all the dead in a grade. Since the last time the Chamber debated this, there have been 78, 112, 93, 132, 93, 175 and 134. These are abstract numbers behind which hundreds of tragic stories hide and lost loved ones from whom the family could not normally say goodbye. As the virus spreads, it also gets closer in our daily lives. The dear niece of a colleague, who unfortunately didn't make it. Another colleague who last weeks in a protective suit had to leave her brother, young in the bloom of his life, in artificial sleep on the ic, hoping for a reunion. A buddy who returned from the winter sports was sick, wasn't allowed to stay with his own family for weeks, had distressed nights and has been wondering for days now whether that pinching feeling in his lungs is ever going away. Older people and vulnerable people who are afraid to be affected. Grandpas and grandmothers who must miss their grandchildren's hugs. Employees in home care who ask citymates over the internet if they still have disinfectant gel, so that they can do their job a little safer. Carers who are no longer able to reach their vulnerable family members or take extra care because the daily spending is close. People who are now reading and hearing about the capacity in the hospital. Are there or aren't there enough places in intensive care? Do all the hospitals have enough cooperation? Do they send hard enough for that in The Hague? Are there enough ventilators? When exactly did they call the manufacturers? What about the number of days someone spends on the ICU on average? Do they really do anything to get mouth caps and other protective equipment? Then why was there stuff in between that didn't turn out right? When people get rid of the ic and the corona is over, how are they? Are they gonna be okay? What is being done now to ensure that they can be rehabilitated? These are questions that many people have and they want an answer to. I would ask the Cabinet to respond to this as far as possible today. Mr. Chairman. Together with all the Dutch, we adhere to the regulations to slow down the rate of spread of the virus. Very carefully, that seems to be heading in the right direction. But that doesn't mean that everything can get back to normal soon. Because the fact that things are getting better is precisely because we strictly adhere to those rules and it only works if we continue to do so. I also read the first calls for measures to be taken more quickly for the economy. But public health is paramount. First comes the approach to the virus. Only in there can we see which activity and movement space can be there again. Now, above all, we must do everything we can to get the support we have promised to entrepreneurs in the right place in time. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of uncertainty. That's inevitable. I am pleased that our experts and the cabinet are not trying to bluff it over or take it away with definite false certainty, but that things are constantly being adjusted when there are new insights. We have to keep that open mind. That's what I'm asking the Cabinet. Finally, I would like to thank people. Of course the heroes in care, but also the people who take care of our food, all the teachers who make the best of it remotely, the technicians who make sure that we can mass video meetings, appetizers and occasionally Netflixen, the children who surprise their grandmother and grandmother with a sidewalk drawing in front of the flat, people who put bears in front of the window, so that children outside have some fun when they get a fresh nose, the people who make extra effort to buy from their local entrepreneurs and anyone in the Netherlands who can stick the whole family, including themselves, sometimes behind the wallpaper, but stays wisely at home and makes the best of it. All these things make me feel hopeful and make us proud of all those beautiful Dutch people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I see that Mr Asscher has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u4	It is nice to see Mr Dijkhoff back here with us. Nice speech! He says we're entering a new phase. This morning we heard from the technical briefing that perhaps next week we will be in a phase where we all do not want to end up, namely code black or the crisis phase, because there are too few intensive care beds. At the moment, miracles are being carried out. The scaling goes incredibly fast; a lot of admiration for that. I ask whether the VVD agrees with me that we should now ask the cabinet to come up with a scenario to increase capacity even further, above that 2,400. It didn't seem possible last week, but maybe it's necessary. Does the VVD agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u5	Yeah, I just think we should be realistic with what that capacity is. If I understand correctly, I think you're going to be at a stage where, for example, you have more places and beds with ventilation, but some of them don't have the standards we're used to on ic, not just in terms of equipment and beds, but also in terms of the people, the caregivers, who have to be there and the resources you all need. If you solve one thing, you'll get a new bottleneck over and over again. So yes, I think we should prepare for even higher capacity very intensive care. Then we need to look closely with the specialists to see to what extent you can expand with the current standards or that you need to do more creative solutions that fit a crisis atmosphere. In this way, the level per bed may fall slightly, but more attention can generally be given to serious cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u6	I am very pleased with this answer. I think Mr Dijkhoff is right to say that this would require compromises. That's what Gommers said this morning. Nevertheless, we must ask the Cabinet to move towards the 3,000 beds, with all the ifs and buts, because perhaps next week we will be at that stage. We don't want to go to the disaster triage, to code black, so thank you for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is good that Mr Dijkhoff is back between us. Mr Dijkhoff spoke about heroes when he talked about people in health care. That's what several people have done; so have I. In an evening newspaper, the NRC, a few days ago there was a piece about French care staff, in which a nurse said: don't call us heroes, rather invest. That was, of course, not a message to Prime Minister Rutte, but to President Macron. But that is also true here. Of course, the people who work in care are all heroes, but they may be more interested in you, your party, investing money in care than they are called heroes. You have done the opposite in recent years. I am not going to blame you for the crisis, because that would go too far, but it is true that we are now in more trouble, because in recent years we have systematically struck the staff, the hospitals and the care sector. Would it not be better for the VVD to learn that we are not going to do so in future, so that we are not going to cut back on healthcare, but are going to invest extra in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u9	What's most pressing now is medical-specialist care. There's now compared to 2010 when you take a period of ten years.. more money and more staff. But of course that is not enough to deal with this. This is normally not taken into account. We have been investing again in recent years, especially in care for the elderly, because things have improved economically. As far as I am concerned, you would normally have continued that path and in the next election campaign you would not have fought for cuts in care; only, there is now another economic crisis. I agree with Mr Wilders. I understand that people have little use for the word "heroes" and now say: stay at home and follow the rules. After this, of course, we need to look at which bottlenecks you want to permanently remove, should anything like this ever happen again. And you should also see where the rack really came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u10	Sure, but you did. You did... At least that was done under your political responsibility. Of course, you have not done so yourself, but you have been partly responsible for the closure of hospitals in Flevoland, here in The Hague and elsewhere in the country. Hospitals are closed. You have signed a government agreement which, even now, saves about 2 billion, 1.97 billion on curative care, hospital care. You invest in the care of the elderly and in the nursing homes, but you take that money away from the hospitals. In the longer term, as I said to your colleague last week, it is on page 13 of the budget, and you want to see a lot more helping people at home and you want to close even more hospitals. Doesn't that turn out to be very unwise choices? Doesn't it turn out that in a situation like this, we should have enough people, enough hospitals, maybe we should open up more hospitals, but certainly not shut down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u11	They weren't choices of luxury anyway. They were choices in scarcity. And it was choices that were mainly aimed at slowing down the rise in healthcare costs. Because more and more money goes to health care, not less. But there is also an increasing need for care and a different kind of care, also because of the ageing of our country. So you have to keep looking at the question: how much hospital capacity do you need and how much elderly care do you need? But if the hospitals mentioned by Mr Wilders had been open, we would not have been in another phase of crisis building, the expansion of beds or the ordering of protective equipment and ventilation equipment. That would not have put us in a different situation for today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you. Then we will wait a moment before I give the floor to Mr Wilders. I call Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you, Madam President. The corona virus is a persistent and aggressive virus that unfortunately no one in the world has any control over. That makes people insecure, even fearful. They are uncertain about their future, about their jobs, about their health, and they are uncertain about their families. And how do we get out of here, Mr. Chairman? We get out by being decisive in the fight, but also by being honest about the problems. It is wise that the cabinet has decided to extend the measures. It is now important to continue and to limit the further spread of the virus as much as possible. Although everyone naturally tries to stick to the cautious optimistic stories about flattening growth rates, the daily reality is still pitch black: 1,173 deaths and 5.159 corona patients in the hospital. Real people of flesh and blood, with family and friends. And isn't that flattening also explained by the very minimal testing? We hear from general practitioners that people who, in the home situation, are likely to die from the virus but have not been tested are not registered as coronados. Is that right? Mr. Chairman. The bitter reality is that there are chronic shortages of just about everything that care needs right now. There is a shortage of care personnel, of protective equipment, of ventilation equipment, of ic-beds and even of medicines. The harsh reality is also that if not so fanatically cut down on hospitals, if the Slotervaart hospital and the hospital in Lelystad weren't closed, if the Bronovo Hospital hadn't closed, we would have been better off. If we had not fired 75,000 healthcare workers, if we had not spent billions on asylum seekers, but if that money had been invested in care, then the crisis really would have been less true now. Now people are experiencing what years of austerity and bad preparations for a crisis mean to them. Ice beds need to be realized head-on. Ic employees shouldn't be helping two, but three or even four patients. Doctors and nurses themselves become ill because of the lack of protective equipment. Caregivers in home care, in nursing homes and in disability care are often still short of mouth caps. I ask the Prime Minister: when will this finally be dealt with for these people? Mr. Chairman. After yet another misjudgement by the RIVM it now appears that 2,400 ic-beds are already needed next Sunday. And the weeks after that, probably a lot more. How's the cabinet gonna take care of those Ice Beds? And what if it doesn't work? What if those ic's overflowing? That answer is cruel, I know, because then there will be no room, not for a 87-year-old, not for a 57-year-old, nor for a 17-year-old. Let that work on you for a moment! Mr. Chairman. Older people who are not sick have been called last week saying that there will be no place for them in intensive care if they get corona and get seriously ill. Terrifying conversations, that's how these people tell us. They were often not even asked what they wanted, but they were bluntly told that they wouldn't get a bed in the hospital, but at home with ventilator and medication should be sick or even die. I think that's inappropriate. It even gives me goosebumps. I'm asking that Prime Minister to stop this kind of practice. Mr. Chairman. There is also a great deal of suffering in non-corona patients. Their treatment in the hospital is often delayed. People at home are in pain. What is the Prime Minister's message to these people? What perspective can he offer them? Mr. Chairman. Nor do I understand why aircraft from countries such as America, and especially New York, the new epicentre of the pandemic, can still land in the Netherlands. How is it that aircraft from New York still land in the Netherlands? Is the Cabinet prepared to stop airplanes from these countries and other fireplaces from landing here? Mr President, I will conclude. I wish all those who work in care and fight every day and night with passion and commitment for human lives, the very best in the world. To all the people at home, I say, hang in there, please, hang in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then we'll just wait a minute. Mr Pieter Heerma has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mr. Chairman. Corona has given the Netherlands two very different faces. In the care are overtime, people and resources are in the red to cope with the crisis, there are stories of sadness and personal drama and the pressure and crowds are enormous. At the same time, there's that other face. We see a society and an economy that has almost come to a standstill: empty streets, closed shutters, people sitting at home massively, sometimes lonely and alone. It is precisely the contrast between these two faces that makes this crisis even more confronting. The extension of the strict measures announced yesterday is justified, but it also requires stamina from all of us. The RIVM and colleague Wilders concluded with: hang in there. That's the job for all of us. I think that the appeal was rightly made to Dutch people not to go on holiday at Easter and during the May holidays. However, I also saw in the OMT opinion the question: what to do with German tourists, for example, who might come here? I also get all kinds of sounds from coastal communities with worries about that. What will the cabinet do to prevent these large numbers from coming to the Netherlands? Is it being considered, for example, to work with border controls on Easter weekends in order to prevent this? And why hasn't anything been decided about running out of fireplaces like New York? Mr Wilders just asked about it. We ask Dutch people very much: to stay at home, not to go on vacation. But is it not wise to do a screening or even to see if people should not stay in quarantine when they get out of such a plane? So I'd like to get a more detailed explanation of why nothing happens to those flights. Upcoming weekend, the weather forecasts are very good. Sunday's gonna be 20°C. Will the communication to maintain compliance, which is also addressed in the letter, be intensified at that time, as it happened last weekend around the NL-Alert? In this way, even when the weather is very nice, people can be prevented from flocking to places to enjoy themselves. I also read in the letter that influencers are going to be used for communication aimed at young people. It is precisely because there are still signals about young people, which show that they are meeting, that I wonder at what time and how this is going to happen, because this can help to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u16	I have a brief question about that communication. My party, too, is concerned about that. It is not clear to me now, and I wonder if it is clear to Mr Heerma. On the one hand, Minister Grapperhaus says: stay home as much as possible; if you have to post an envelope, of course. But on the other hand, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs says: go shopping. It is not clear to me at this point what exactly is the message from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u17	Perhaps this way, in the first instance, the cabinet will be able to make it quite clear once again; this happened yesterday in the press conference. Staying home is important. You can also often stimulate your local economy from home. But I also have questions that go beyond communication but also have to do with measures, such as the Germans coming here and around the flights. I am certainly also interested in additional communication as with those influencers, as announced. I am still getting signals that young people are still meeting in certain neighbourhoods in places and compliance is still too limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u18	For clarity: we support the CDA's call for clear communication and, above all, for more communication when you see that certain groups are not being reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you. In fact, I found yesterday's press conference, when it comes to clarity, in many respects an improvement on last week's figures. "Doing so one learns" also applies in crisis situations. We can see it's incredibly exciting on the ICUs. Last week, we were all talking about this. Would 1,600 be feasible? Now we're at 1,900. By the end of this week, we're gonna have to, but we're gonna be sitting on 2,400 beds. But there was also talk of blacker scenarios, including in the technical briefing. Mr Asscher just asked about this. What is being done to prevent that? And what has been done with the OMT's opinion last Monday that coordination from the LCPS should be further strengthened? 'Cause that's what's in there. In addition, the development of tests. It is a huge movement that has been made there: from 4,000 tests a day we go to 17,500 and 29,000. That's a matter of two, three weeks. That is good and necessary, but I also believe that there is still a need for additional coordination on protective equipment and on whether we have enough medicines, which was also the subject of yesterday's letter. Does the Cabinet intend, if necessary, to look at an additional legal instrument, which we discussed last week in relation to testing? Mr President, I will conclude, because I see that my time is running out. When it comes to a vaccine, this is very important. It's a global interest. This is discussed at the end of the letter. Except there's a phrase there that alienated me. It says that it is a good thing that the cabinet is considering using additional resources for the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. But it's not good that you're considering it, it's okay if you do it. Here is the government's commitment not to consider it, but that this is going to happen to contribute internationally to the vaccine. My conclusion, Mr. Chairman. It is difficult to imagine now, but the two faces of this crisis are going to change. When the pressure on the ic's begins to decrease, the question of how society and the economy will be restarted will become more and more important. We read that exit strategies are being considered. Can the cabinet indicate the scenarios for this and what role the serological tests will play in getting the country started again? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr. Chairman. "Beyond the start, but not yet at the end of the beginning." That's how Prime Minister Rutte spoke at the press conference last night. He was inspired by the words of Winston Churchill in 1942. Churchill was saving civilization back then. He knew it was gonna take a while. Of course, the situation is different now, but I can imagine somewhere that the Prime Minister was thinking about him. Because like then, we count the dead every day. Behind each figure a heartbreaking human drama: Grandpa can no longer look into his eyes, your mother can no longer hold on and the unbearable fear of having to die alone. For a steadily growing number of Dutch people, that nightmare has become an unfathomable reality. Of course, it is not a war now, but, like then, civilisation is at stake and, in particular, its core value: solidarity. It is out of solidarity that we Dutch follow the strict rules and that we take into account the doctors and nurses, who are already being flooded by people fighting for their lives in intensive care. I would therefore like to know from the cabinet: can we trust that there will be enough ICU beds for everyone? And if we don't, what do we do? That's just the safety net for intensive care. What can we do to relieve the safety net? Germany is testing much more than the Netherlands. That's how they stop killing there. We're heading for 29,000 tests a day by now. That is a step in the right direction, but I ask the Minister: is it enough? Don't we want to test a lot more? And if we can do that, do we choose the kind of policy South Korea is so successful with, which is to test everyone massively? Mr. Chairman. It is out of solidarity that while the economy is on its way, Dutch people continue to buy books, flowers and sandwiches from the local entrepreneur on the corner, that we pay for music lessons and sports subscriptions and that we do not ask for money for cancelled performances and concerts. But if Dutch people do and can do so, can the cabinet guarantee that no entrepreneur, self-employed or artist will fall merely because of this crisis? Because isn't protecting everything that makes life beautiful and precious the core of what civilization is? Mr. Chairman. It is also out of solidarity that hospitals, provinces and countries help each other: Groningen helps Brabant, France helps Italy and Germany helps the Netherlands. Where one can't handle it, the other takes over. This solidarity must also show the Netherlands in Europe. Now that the coffins are being driven down the streets, we must help our friends, completely and unconditionally. This cabinet has got off on the wrong foot by the Minister of Finance and recovery is needed, otherwise Europe's idea will be put at risk. Restoration requires humility. I would therefore like to congratulate the Minister for carefully adjusting his leg in front of the cameras yesterday. His recognition of the lack of empathy can now be the beginning of a substantive change. I ask the Prime Minister: what does this change look like? Finally, Mr President. If you weren't careful, you'd say that this crisis has focused people on the national and on their own, but if you dig a little deeper, you actually see the opposite. Basic human values that are central everywhere: empathy, caring, responsibility, but above all solidarity. We will need it for a long time, because we may be past the start, but not yet at the end of the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u22	On solidarity... we saw that Minister Koolmees has made an appeal to large companies not to pay dividends if that is not necessary. I was wondering whether the moral appeal should not simply be recorded as a rule that we will not help companies that pay dividends, with a reduction in working hours, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u23	Above all, I see a lot of companies that have followed not only the call of Minister Koolmees, but also calls from other people immediately. Among other things, the large banks which have learned something from the previous crisis and which are not now paying dividends. So I would like to join you here in appealing to all the companies: if you call on that great economic support package of the cabinet set up in such a short time, then keep your employees in service, pay those wages, so that income and jobs are guaranteed, but also make sure that dividend is not paid out for the time being. So I would like to stick to that call for the moment, because a lot of companies are sticking to it as well. Should we see that this is not the case in the near future, then the cabinet should simply consider looking: can I go further into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u24	Fine, thank you. And is D66 the same when it comes to, for example, the banks that were saved by the citizens at the time and which now, if you are red, are asking for very high interest rates? Couldn't we also ask: don't do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u25	I do not think that is what we advocated in last week's debate, but the week before that I and Mr Hijink also advocate it. At that time, we advocated: at least avoid house expulsions, gas, water, light, internet and telecoms closures. So I would like to make that appeal very broad to all the companies that provide services: have an eye for the weak in society that may not be able to handle paying these bills or the mortgage right now. Then don't go immediately, as you might do outside this corona crisis, for the toughest measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Oh, Mr Azarkan has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u27	I have a question about the package of measures for entrepreneurs. I think that this is a good package and that it is widely worn that it is wise that we do so. However, I can see that there are signs of taxi drivers and market merchants, among others, saying: we are even prepared to demonstrate because we feel unfairly treated. I put the question to Mr Hoekstra during the WHO. Then I got the impression that taxi drivers are eligible for this. That's not true. Is Mr Jetten prepared to support my motion to accommodate taxi drivers and merchants from the scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u28	I have to see the motion first, but I myself have noticed over the past week that we have put in place that support package in no time for entrepreneurs, but also forzzp'ers. Then Minister Hoekstra, Minister Wiebes and Minister Koolmees warned all three that we are doing it now in such a hurry that it will not go well in one go. Perhaps the application is just too complicated or there will be sectors and branches that are initially excluded. They have said: if necessary, we will be more generous in that and we will also open those arrangements to other parties. We saw that happening last weekend for shopkeepers, who were right to ring the bell because they also see their income fall enormously because fewer people go shopping. Over the last few days I have received emails from taxi drivers and from makers from the arts and culture sector, who are mainly confronted with the uncertainty that had arisen over 6 April versus 1 June. I have therefore already asked the Prime Minister in the debate last week how the cabinet can respond to these new developments in the coming weeks, especially if the measures take longer. I would therefore like to pass your question on to the cabinet. How is the cabinet going to find a solution for those sectors that are now knocking on your door because they find that they cannot use the economic aid package, when they really need it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u29	I will certainly ask that question and I know that route all too well, but that is a little bit off. My question is whether D66 and Mr Jetten are in favour of these taxi drivers and others - he mentioned some of them himself - being able to make use of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u30	Yes, I think, in principle, that the cabinet should look at how to help all sectors affected by the corona crisis in their turnover. I would like to add the warning that I think it would be very complicated if we were to set up a tailor-made scheme for everyone. So we need to see how the economic aid package that is in place can be widened and opened up to those who are not yet able to make use of it. Because that is the warning we have received from Minister Koolmees and Minister Hoekstra: if they have to make a lot of separate arrangements, implementation can be difficult and we cannot pay out in time to the people who need it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u31	However, let me make a correction: it is not a question of making up a new approach. The point is that the SBI code that affects affected people is simply not included at the right point of contact. That's all we're asking. It is therefore the same scheme, but it simply does not qualify for it. I think that Mr Jetten now agrees with me that it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr Klaver has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr President, thank you. I look with great admiration at the way in which the concern tackles this major crisis, how in the short term they manage to give so many people the care they need. With such admiration I also watched the briefing this morning. You can see how lucky we are in the Netherlands with such professionals, civil servants, health care people who keep this country running and try to make it healthy again. The main thing about this briefing is how alarming the message is. On the one hand, RIVM indicates that the number of people who will enter intensive care will rise in the near future to over 2,400 beds. On the other hand, Mr Gommers of the association of ic-doctors actually indicates that we can't handle that, that we'll be in a code black. If you're gonna let me know that we might be there next weekend, it's gonna be really intense. With that briefing in mind, I have just read something else about the OMT's advice this morning. That opinion states, and I quote literally: "Because of the above, the OMT does not yet see any benefit from setting up a total lockdown." Let me be clear: I have never argued for a total lockdown in this crisis, and I will not do that now either. That is why I do not think the way it is described here is correct either. The question is what additional steps we may be able to take, within the current measures we are taking, to ensure that there are fewer infections and that fewer people come into intensive care. I understand very well that RIVM is looking at the number of infections. That number's already going down. That R's going down under one. Statistically, every additional step may not be very significant. But if we can stop ten more people from getting to an ICU, then I think we should take those steps. That is why I have a number of very specific questions to ask why the cabinet is not going to do so. The first question is about the holidays and the holiday parks. Shouldn't we just ban people from going on vacation during the May holidays and Easter holidays? I also agree with the questions about foreign tourists. Shouldn't we also take the private rental through Airbnb? I wonder how we're dealing with all those repatriates. I am glad that there are still flights to the Netherlands, that Dutch people can come back to the Netherlands, but these people should at least be checked and perhaps they should be required in home quarantine. And then there are still religious meetings where up to 30 people can meet. Shouldn't we ban these meetings, too? And yes, there are also restrictions on how many people you can walk on the street with. But in Germany, they're just going one step further: up to two people outside. Maybe that's even clearer, so we can limit the number of infections and people coming into intensive care, even if there are only dozens of them. It is also really time to make sure that more people can use German ic-beds. There's still capacity. How's that going? In the letter I read that two people have now been taken over by Germany, but that should actually be more. Mr. Chairman. If we now look at the measures until 28 April, then we must also have the courage to think about the time after that. The one-and-a-half-meter society may be a fact for next year. How can we continue to function? I have two very important questions. The very first one is about education. I understand very well, and I also agree, that we have also extended the measures for education. But there are children with enormous deficits, who are only getting bigger. What consultation is taking place with teachers and with schools to draw up a plan, so that we can at least reduce the backlog of these children as quickly as possible? Secondly, I have a question about the medication. There's a big problem with the amounts of medication. Now it wants to be that we in the Netherlands have almost no capacity to produce medicines. There is another factory in Leiden that makes generic medicines, but the board has indicated that it wants to close them by September. What's the Cabinet gonna do to keep this factory open anyway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u36	Thank you. It's a foot and a half, exactly. Well, I didn't. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u37	Thank you, Mr President. When I was standing here last week, I told you about the impact of the corona virus I saw in my own Brabant. The undertaker who orders twice as many cases as usual, the general practitioner who normally has one death every week and now one per day. We also have serious concerns about the ic capacity. That's been mentioned a few times, now it turns out we don't have two months to expand to those 2,400 ic-beds, but only a few days. How did it happen that our calculation models failed us in this respect? Another question is about the ventilation equipment. Philips' top man told me it was only two weeks ago that the ventilator was ordered. Is that right, and why so late? We get reports from people working in hospitals that the first part of the ventilator provided is not suitable for use in intensive care. Is that right, and if so, how is that possible? Then the situation in the nursing homes. That's what we're really worried about. People are having a hard time. Carers, family members are no longer allowed to visit, everything now rests on the shoulders of the carers. Too often, even in other areas of care, they have to do their work unprotected and unsafe, because there are not enough protective materials. So once again the question to the cabinet: is it now inventoried what is still available in other sectors, such as defence, but also in other places, in order to be able to use it to protect our caregivers? We also have questions about mortality rates. Brabant general practitioners indicate that they see a multitude of deaths than is reported in the corona figures. That's because a lot of people don't get tested, even after they die. Corona complaints, not tested, which is why they are not included in the corona statistics. I also understand that keeping those statistics up-to-date is not the top priority right now, because that is obviously saving people's lives. Do we have an adequate map of the scale of this disaster? Can we really make the right decisions on the basis of these figures? Then, chairman: that the corona virus intervenes in everyone's life, I think everyone can talk about that. We started a hotline last week as SP. Last week alone, a thousand people have reported to us who have been in acute trouble as a result of this crisis. We also see that the contradictions that were already present in our society are deepened by this corona crisis. For example, take flex workers, people with insecure contracts. Yesterday's figures show that up to 100,000 people are likely to have lost their jobs as a result of this crisis. But also take, for example, the cleaners, the security guards; people who are currently simply working. They can't work safely at home. No, they're expected to keep working and keep our society and economy running, often for a minimum salary. And what do these people see? These people see a cabinet that wants to give tax money, which wants to give state aid to companies that do not need that support. And at the same time, workers,zzp'ers and small entrepreneurs are getting into a lot of trouble: now, because of this crisis. That's unfair. We also heard that Minister Koolmees made a moral appeal to these big companies yesterday. He says: if you do not really need state aid, do not rely on it. But that does not go far enough, of course, and that is totally inadequate. The hard condition for this state aid must, of course, be that companies that make large profits use those profits in times of crisis; now, therefore, because it is a crisis. So now we may be spending taxpayers' money in large companies, while those companies are going to pay that money as a dividend to their shareholders at a later date. We have to prevent that, don't we? We can't let that happen, can we? A company that has plenty of money to pay off its shareholders also has plenty of money to pay its staff. I would ask the Prime Minister to respond to that. Mr President, I will conclude. We're in a huge public health crisis right now. We must and we will defeat the coronavirus. But when this crisis is over, it is high time to re-evaluate our public sector and an economy that works for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you, Mr President. People are being tested in an incredible way at the moment: if they are ill, if they have people in their environment who are sick, because they have to do their job in a different way and still continue to help others. I have a great deal of appreciation for that and this must also mean something for how we deal with these people. This appreciation also extends to the people who are fighting this crisis on our behalf. We are really going to talk about what happened too late and what could otherwise have happened; that will all be dealt with by itself. I believe that we should concentrate on what we can do today to ensure that things go as well as possible in the coming weeks and months. One of the important issues involved is testing. We see an increase in test capacity and a change in test policy. We support that, and I think that's very good. But I do not understand very well why many of these laboratories indicate that they are not using their full capacity now. And I would like to hear from the cabinet when we can also use that serological test capacity on a large scale, so those blood tests that can be used to see if people have become immune. A week ago, it seems like a month ago, we were talking about the most worrying point, namely the fact that we are seeing the end of the Dutch ic-capacity. Where we were worried about 1,600 ic-beds, there must be 2,400 on Sunday. And if you're listening to this morning's briefing properly, chances are we're gonna go over that. That's what my questions are about. Is the Cabinet prepared to order now to extend our ic capacity to 3,000 beds? I realize that what seems unthinkable today may be necessary next week. Is the cabinet prepared to identify the possibilities for extending the regular care that needs to be found around it? I was just talking to Mr Dijkhoff about that. I believe that we should also indicate this now, given the speed with which it is going. Can the cabinet indicate how the decision..... is taken that is a ministerial decision.. to move to that crisis phase of "code black'? On the basis of what advice? Who gives that advice? And what does it mean, not only for access to ic-beds, but also for access to regular care? And does the government agree that today and in the next few days we must do everything we can to extend the scaling-up phase, the yellow phase, the expansion, and to continue to give care to all Dutch people who need it as much as possible? Is the cabinet also prepared to look further than at the moment towards exchange with countries that still have capacity? Germany was mentioned in this context by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten, if I have heard correctly. Mr. Chairman. If the Minister decides on such a crisis phase, how and on what basis will it be determined when we will get out of it? And what does that mean? Is that right for the whole country, or is that for regional hospitals, where the crisis phase and disaster triage are used in this way? Mr. Chairman. Is the Cabinet prepared to work on expanding emergency hospitals? I know there are initiatives to move corona patients elsewhere. How are the plans coming along? In the earlier phase, Gommers spoke on behalf of the Association of Intensivists about an extension to 3,000, using sports facilities. What's going on with these plans? Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party supports the extension of the measures, but if we already feel that we are in that situation for a long time now, what does that mean for all those people who are deeply affected by them? So we shouldn't see that lightly. Mr. Chairman. I also agree with the words of the cabinet asking for each other's support, solidarity and a helping hand. In this light, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that he is taking the initiative to help and restart the European economy, to help other countries, and to make it clear here in this Parliament that the suggestion 'let us examine why these poor other countries have so few buffers' is not helpful, but rather to show that the Netherlands, as one of the founders of the European Union, wants to take the lead in providing solidarity and providing assistance in its own country and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u41	Thank you, Madam President. If something bad happens to people, for example, fire in the house or a pile-up in traffic, people can look at each other and say, "Luckily we still have each other." Because what you have together is more important than a house or a car. Even now a lot is missing: work, school, shopping, a handshake, a hug. It is all the more beautiful to look around us now, to see how much solidarity, sense of responsibility, creativity and charity there are and now to be able to say to each other: fortunately we still have each other. Only together will we get control of the corona virus; I'll repeat that to the cabinet. But the sad thing about this period is that we have to miss more and more people: people who are very sick, people who die. I wish everyone who has in his or her neighborhood with that has so much strength. I would like to thank the cabinet for its response to the crisis and for its clear communication since last week. I have some questions. One: the cabinet hopes for group immunity, but when and how do we know if we are on the right track in this respect? Two: there is a man-and-power purchase of protective equipment, but does this protective clothing also benefit people who work in nursing homes, disability care and ggz, for example? Three: I agree with Mr Heerma's questions about people coming from elsewhere to the Netherlands, for example the control of Schiphol as people from New York land here. I hope there are good opportunities for that. And how do we prevent tourism from Germany during the Easter weekend, for example? Four: I would like to thank the Cabinet for the extra attention paid to homeless people and the directive put forward by Secretary of State Blokhuis last Friday, but how do we ensure that there is not only good night care, but also good day care? And can we use now empty churches, schools and ready-to-use volunteers? Five: we're getting alternate signals from people who can't or can't say goodbye to their loved ones who are going to die. There are hospitals that give room for that, for example by setting up a kind of hospice in a hotel nearby, but I also hear stories of people who can't say goodbye at all. I understand that hospitals are very conscientious about this, also in view of the health risks, but is there any way to help hospitals and family members? Six: many vulnerable people are now in a hospital or in a lockdown in a nursing home. They sometimes struggle with existential questions, but have little access to spiritual care. Can we give more space to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u42	Before you continue, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u43	I can also imagine that Mr Segers would like to finish his list before I interrupt. That might make more sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u44	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u45	I do have three more questions. It is good that Minister Slob is committed to taking good care of children who need extra attention or for whom the home is not safe and for children who go to special education. Are all the municipalities involved in contacting all schools? Madam President, what we need after 28 April is not only a 1.5 meter economy, but also a 1.5 meter society. How do we prepare society for that? What test capacity is needed for this? Then there is a question about the temporary emergency measure to bridge work retention which Minister Koolmees has declared. Will civil society organisations and voluntary organisations with paid forces be eligible for this? Finally, Madam President. Over the last few days, there has been a lack of clarity about our contribution to European solidarity in this crisis. I have also seen how the Minister of Finance has clarified his commitment. Thank you for that. Is the Prime Minister prepared to underline our commitment to European cooperation and solidarity in this debate as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you, Mr Segers. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u47	I heard Mr Segers say that it is his impression that the cabinet is committed to group immunity. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u48	Yes, as a result of policy, so as the hoped outcome of what is happening now, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u49	Yes, so in his view, the hoped-for outcome of the policy that is now being pursued is achieving group immunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u50	That's the wish, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr Segers spoke finely about how we can find the balance between the strict measures and the situation that people still have a connection in the final phase of their lives, so that they do not die alone. I wholeheartedly support him in that. I tabled a motion last week asking whether a group of people, in this case Muslims, who can no longer go abroad, could have a place where they could at least be buried according to religious guidelines. I am surprised that Mr Segers did not support that motion. I would like to ask him whether he is prepared to do so today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u53	Well, I wasn't against that wish, but I listened very carefully to the cabinet. That says: fine, but that lies primarily with municipalities, so let's not burden the municipalities from here on with a new assignment and let's hope that does indeed work out well and gets picked up properly. That is the wish that has been expressed. Your motion called for action from the cabinet. Of this, the cabinet said: give the municipalities room; we want to give them a little space to pick up on this point during this very busy time. So I've experienced this much less negative than you, perhaps. That is why I did not support that motion at the time, but I understand the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u54	It's not like I'm the only one who's experienced it negative. Some of the Dutch with an Islamic background wonder how there may be less solidarity and why this is rejected. The way in which we can discuss things with each other is the best way. You could also say that many measures are being taken from here at the moment, which also require the municipalities to take care of matters. We're in a crisis. Then things are organized centrally. This can fit perfectly with that. You can ask municipalities to do it together or you can designate government land. Again, I'd be happy to take a look at that. If I understand correctly, Mr Segers says: I support the wish, but the effect was not quite as I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u55	I don't understand the latter. What is a bit avenged here is, as far as I am concerned, the unbearable habit of reducing a motion to before or against and then shouting shame on Twitter, if anyone has voted against or just in favour of a motion, and using it for their own gain. And that while reality is often much more nuanced. I don't think you should go into a central ban, central direction or central direction until things go wrong locally. My second question would therefore be whether Mr Azarkan really has any indication that the place is going to be completely out of order. If that is the case, he must ask the question again and see what the cabinet does. The Netherlands has always offered space for this, for example for a long time to the Jewish community. They also have eternal tomb rights. There are places, also in The Hague, where people have been buried for a long time, because that is indeed in line with their religious beliefs. That should also apply to the Islamic community. Action must be taken only if it goes wrong and not in advance, if there is no reason to do so, before action is taken. So the primate lies with municipalities. That's where we laid down the responsibility. If things really go wrong, we can always talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u56	Last question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u57	I understand that, but the conclusion is that at the moment the municipalities simply do not organize anything and that people themselves have to go around with the hat to organize it. It's just taking too long. That initiative was there. Land has been bought with perpetual grave rest. That's done, but that's too small a piece of land. The need is high and the municipalities do not organize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u58	You made it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u59	The need is there, so we really need to respond to the wishes of these Islamic citizens, including through solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u60	Okay. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u61	Madam President, may I give a brief response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u62	Yes, you can respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u63	I would say: ask the cabinet again and come up with obvious examples of where things would go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u64	Mr Segers addressed the cabinet to Europe's attitude. He welcomes the Minister of Finance, who is now taking a different tone. But what does he really want to see in the position of the Netherlands towards those southern European countries? How can we help these countries financially and economically?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u65	I myself have called not so much for another action as for another communication. After all, we have seen a discussion about a means: should you start using Eurobonds, yes or no? I am against it myself, so in that sense I have the same position as the Minister of Finance, who is not in favour of it. Only that became central, while we lost sight of the goal. And the goal is solidarity, helping each other. My commitment would be to help and talk, and to talk to each other about the design of it. And then we have a whole range of resources to do that. But one thing: you are certainly not letting go of each other in this crisis on the European continent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u66	Totally. Only together can we control the corona virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u67	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u68	This applies not only to the Netherlands, but also to Europe and, in fact, to the world. I understand that Mr Segers says: 'We need that solidarity in Europe, and that also means that we need to do something to support those southern European economies. If you don't do it for Spain or Italy, do it for ourselves, because the impact could be enormous if those economies collapse. See if you can work with guarantees, or if we have to fill a fund with each other, but there will have to be some kind of support from the European Union to that effect. For only the words of solidarity are not enough"? Do I understand from Mr Segers that he is prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u69	Yeah, and more. Not only are our economies very intertwined and not only are we economically united within the European Union, but our societies are also intertwined. As we lack ic-capacity and it gets very exciting, you can see that Germany says: we have room left and you can come across the border with your patients. Then you see that there is a very nice form of solidarity and cooperation. This also applies in economic terms and also within the European Union. So yes, there should not only be fine words; they should also be deeds. And there will have to be real support. A form will indeed have to be found for this solidarity, but the means is subordinate to the objective. It will undoubtedly be discussed, and then the cabinet will have my warm support to shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u70	Thank you, Mr Segers. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Our country is drifting between hope and fear, and it will remain so for a while, no matter how difficult that may be. There is one thing we can be sure of, and that is that there will always be uncertainty. Thanks and appreciation for everyone who tries to make the best possible choices within these uncertainties. But there are questions about that, because we heard forecasts last week, after which we were shaken up very much this weekend. Suddenly 2,400 ic-beds are needed, while we still thought the odds were low. If so, I think we should also look closely at the briefing given this morning by the Lower House of the RIVM, by Diederik Gommers of the Intensivists and by the Inspector-General of the inspection. Then it is not unthinkable, however difficult it is to have to discuss that today, that we should be in a code black scenario. And if so, the cabinet must do two things. It has to prepare us for that, so we don't get mugged. Last weekend we learned that it can go faster than we hope. But the cabinet must also look again at the measures that have been taken. Isn't there some small things in there that could reduce the risk of us getting into that disaster scenario? For example, exceptions have been made to the measures for ecclesiastical meetings. I do not understand why we would still want to take that risk if we had the slightest chance to avoid the pressure on the ic's and that disaster scenario. Is the cabinet prepared to go through the measures one more time? The flights from fireplaces have also been mentioned, and the testing of people there. Shouldn't the holiday parks be closed? We need to take one more look, to do everything we can to prevent that scenario. We see that RIVM assumes a decrease in the so-called reproduction number, but it is and remains an estimate. What if it's not a good time? The cabinet must be prepared for that. Mr. Chairman. There's a shortage of everything, said the Minister of Medical Affairs. Of course, we share the concern about this. Fortunately, a lot of tests will be available now. Does that mean that all people working in healthcare can be tested? Can the Minister specify that? For example in ggz, for example in home care. People need clarity. And what about the distribution of the protective materials? Are the ggz and home care taken sufficiently and what is the state of play now? How many people have access to protective equipment and how many people don't? The Animal Party is also concerned about a growing lack of medicines, especially for palliative care. Can the Minister state what the state of affairs is now? Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party joins Mr Klaver's appeal just now. We shouldn't go to a total lockdown situation, but what we can still do, we need to be able to do now. We also need to look further ahead. We heard this morning what we saw earlier: that the people who now have to work on the ic's, have it very hard and have traumatic experiences. This means that there is a need for good protection and guidance for these people. We understood from this morning's briefing that this is going well, that help is also being offered by all kinds of people in the country who have experience with this kind of coaching. And that's good. But can the cabinet say that this protection and this guidance for the people who have to do this very hard work will continue in the long term? Because these complaints can last for a long time. The cabinet does not yet have to explain in detail how we are going to organise and finance this, but we would like the commitment to do so. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The Animal Party has asked more often about the causes of this kind of pandemics. We will continue to ask written questions about this. And then there is the solidarity that the cabinet appeals to: the non-binding call made by Minister Koolmees not to pay a dividend if you make use of the government regulations. I think we're gonna need a little bit of a tooth. Because that moral appeal to, for example, the Rabobank last week in Buitenhof, with the question why they are asking people who stand red for nearly 13% interest, was not answered with: no, we are not going to do that anymore. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u72	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Krol has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS. I hear the Prime Minister say that Mr Krol is 70 years old today. Congratulations, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u73	Well, that's not the day! Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days, my group has been covered by reports from elderly people who are afraid, terrified. They're afraid if they get sick, they're not welcome in intensive care and they have to die at home. They're afraid they won't have a chance to be admitted if they have serious complaints. They're scared because they've been approached by the GP asking if they want to be ventilated. At first we thought it was an incident, but now we also hear from the National General Medical Association that it was not an incident. People are afraid because people think that only age plays a role in getting access to a hospital. Mr. Chairman. I ask the cabinet today to make it clear what the policy is, what choices are being made, by whom and why. Why have general practitioners approached older patients with the question of whether or not they want to be admitted to intensive care in case of a corona infection? And on whose mission did that happen? We're getting signals that a hospital ordered this, but we're also hearing it's a government assignment. That's what a doctor writes to us. And why? What does the Cabinet think of this treatment? I'd like some clarity. What form of triage is going to take place? Is it the same everywhere in the country by general practitioners, in hospitals and nursing homes and what role does age or condition play in the necessary decisions? As of 6 April, more tests will be available for all health care workers if they have complaints. Can the Minister explain how this is going to work in practice? When does who qualify and how do we distribute the tests? Why is the Minister still a little reluctant when it comes to the production of buffer fluid in a public or semi-public laboratory? Has Roche actually shared the recipe? The letter doesn't exactly show that. What rules do the tests in the Netherlands have to comply with, and do the rules correspond to the rules in other countries? I'd like an explanation. How's the post-test coming on the antigen test? Are all options, including abroad, well considered, and does the Cabinet intend to use rapid tests to determine the degree of group immunity with sufficient reliability? Is the cabinet prepared to make more money available for scientific research to combat the corona crisis, and can applications be dealt with more quickly and, above all, less bureaucratically? To what extent are municipalities able to take good care of all the elderly in their municipality under these conditions? Has the emergency plan been worked out in terms of content? Are the resources available? How do we ensure that in municipalities all the elderly who need care or guidance are well in sight? Mr. Chairman. There is now a reservoir of necessary treatments and care questions that are delayed: surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, you name it. Public health inspection is also concerned about this. In spite of all the crisis efforts, is the cabinet already managing this potential new crisis? It is heartwarming that so many former nurses and other care staff report to get back to work in healthcare. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether this group can be maintained for a longer period of time, precisely because of the catching up of the many other necessary and planned care? Mr President, I would like to conclude with a few other questions. Is it possible to extend the ic capacity even further than the 2,400 already planned? Is it necessary to think about air treatment and climate control systems in relation to the spread of the virus? And are the public transport companies encouraged to clean their equipment extra well? Finally, Schiphol. Another plane landed this morning, and no temperature is even measured. Isn't that dangerous? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u74	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u75	Mr. Chairman. "Wir setzen uns mit Tränen nieder." Those are the words "you recognize the castle coral of the Matthäus passion." The suffering and dying of Jesus Christ is musically interpreted by Johann Sebastian Bach; grief, fear and suffering is impressive, and precisely so appropriate in this time of grief and mourning. Normally, the sounds are heard throughout the country at this time of the year. Now all performances have been cancelled, even those in Naarden on Good Friday, for the first time since 1945, as indicated. Very unreal. This is just one example that shows how the struggle against the coronavirus intervenes in our living together. The message from the cabinet was clear yesterday: we are far from there. This morning, that also sounded like the technical briefing: we are far from there. That's bad, but it's true. It is right that the measures have therefore been extended. That's a lot to ask of everyone. Hang on, it's the call. Many people deserve to be sunk in these harsh times: care workers, carers, volunteers. I would also like to express my appreciation today for people we do not talk about very much but who continue to work in these unusual times, in construction, as a gardener, in schools or anywhere else. I am glad that our daily bread is not from China, but that our own farmers are now also in favour of a stable food supply. I also ask for attention for mental caregivers. Have they already been designated as a vital profession? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister often emphasizes it: we sail on the compass of experts. However, the reality is, as always, more rigid than arithmetic models. For example, the expectation for the number of hospitalisations had to be substantially adjusted. I encourage the Cabinet to continue to use the healthy sense of farming in all complex calculations, and to take it for granted. If there are no more protective equipment and they are not distributed better, there is a risk that care will go completely wrong. That is why my question is: can our healthcare workers count on us to take every opportunity to tackle this? Isn't it too easy to say no to serious opportunities for getting good mouth caps? And why is this redistribution going so slow? I know the Minister also shares that concern, but every time you keep getting crying out, "Do you know that we have to work unprotected in the night shift, in home care? I feel outlawed." That is why I would like to make this urgent matter very clear today. Mr. Chairman. Healthy peasant understanding said it before the models needed it: we need to test more. Care workers and vulnerable people are at risk. In the case of a shortage of tests, is the alternative absolutely nothing at all, or can we do something in any other way? Temperature measurements are more common abroad, including for example for travellers from the Netherlands. What are the possibilities for that? I also agree with the questions that have been asked about flights from fireplaces and about foreign tourists. Indeed, take also here, if possible, the surety for the uncertain. Mr. Chairman. Almost all the Member States in Europe are affected by the corona crisis. Last week I also spoke about countries outside Europe. If we look now at the countries within Europe, we can see that there are a lot of problems. The SGP is also in favour of helping other heavily affected countries. I would add that we should not take steps towards a transfer union, but we should stick to the course to help where possible. Finally. I would like to wish all those responsible for dealing with the crisis wisdom, health and strength. We are indeed busy working together, but if that is the case, something is missing from my group's view. One of the most moving arias from the Matthäus is the famous prayer "Erbarme dich." With these words I would like to conclude my contribution. Lord, have mercy on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u76	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What would be the most eye-catching sense if we looked at this corona age? Would that be: how would it be with my patient if I returned to intensive care? How's Grandpa and Grandma anyway? Mom, when can I go back to school? When can I restart my business and serve my customers? A tight month after the corona virus was first discovered, the influence on our lives is penetratingly present. There's a big contrast between the empty streets and the full hospitals. There is a crisis atmosphere in the care sector. Colleagues have already said: of course we are grateful to the doctors, nurses, cleaners and everyone else who fight hard for the lives of all those patients. There's still a lot of uncertainty and fear. The extension of the emergency measures, as announced yesterday, is necessary. They again appeal to everyone's responsibility. Last week it became clear that we were faced with a huge setback in the models. This means that the peak of 2,400 patients in intensive care is not only due in May, but in mid-April. This means, in concrete terms, that in mid-April we will run into the limits of the capacity of our healthcare system. Mr. Chairman. I'll look back anyway. What exactly changed? We assumed ten days of lying down. This appears to be 23 in practice. I asked the Prime Minister last time if that was the most important variable. I didn't get a clear answer to that. I hope he's willing to do that today. Was that indeed the variable, other than that he mistakenly imagined that people would change their behavior, which caused us to ask for the capacity of the ic's very quickly? Mr. Chairman. Let's look forward. Can the Prime Minister guarantee that the 2,400 Ice Beds will be ready next week? How realistic is it that we can scale up after that? Or are we actually entering the code black area? Mr Gommers said last week: 'I think the Dutch health care system will simply not be able to cope'. Hard as hell. It's a painful observation. Does the government have a scenario for that situation? Which people do we give priority to? What's triage look like? What can Germany do? And what agreements are there with other countries that could help us? Mr. Chairman. We wholeheartedly support the justified support measures for entrepreneurs who are in danger of falling over. How's the effect coming? We still have many complaints that counters are not open or that they are overloaded. There also seems to be a difference in the execution between different municipalities. We are also getting signals from entrepreneurs, such as taxi drivers, who, as a result of that directive, have fewer and fewer customers, but also because there are very few people on the streets. Why are they not eligible for this fee of €4,000? The same applies to merchants selling fruit and vegetables. In one municipality the market is completely prohibited, in the other it continues under certain conditions. Mr. Chairman. I was surprised that a number of political parties were not prepared last week to support my motion on eternal grave rest. Because of the corona crisis, a significant group of Muslims cannot bury their deceased according to religious usage in the country of origin; the airspace is just closed. I would like to appeal once again to the parties to support this, to see how we can also show solidarity with this group of people. Finally, Mr President, I would like to end with Churchill, which the Prime Minister started yesterday. "If you go through hell, keep going." I wish the government, as well as all those who work hard in the care sector, every success in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u78	Thank you. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're in uncharted waters. Prime Minister Rutte mentioned the corona crisis yesterday as one of the biggest crises in history, outside wartime. I think a lot of people in the Netherlands feel that way. But it is also good to see how the Dutch largely adhere to the guidelines of the lockdown. It is heartwarming to see how Dutch people at this time take that extra step for their neighbors, for the people in their surroundings who just need a little more support, who just need a little more help. This is an image that makes us proud: proud of the solidarity in our country and the resilience that emerges in us, and of course proud of the people in the care, who now have to make every effort. More than ever, as far as the Democracy Forum is concerned, the importance of the country must now be at the forefront. Now we all have one task: to protect the Netherlands from the corona virus and the consequences of the crisis. In this context, FvD also wants all further decision-making on this crisis to be lifted. Soon we will be able to discuss nitrogen and Lelystad airport again, Albania's accession to the EU or the removal of gas from homes, but not now. So let's move forward everything that doesn't have to do with corona directly. No controversial decisions in the back rooms while the parliament does not meet. Let us all, opposition and coalition, focus equally fully on one thing, the national interest. It is precisely in this country's interest that FvD supports the measures taken by the cabinet since last Monday. We use different words there for lockdown, intelligent lockdown, maximum social distipation, but it's not about the words. The point is that the effective measures, of which we have advocated a great deal before, have now finally been taken. If it had happened earlier, the impact would probably have been less than we see now and the measures would probably have had to last less long. But like I said, this isn't the time for one-knowing rambling about one's own equal. At another time, we're gonna look back and evaluate. Now we will support the current course, better late than ever. We are delighted to see that Dutch people comply with the regulations, but we are concerned about the fact that there are still flights from corona fireplaces to the Netherlands. Our border with Germany is still open. We would like to ask the cabinet once again to introduce border controls and prevent flights from high-risk areas, with the exception of flights with Dutch people repatriated or people who can apply for specific permission to come to our territory for another reason, after which they should be tested and possibly remain in quarantine. That brings me to the third point, Madam President, which is testing. In his briefing this morning, RIVM President Van Dissel spoke about a fatality of 5% of the infected. 5%. That's huge. Of every 10,000 infected in the Netherlands, 500 would die. But that is, of course, speculation in principle. Because the only way to know where we stand now, to know what policy is rational is by taking a representative sample among the population, to see how many people have it now, how many people have had it and how many people have not had it. That must be an absolute priority. I would like to hear from the cabinet why it was first mentioned yesterday. Why not start much earlier, starting with a representative sample? That is the only way to finally find out about the severity of this virus and the impact of the measures we are taking. Because that's what we have to weigh. And it shouldn't be the case that the disease was later expelled, but the patient himself died. Forum for Democracy therefore wants to support our SMEs and ourzzp'ers wherever they can. We support the cabinet package for SMEs andzzp'ers. But for some companies this will not be enough. I'm rounding up. We want to develop a number of scenarios for kick-starting our economy, when in a few weeks' time these measures to emerge from the crisis will be over. The interest rates that banks charge for SMEs should be lowered. The 3.9% closure premium should be abolished. VAT rates may need to be reduced. We have to do what we can to get the economy out of its way in May and June. The determination we see now, that is the Netherlands, and we hold on to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u80	Thank you. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u81	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for paying particular attention to children, to adults and to the elderly in an unsafe home situation and for letting this be part of the press conference on the package of measures last night. Thank you very much. I would like to join the many questions that have already been asked. I shall confine myself to a few supplementary questions. The World Health Organization has indicated that most of the infections are now at home in the home, which is a logical consequence of the measures taken. What can people do at home to minimise the risk of contagion by or from roommates? One more question about pneumococcal vaccination. It seems to help reduce the symptoms in the weakest, especially the elderly. In Germany, elderly people are called upon to obtain vaccination. The vaccine cannot prevent the disease that causes the virus, but it can better protect the risk groups from double lung infection, which can be life-threatening. Has that been considered in the Netherlands, or is that still going to happen? Mr. Chairman. Finally, looking ahead to autumn and early next year: since some experts, including the RIVM itself, indicate that this corona crisis may last for years and there may be new periods in which similar measures need to be taken, I have the following question. There will be new elections by next March at the latest. Can the Minister indicate if there is some sort of roadmap in the Election Council for holding elections during a crisis like this? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u82	Thank you. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u83	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is not doing well in the corona statistics. We are in sixth place on the list of deaths per capita. I asked Mr Van Dissel this morning for the reason, but his answer was that we simply do not know. Measuring is knowing. In any case, we can see that there is extremely little testing in the Netherlands compared to countries where things are better. I've asked several times over the past few weeks to see if there's any more testing. At first I asked that in relation to the successful protocol of testing and isolation as followed in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore. It's still odd that we didn't copy that protocol. Secondly, I asked for clarity to be given to people who have complaints in home isolation, but who may not have corona at all. Now I ask again, but as part of the start-up strategy. If someone has already had corona, he or she can actually participate in social life and the economy without any limitation. Does the Minister agree with me that if we have this information through intensive testing, this could greatly speed up the start-up of normal life? Has the Minister considered intensively testing for antibodies, so we know who has had corona and are likely immune? If so, what is the outcome of this consideration? Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday I spoke to an affected entrepreneur: Egbert Ruijgrok, former commando and now owner of the company Green Adventures. This company organises adventures for companies, schools and individuals. His turnover has dropped from one day to the next to zero. With his SBI code, he is not eligible for the scheme to benefit entrepreneurs affected sectors. Together with the Forum for Democracy, I have twice tabled a motion to counter the corona bureaucracy. I must confess that the motions are having an effect. Within a day Minister Wiebes had adapted the scheme, but too many entrepreneurs are still excluded: recreational entrepreneurs, tattooists, VIP drivers and even delicacies. I would therefore like to ask whether this regulation could be applied more generously and more easily. Entrepreneurs have it hard enough at this time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 25 minutes. I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u85	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u86	Mr. Chairman. Maybe first about the division of labour: Hugo de Jonge will talk about care in a moment, including the topic of capacity and the questions about mortality rates and RIVM figures. The same applies to questions about education, homelessness and homeless people. The questions about yesterday's package are divided. A number of suggestions have been made and questions asked in the vein of "wouldn't you like this or that?'. I'll pick them up most of the time, but Minister De Jonge will deal with the foreign flights. That's how it's divided. I have three types of questions to answer. Firstly, the question of the package and its communication. Secondly, Europe and solidarity in Europe. Thirdly, the question of the socio-economic consequences of the crisis. If you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'll start without an introduction. I refer to our press conference yesterday. We also want to try to get straight to the point, in the spirit of not making the debate too long. I shall begin with the questions that have been asked about the addition of measures. The first question was about the divine services and the religious communities. This is, of course, about church services other than Christian, Protestant and Catholic. That is, of course, also about the Muslim world and the Hindu community. For this purpose, Ferd Grapperhaus, the Minister for Honor Services, maintains rather intensive contact with these faith communities, so that in practice the agreement to be maximum restraint is handled well. It is not constitutionally possible to say that there should be no services at all, but I do not think that such a far-reaching intervention is necessary. Looking at how things are going, it turns out that a lot of religious communities have decided to only organise online services. The Roman Catholic Church has declared not to hold public celebrations until Pentecost. The Protestant Church in the Netherlands (PKN) has advised the communities to keep only online services until 1 June. A lot of mosques have suspended Friday prayers. I was in the Schilderswijk on Saturday at the Haagse Markt watching, and there too I talked to many people who confirmed that. Activities around the Ramadan are also cancelled. Minister Grapperhaus will keep that contact for the next few days. So it would appear that all kinds of meetings are taking place, then we will, of course, look at this again. But I think that going further than we have gone does not serve a reasonable purpose. So I agree with the urgency on this point, but I would argue in favour of seeing if we can manage along this line to get the religious communities themselves to get the maximum out of the meetings. That is actually in line with the spirit of the whole approach, and so it seems to be working. The second suggestion was about travelling in the Netherlands. We advise people to travel within the Netherlands. This also applies: stay at home as much as possible. That's still the main rule. So the advice also applies: do not travel in the Netherlands. We do not want too many travel movements through the Netherlands. We have decided to close the common toilet and shower facilities and laundry facilities at campsites and holiday parks. As you can see, security regions themselves go further in a number of cases, where these regions thought it appropriate. This happened in Zeeland, for example. That's where all the tourist night stays have been banned since last Monday. And North and South Holland have closed all the campsites. As a result, a substantial part of the holiday facilities has lapsed. So I don't think it's necessary to say at national level that the campsites should be closed. A third point was the question of the Easter weekend and of any holidaymakers from Germany and Belgium on that weekend. I understand that question, and that's what we're worried about. This will be discussed in the MCCb, i.e. the Ministerial Committee on Crisis Management. That's plenty for the Easter weekend. We will report on this tomorrow after that meeting, also on the basis of opinions. But, of course, I understand the concern at this point. A last suggestion made in this context was about Germany, where the measure is that you can walk in the street with no more than two people. In the Netherlands, if you walk in a group of three or more people, you have to keep 1.5 meters away. That is, of course, similar in spirit to what the Germans do. Moreover, this rule does not apply to families in the Netherlands or in Germany. So this does not have to be done in families that already live at home, or at least with people who live together and therefore are already at home together. They don't have to do this. Furthermore, if Mr Jetten and I are walking on the street, we must also keep that 1.5 metres away. But if Klaas Dijkhoff comes to disturb us, there can also be maintenance. This applies here from three people. In Germany: you can only walk in groups of two. It's a bit semantic, because the question, even with that 1.5 meter distance, becomes of course soon: when is it still a group and when are they different pairs? So I think this doesn't really matter in practice. And we are also basing ourselves on the advice of the OMT. Then a question has been asked about the communication, also because of the beautiful weather that is coming this weekend. That is, of course, a matter of concern. We will therefore also do additional things, taking into account that weather report, via communication channels of public transport, the KNMI, Rijkswaterstaat, the sectors of infrastructure and water state within RWS. Through these channels extra attention is drawn to staying at home during nice weather. The main message remains, also this weekend: stay home as much as possible. And that main message is central to this. We've also been asked if we can use influencers. That's right, and we do. There's a dozen of them. Don't ask me the names. In addition, they have a range of 3.8 million people, especially young people. Since 30 March they post their posts, stories and so on. They pay attention to the perspectives of action: stay at home as much as possible, keep the 1.5 meters away, wash your hands. And they also show how they spend their time at home. They call on others to share that again, so that that 3.8 million group can be increased. They're all doing this in the campaign. Only together we can control Corona. They use #only together. There are now 500 messages on Instagram with #only together. Two further questions have been asked or suggestions made outside the economic bloc. Is there any thought on more far-reaching scenarios? Of course, we always look at what might be necessary. Of course, we are also looking at this on the basis of the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. What could be a further upward trend towards possible measures and the continuity of our society? But at the moment that is not foreseen. On the basis of all the OMT's opinions, we maintained the package that applied until 6 April, after 6 April. I come to the last question in this block of non-economic issues, so there are two further blocks: economics at national level and European solidarity. The next election will be "I checked it out" in March 2021. This means that the parties must have registered by 21 December this year at the latest. The nomination is until 1 February next year. At the moment, therefore, we do not yet see any reason to reflect on scenarios when it comes to elections. Should it come to that, we will, of course, do so, but it is not foreseen at the moment. Those were the answers to all the questions asked outside the national economy and European questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u87	I'll go first to Mrs. Ouwehand, because it's been there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u88	I have two questions for the Prime Minister, firstly because he was the last to talk about communication. In an interrupting debate with the CDA, I have already put forward that one minister's signal is different from the other minister's. I don't think there should be any confusion. What does "stay home as much as possible" mean? Is that, for example, going to the store or not? Can the Prime Minister clarify that? The second question is about the call made by the Animal Party to really look at whether, where we can, we need to tighten up a little more to prevent us from getting into that disaster scenario, even if it is only a reduction of 0.1% in the probability that we will end up in that disaster scenario. 'Cause I was really freaked out by the briefing this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u89	On that second point, I really think that we should rely on the advice of the RIVM and, broadly speaking, the OMT. There are now no recommendations for additional measures. I have now passed through the various suggestions that came from the Chamber. When it comes to traveling in the Netherlands, as I have already outlined, the security regions are doing extra things when closing down campsites. We will come back tomorrow at the risk of groups from Belgium and Germany during the Easter weekend, but I really want to base myself on the OMT. The advice is: stay home as much as possible. We have an intelligent lockdown. This means that we also have a little faith in the cleverness of the Netherlands. Turns out it works, too. That means if someone wants to get some fresh air, they can. It is now very clear to all of the Netherlands that you are not going to do all this in the same place in the park or on the beach. Do it as much as you can around yourself. If you run a lap or ride a bike, it's all fine, but avoid group formation. We can all contribute to that. You can see that's working, too. If you go to the store, it's advice to do it alone. Don't go out with husband, wife or kids. Do that alone. Mrs Mona Keijzer rightly said: think about the shops too. That means: if you are going to buy vegetables, fruit and meat, you can also go to the butcher or the vegetable farmer. You don't necessarily have to go to a big supermarket for that. As Dijkhoff or Pieter Heerma said, you can also support the smaller shops online.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u90	The latter is not entirely clear, because I heard the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs clearly call for shopping. You can arrange that online, but that wasn't the call. I am therefore offering the Prime Minister once again the opportunity to make that distinction, shared by me, on the grounds of necessity. You have to stay healthy, so you have to take a walk or move every day. You're gonna need groceries, too, so you're gonna have to go to the store. But with regard to other shops, for example to fit a little bit of clothing, I don't know if it helps if one member of the cabinet says that you should stay home as much as possible and if the other member says: go to those shops. So I'd like clarity on that point. Then there are the extra measures. I understand that the cabinet has a balanced package and listens to the advice, but I am just surprised about these church meetings, for example. The rule is, no groups. But there is an exception for church meetings with 30 people. Then the Prime Minister says here that the Constitution does not allow it, but we temporarily suspend all kinds of constitutional freedoms. You can't demonstrate now either. Freedom of assembly is also restricted. So I don't understand that argument. I think everyone should be in on it right now so that we don't end up in that disaster scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u91	That's what they do. I have outlined to you that the churches remain largely closed and also the mosques. So that's good. If it is true that we find that there are all kinds of services going on, we are really watching this; next week, Graperhaus will be back together with all the religious and other religious communities, so we can always see if something extra is needed. At the moment that is really not foreseen. And here again: intelligent lockdown. If the Roman Catholic Church itself actually quiets everything down until Pentecost and others until 1 June, then I do not know what it adds to say now with a hard hand: you will keep the churches closed. People are really doing it wisely. On the first point: I really think we should be careful not to start thinking creatively about what else you could come up with. There is a strong opinion from all the experts. We'll follow that. That is also important, including in communication. Last Monday I really remembered that it was less successful with all of us and that it was a messy press conference. The strength of yesterday's message is precisely that there is a package until 6 April and that will continue. It continues until April 28th. The week before, we're gonna decide what we're gonna do next. This is a clear message based on the advice of our experts. I've heard some suggestions. Again, we are still looking at the travel movements in the Netherlands and the travel movements from abroad to the Netherlands. And again, we're really watching the church societies. If it is necessary, I agree with that, too. You should even look at the constitutional situation, if, for example, it turns out that they all organise services. But that's not happening right now. I tried to express yesterday at the press conference that I find a democratically mature Netherlands hear us saying: we're doing well, we're doing smart together. The alternatives have been found, so as a government we do not need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u92	Mr Baudet. Oh, no, Mrs Ouwehand, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u93	The question of communication, to clarify it, has not been answered by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u94	About the stores. Shops are still open in the Netherlands. Of course the message is: stay home as much as possible. All shops have organized that you are with up to one or two people inside. It's on the door. You see those sticky cats and people look inside. During the weekend I had to pick up bread at my shopping square and saw that everyone first looked inside. Besides, they don't stick together. People are gonna be a little bit apart. That's very well taken care of. If someone says at some point: listen, all the clothes are in the wash and I don't have anything left to put on, hopefully at least one more thing to go to the store, I understand that he's going to the store. But that too is very reluctant. It is not for nothing that the entire retail sector is now trying to make use of the arrangements that we have extended this weekend. If there are 20% to 25% less pin payments and the main streets become empty, I understand that very well. So you can see that this also goes well in practice. I like that. That's also the difference between the intelligent lockdown and saying to everyone "you'll stay home even if you're healthy and you're okay." We organise it as a society with each other without having to say patronizingly to everyone: this is exactly what you have to do. It went wrong once. That was the weekend for last weekend and that too was adjusted last weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u95	I was wondering. Do these influencers do that out of idealism or are they paid for it? If so, how were they selected? How's the fee coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u96	I don't know, but I'm gonna find out. You will receive that answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u97	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u98	The Prime Minister raises interesting issues. I would like to have a reaction from him to what is threatening to happen in intensive care. I think this is historic. For the first time in our history, next Sunday we need not only 2,400 ic-beds, it's just the question of whether we're gonna make it, but we can also get into a situation the week after or the week after that that we have fewer beds, equipment and nursing staff than we need to help everyone. I would very much like an honest answer, including in the context of the Prime Minister's communication. If that's gonna happen, are you gonna tell people honestly? If that's coming, are you going to tell people honestly that we don't have enough beds to help everyone? That's question one. Question two is whether you are also willing to take away the concerns of many elderly people in the Netherlands. A number of colleagues, including myself, have mentioned in our term that these elderly people have now been called to say that there will probably be no place for them on the ic. Can you take that concern, that scenario, away from the people and say that everyone, old or young, has a chance to be helped on the ic? Can you tell me when it isn't? I think that the Netherlands deserves an honest answer from the Prime Minister of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u99	The two of us are doing this debate, Hugo de Jonge and I. There are two flavors. Either I answer all the questions alone from now on or we do this together. But then we split the answers. Martin van Rijn, Hugo de Jonge and I work together on nothing but this big issue, the capacity in care. If we call each other ten times a day, you can be sure that everything is aimed at ensuring that we maintain the capacity so that the ic capacity remains for the rising wave. Of course, much more importantly, this also applies to the people behind us, the people in care. A lot of detailed questions have been asked. We have made a division of labour. What does De Jonge answer? During the half hour suspension he also understood himself with the people to include the last stand. I've been preparing for my questions. I really appreciate the fact that I am committed to him answering those parts now. Everything he's about to say is prepared and he says on my behalf. That goes for the whole cabinet. Martin van Rijn, Mark Rutte and Hugo de Jonge work completely unisono. There's no point in me improvising on a piece prepared by De Jonge, including the latest insights of the last 25 minutes I don't know yet, because I've prepared my piece. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u100	Mr President, I do not accept this. I'm really sorry. It cannot be that the Prime Minister of the Netherlands is talking about the sanitary facilities at the campsites and whether or not to go to the bakery and do shopping, however important that may be, while he does not answer the most important question of this whole debate. We could be in front of a code in a minute. Nobody wants that. No one, neither are you. But it could happen. People at home are very worried about that. Are there enough ic-beds when someone we know or someone else gets sick right away? What happens when there's no room? Older people are worried about the phone calls they've been getting. Then I think that the most important politician in this country's cabinet should give that to the Prime Minister. He shouldn't say: I'm talking about the toilets at the campsites and I'm getting out of the way of this important subject. Tell people that you will communicate very honestly about this and tell the elderly that you will not skip them for a place in intensive care if there are any problems in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u101	We're not skipping anyone. We do our utmost to ensure that there is sufficient capacity on the ic, but this also applies to the number of beds you need outside the intensive cares. A lot of detailed questions have been asked about the contacts of general practitioners with older people. I would like to mention the detailed questions on the precise structure of RIVM's capacity and estimates. In the division of roles Hugo de Jonge answers all these questions. The same applies to the latest state of affairs. Mr Wilders can be assured of that. We're not doing anything else. The most important issue we have now is to ensure that we stay ahead of the wave. That's our sacred duty. They're working hard on it. I've been working on that all day. But the answer to all those detailed questions is in our division of roles now with Hugo de Jonge. Mr President, I think we really need to agree that I will be doing the whole debate on my own from now on. If that's what you want, I'm fine with it. But if there are two of us here, then I would also ask you to understand that where a lot of detailed questions have been asked, I want to make sure that the Chamber is well served. And then the current division of roles is the way we have done it now. I would like to be in contact with the President in the run-up to the next debate. If the conclusion is that the Chamber only wants to hold the debate with the Prime Minister, then I accept it. But then that's the conclusion. If we do it this way, I also ask for understanding for this division of roles. But that cannot mean that Mr Wilders thinks: Rutte does not think this is important. This is what we do all the time. No doubt about it! But I really want to make sure we report the latest state of affairs to the Chamber. And that's where De Jonge, with the information from the last half hour, has the latest state of play for ready-to-go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u102	I will ask the questions when it comes to calling the elderly and so on, which are factual questions, or to the Minister for Health. With all due respect, because they are important questions. But I insist that this Prime Minister, in general, should say to the Dutch people at home, who are now all watching television, that everyone is treated equally. Of course, he's trying to do everything he can to prevent us from going black in such a code. There is a chance that this will happen. That's what I heard at the briefing this morning. Not only do I want to hear from the Prime Minister that he is doing everything he can to prevent this, but I want him to tell the Dutch people honestly. I want him to communicate that honestly and that he is also going to say honestly that everyone, old or young, is ultimately right when it comes to getting a place in intensive care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u103	That answer is, of course, yes. De Jonge will explain that in a moment. You want to avoid, as long as possible, a situation in which a choice has to be made on the basis of capacity. And everything is aimed at preventing that too. You can never give guarantees. But that's what it's all about. And I can at least give you one guarantee: that we will do everything we can to prevent that. But for that, medical-ethical considerations are completely unrelated to capacity demand. That is a complicated and very precise answer, which also Hugo de Jonge will soon share with the Chamber. I really want him to have the chance. I can assure Mr Wilders that this whole answer is also given on my behalf. We're constantly trying to map these things very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u104	I would nevertheless like to join Mr Wilders' questions. Prime Minister Rutte says: I will not answer detailed questions. I understand. But he does deal with the closing of churches, whether or not to close down shower facilities. I think everyone here understands that the key question today, of this debate, is: are we going to be okay with the ic capacity? And also: what does that possibly mean for the scenarios? That is why, I think, it is also a question for the Prime Minister. That's what the Prime Minister was talking about. One is of course related to the other. Last week we were standing here, and then it was about 1,600 beds. That's when it was exciting. It was exciting whether or not we were gonna make it. Now that scenario is totally out of date. We're living in a whole new reality again. It's 2,400 beds, not two months from now, but at the end of this week. And that also means something for the possible scenarios. That is also my question to the Prime Minister. What lessons can he draw from the past week and what does that possibly mean for the scenarios? Is he also working on the blackest scenario that no one here hopes will become reality? And what does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u105	Yeah, a fair question. Let me say this about it. In a crisis like this, pandemically, you see that it is inevitable that you incorporate the latest insights into your scenarios, and that it may then be that things go slower or faster and effects occur slower or faster. One of the effects we see is that the capacity in intensive care is filling up faster than we had previously thought. Mrs Marijnissen is absolutely right about that. That's why we have two things to do. Firstly, we must ensure that we stay ahead of the wave so that that capacity is there. And if, according to next Sunday's estimate, more is needed, we must do everything we can to see what we can do. All of this has consequences and effects, which De Jonge will deal with in a moment. As was said this morning during the hearing, this also has to do with quality. What you ultimately want is to avoid triage for as long as possible: two people are eligible for one place, and one is only eligible. You want to postpone that as long as you can. You can't give guarantees that you'll never get into a situation like this. You can guarantee that you'll do everything you can to prevent that. That is the honest answer to that part of the question. Can I just say straight away that this week I have seen with great respect what people in hospitals are doing not only for the ic's but also wider, from the cleaners to the patient transporters, the ICUs that transport people between hospitals and the wider ambulance transport, and of course the nurses and the doctors, the doctors are doing their duty to do what you normally meet for five or ten years, sometimes in a few days? Complete hospitals work towards this much greater demand than you need under normal circumstances. I think that's really very impressive. Once again, that is what we are aiming for, and that is something that is constantly being considered. The precision is that it is not that everyone is always the best in an ic-place. You know you're at an ICU site for three to four weeks. You're losing your muscles. Afterwards, you've had a lot of additional diseases. This means that in many cases it is said: the ic-place is not the best solution for many people. That is not a capacity demand, that is the normal medical-ethical conversation that takes place between doctors and between doctors and patients. As a politician, I think we should stay as far away from that as possible. What you never want is for that conversation to be influenced by a capacity demand. Quite apart from that, capacity demand can be addressed. You try to postpone it as long as you can, and that's what it's all about. That is the fair and fair answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u106	Thank you for that answer. Everyone sees that there is man and power working, I think. Everyone sees that everyone with the best intentions is trying to avoid that blackest scenario. We are all working hard on that and, indeed, the caregivers and the people in the hospitals and on the ic's front; it might be hardest. Everyone appreciates the work they are doing. But our role as a Chamber, as I see it, is of course to think along, as far as possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u107	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u108	...to avoid that blackest scenario and to avoid capacity problems. Gommers said last week: at a time when that peak is going to rise even further and there will be even more demand, our healthcare system may not be able to cope. Then, of course, the concern is very great. It makes sense that people are worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u109	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u110	It is logical that we should ask questions about this. Today we were told in the technical briefing how fast it is going, while the RIVM actually expects the peak to come. At the same time, it was said last week that our healthcare system may not be able to cope with this as a Dan scenario. That is why I ask the question again: what are we doing at the moment? What are the scenarios that are there and also the alternative scenarios to avoid that blackest scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u111	I give the main answer and really ask Hugo de Jonge to do the detailed answer. The main answer is that we are now working towards realizing the expected need for next Sunday and then making sure that you do everything you can to build on it. Then there may be a moment, like Gommers and I believe the inspector-general, but certainly Gommers, have said today, that the quality is not at the same high level. But then it's always better than making the choice between two people, one not the other. That's what he said. Eventually there are trade-offs, trade-offs, trade-offs. That's inevitable. Hugo de Jonge will be addressing the question of how to continue this phase as long as possible. Then there is the "normal"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is, of course, our job to get rid of it, because we have to stay away from it and ensure that you stay ahead of that wave as long as possible. I have also heard Lodewijk Asscher with questions on this point. We're all about to try to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u112	I will start with the intensive care capacity and I will come very quickly to the additional measures we talked about, but those two are connected. This morning during the briefing I heard that the ic-doctors say: our system can actually no longer keep up with the prediction of the RIVM how many people will need an ic-spot. They can already see that the quality of ic-care is under pressure, because the nurse already needs to help more people than is actually justified. They also see that this scaling up is almost impossible. It is precisely from this information that the question came wide out of the Chamber: what additional measures could you take? I think it is very good that no one here has said that there should be a complete lockdown and that we should all stay inside. We know that's not possible. In fact, the proposals, which I myself have made, all fit within the bandwidth of that intelligent lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u113	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u114	I know that's what the experts write, that all the extra measures do not have a huge effect, but they might have the effect that maybe ten or twenty fewer people come on an ic. Then I ask whether the cabinet is not prepared to take these few very limited additional steps. I think that the Prime Minister would be too easy to ignore by saying that what we are discussing here about how many people we are allowed to walk the streets is almost like in Germany. No, there's a difference. It's not big, but it's definitely a difference. It could also make a difference in this situation. The same applies to the holiday homes. The same applies to flights from abroad. My question to the Prime Minister is: would he really like to look very critically at that? It is precisely because doctors say that scaling up is becoming very problematic that we should also help them by reducing the risk of infection in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u115	Yeah, once. At the same time, I would like to put that aside, because I do not want you to do so on the basis of the opinions of the experts who say: what measures do you want to have the effect? That's the package. Of course, the mess you saw in the communication last Monday and the tightness with which we now opt for a package that we will continue until 28 April. No measures are currently foreseen that have a significant impact on the care capacity that would contribute to removing problems. The choice was therefore made, on the basis of the OMT opinion, to extend that package. A number of logical proposals will then be discussed. I'm gonna walk by them real quick. The prevention of German tourism to coastal towns came from the corner of the CDA. That's what we're gonna decide tomorrow. In the MCCb, I already told you how we deal with it. Then there was Mr Klaver's thought about foreign flights, among others. That too will be discussed tomorrow in the MCCb. So these are two concrete suggestions that are not put aside. We've got a gun on him. That's what we're looking at and we're coming in tomorrow with further reports. Then there are three suggestions that I do not see at the moment whether they have immediate significant added value over the further limitation of freedoms. The first is the complete closure of the holiday park. Why do I say that? In a number of cases, the security regions close the holiday parks because they see the risks of too large groups together in their own regions. Nationally, the laundry, shower and toilet facilities are closed in those parks anyway. But of course there are people who are now sitting at home for weeks on a small apartment without a balcony, without a garden, with their children and who might think: I have a town garden with a small mobile home where I can go with the Easter days. Then I don't know if you should take those people away. They live together in one house and go with each other in the car so that car is not a problem to that mobile home, where at that time they are no further danger to others. Should you take that away from those people? You would if you decided to close the holiday parks nationally. That's the type of trade-off we've made there. The second suggestion concerns religious meetings. I also find it very unfortunate if they continue, but you can see in practice that they no longer continue. I say here: we are very keen on this with the religious communities, which take a great deal of responsibility in it, up to and including Ramadan, with very creative thinking about how to organise it virtually as much as possible. Iftar meals are cancelled. You name it. We're on top of that. And if they do not take their responsibilities there, I say to Klaver in the Chamber: then Grapperhaus will not hesitate to propose additional measures through experts. The third is the measure on the street. You can see that the 1.5 meter distance in the Netherlands is maintained hard at the moment. Fines are issued if people do not comply with them from two persons. From two persons the 1.5 meter is maintained. Up to and including two persons also 1.5 metres, but this is not maintained, at least not in the administrative sense. You have to maintain it, of course, but not in the administrative sense. From three people so if you walk with more than two people you can also fine on it. That is a very effective measure and you can also see it in people's behavior over the weekend. So there too, I see that my honest response to Mr Klaver is not the added value now. So if I take a look at it: foreign flights and the prevention of German and Belgian tourism will be in the MCCb tomorrow. Religious meetings: it happens in practice. If that doesn't go well, I'll get back to you. Holiday parks: in North and South Holland and Zeeland they are closed and very limited. The laundry, shower and toilet facilities were already closed. The two on the street: in response to that, I honestly say that I do not see the added value of any further restriction at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u116	Thank you for this comprehensive answer. That's also good, because this is about people's behavior. It is important to consider this carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u117	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u118	I noticed it here in the Chamber just now, when it was about two people and there can be a fine if you are three: it remains complicated. But it is precisely by simplifying it that we might be able to take another step. Actually, I'd like to turn it around. If we did not do all the things that the Prime Minister has just mentioned, it would not have a huge impact on society or on individuals' lives. We could take that step. We know that at the same time we can reduce the risk of infection, and with that on people who may need to go to an ic. To be honest, I understand that the Prime Minister makes a risk assessment and says: the risk of all these measures is very small. I'd say turn it around. The restriction of the freedom of this proud Dutch people and our democracy is not so great. You can take these measures. This reduces the risk of people getting infected and getting onto the ic's. In fact, I think that is why I have so much pressure on this because we owe it to the ic-doctors and the nurses. If you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u119	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u120	In these days I often have to remember three years ago, when my mother was on ice at the Tweeden Hospital. I've been banishing around there for two weeks. I was able to see very directly how special the work the doctors and nurses do. What they do, and what makes it special, is that they have exclusive attention to patients. I can't do that anymore. Not even now, because they've doubled. They shouldn't be looking at one or two people right now. They should be looking at three or four. That could be five or six if it goes on like this. I think it is our responsibility as politicians to take any measure we can, which does not disrupt society as a whole and which is smart, to reduce the risk, even if that means that it is not significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u121	I agree with that one hundred percent. Then let me make the next appointment with Mr Klaver, because I have heard the five suggestions that came out of the debate. Two suggestions, about foreign travel movements to the Netherlands and the foreign flights, will return to our Ministerial Commission tomorrow. That leaves three. From religious meetings, I said what I said: we keep a close eye on them. I also maintain my position on the holiday parks. I admit that I am on the point of maintaining two or more. three on the street to ask the OMT to re-examine what the effect would be. I'll let you know. Shall we do it like this? Perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u122	Fine. Before you proceed, Mr Segers will have the floor. Then I also have Mr. Azarkan on my list, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u123	What if you have a cold chocolate for me? Nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u124	Yes, that is also important, otherwise I will get a lot of emails from citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u125	Yeah, those are the privileges of trade-K. We have to do it with mints. I would like to return to Mr Ouwehand's question about church meetings and the Prime Minister's reply. I notice that there is a certain sensitivity on that point. Mr Asscher had a question about this during the technical briefing. You immediately notice that there is discussion, as if churches have special privileges, or that it is an attack on churches when a question is asked. I haven't experienced it like that, but we need to talk about it openly. I know there's good contact between Minister Grapperhaus and the churches. But when I asked the question online whether there are any churches that do indeed meet in a few larger numbers... 'Cause I don't know them personally. I know ecclesiastical Netherlands pretty well, but I don't know them. I know that the vast majority of the churches have indeed followed the instruction and say: we come together in as little composition as possible in order to be able to broadcast the service online. But there are still a number of churches that look up the border and have the idea that that 30 is a kind of upper limit that you can just sit under. Through the Prime Minister, I would like to encourage Minister Grapperhaus to hold the discussion again, and also to allow mayors to engage in discussions in good consultation with churches. I appreciate the attitude of the cabinet, which says that we should not sit on the letter of the law and stick it all to it, but seek good consultation. So I am giving a warm encouragement to seek that consultation and a warm encouragement towards churches not to seek the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u126	I also agree with this one hundred percent. In the interests of a not too long debate, I agree at all. I will pass it on to my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus. I already know he'll agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u127	Okay. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u128	I have one more question in this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u129	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u130	As he walks to the microphone, I would like to answer one more question in this block by Mr Van der Staaij, the question of adding mental caregivers to the list of crucial professions. It is important that there really is an emergency facility for that list. So it must be a family with one or two parents with a crucial profession. At the school where I visited this morning, you also saw me perform a little sporty moment flexibly via the internet.I also spoke with Liv. Her parents work partly in health care, partly in the media. Those are two sectors that are on the list and so she is at that school and is receiving child care there. But you have to limit it again, because if you make that list for that emergency facility too long, there will be too many children going to that school again and you will have that problem. Mental care providers are included in a list of key occupational groups in the category of care and social support. I do not think there are any signs now that there is a problem with childcare for these professions, so let us not amend that list here and try to really limit it to emergency provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u131	And this question was from...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u132	Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u133	Mr. Azarkan, do you agree with Mr. Van der Staaij to answer that question? Then you will have the floor. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u134	Thank you for the response to this point. I believe that in this case it was not so much about access to care for children, but about access for people in crisis conditions, such as terminal suffering. They have a distinct place in this respect and could therefore also have access to people in special circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u135	I get that. I agree with that, I think, but let me just check with the officials if I'm saying something wrong right now. I will come back to that for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u136	Fine. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u137	In addition to what Mr Segers said, I also indicated last week that I received the message from a number of boards on the board of mosques who were actually having some trouble with that rule of 30 people, because visitors claimed a place, while the advice should be very clear. I asked for it last week not to hold meetings. Most people don't either. But if we can support them in this way, we can say that this can be constitutional, but that it is simply not sensible in the context of public health. Then that also has the support of a lot of mosque authorities. My question is about something else. Last week we saw that the number of days in the models went from 10 to 23. That has a huge impact. What impact has it had on the measures taken or adapted? And what's the impact on the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u138	Yeah, but there's really a whole story behind those estimates. Hugo de Jonge really has all the information about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u139	I think I had the floor, Mr. Chairman. I'm only halfway through my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u140	Rusty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u141	I don't need a ssst, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u142	No, "smooth," I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u143	I got the word from you, and if you say "shh" to me, then... I'm interrupted!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u144	No, I didn't say "shhh."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u145	No, Mr. President, you said... I think I have the floor, and the Prime Minister is talking through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u146	It started with me; I shouldn't have interrupted you. The point was that Hugo de Jonge elaborates on that. We really need to make an agreement on who's doing that debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u147	Then I shall put the question to Mr De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u148	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u149	Good. That's what I wanted to tell you, because you're asking me as a question. That's all I wanted to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u150	But it also started with me interrupting him, Chairman, so it was my fault. Mr President, two more things. Firstly, European solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u151	Before you go any further, Mr Segers has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u152	A brief clarification of Mr Van der Staaij's question. It is also about mental care for people who are now in a nursing home, who are in a lockdown. Those people sometimes struggle with very existential questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u153	That's what Hugo the Young is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u154	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u155	I just misunderstood that question. I thought it was more about whether parents with a profession in mental care should not be on the list of crucial professions, but it was meant differently. In that sense, Hugo de Jonge goes into that. But I'm listening, and if there's anything left, I'm gonna go into that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u156	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u157	Two more things, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, on European solidarity. First of all, Wopke Hoekstra had that interview with RTL, the weekly conversation with the Minister of Finance. What he said there was also a hundred percent on my behalf. That was prepared. I don't think either of us would have gotten the right tone. We thought so ourselves, we said to each other, and he had the first opportunity yesterday. But I'm gonna say that before anyone thinks, "Why does he call Rutte?" Well, that was a deal, because it was just as good for me. It's all very subtle how you put it and so on. The first is, therefore, that there is no doubt as to whether this country is showing solidarity with countries that are also severely affected and sometimes even more severely affected, and are therefore seriously affected in terms of their economy, while at the moment they simply have less resilience. That's the first thing I want to say. So again, yesterday's statements he made on my behalf for the whole hundred percent. They were about me, too. He said it not only about himself, but also about me, and rightly so. And second, what are we gonna do? I would now like to say three things. Firstly, we have taken an initiative towards the Commission and the Member States to set up a separate fund, the corona fund, filled with contributions from the Member States. The Netherlands also wants to make a substantial contribution to this. It is important that these are not loans, nor guarantees, it is a gift to ensure that in countries with weaker economic structures there is money for hospitals, medical equipment and equipment. It is therefore a question of covering medical care for countries that have been hit hard at that point and that need it financially. All this from the thought that it's important that we help each other. That's one. I know that suggestions are being made in Europe to provide this type of support from the ESM. That's what we're all gonna talk about. But if you do that from the ESM, it's a loan that has to be repaid. If you do it as a gift, you say: listen, you have been hit hard, with a number of richer countries we are willing to bear the direct cost of the corona crisis. That's one. The second is that the question then arises as to what is needed to help countries, including the Netherlands, but fortunately we can still do a lot ourselves until now, because of how we stand to help countries that are economically weaker to get out of that crisis, regardless of the direct costs of combating the coronavirus in health care and also in the economy. For this, of course, there are European instruments, including, very importantly, the European Stabilisation Mechanism. The Netherlands has already said internationally: if necessary, we are prepared to put more money into it, so that the ESM becomes stronger. Of course, we all have to do that, but we're willing to raise that ESM if that's what it takes to have more firepower. The second thing we said is this. If countries call on the ESM, how can we ensure in the longer term that they themselves are better able, should a next crisis of any kind arise, to deal with it? We understand very well that it is not now possible to make the arrangements you would normally make with such a country. We're just saying that we don't see anything at all. We also find it very complicated. Because then you are in conflict with the ESM Treaty that says: listen, it is support in an extreme situation. That can be quite considerable, but it is not purely budget support without some pre-condition. What we have done wrong is very strongly naming that peripheral condition, which made them think in Italy: apparently, in the midst of the corona crisis, we must call back the parliament and raise the retirement age tomorrow. That wasn't our point. That's not well communicated. Our point is that, if countries call upon the ESM, you must have an intelligent discussion with each other about: we understand that and we need to do so, but what can you then organise in order to ensure in the longer term that we help those countries to help themselves in a next crisis? Then there is a third discussion, which is of course about Eurobonds, or coronabonds. A whole group of countries are really very opposed to that. I keep saying here that the Netherlands is really opposed to this. Why? Because it breaks the delicate balance between having a single currency in Europe on the one hand and having its own sovereign budgetary and financial policies on the other. That system doesn't fit in with the fact that you're gonna be spending common debt. 'Cause then you'll jointly vouch for that issue. This changes the balance in the agreements made in the euro area since the Maastricht Treaty, where the Member States within that Treaty are simply in sovereignty responsible for their own budgetary policies and their financing, where the European Central Bank......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The issue of that type of union is therefore really at odds with that. It also means, of course, that the issue of these Eurobonds does not address the structural problems. The aim of the ESM is precisely to ensure that countries are also helped to help themselves in the longer term, by addressing some of these structural problems in the economies. I am not saying all that specifically to Italy or Spain, not at all. I also hope to have a conference call tomorrow, on my initiative with Charles Michel, with the Prime Ministers of Italy and Spain to discuss it further. I hope that will work in the morning, otherwise as soon as possible. What you ultimately want to achieve is that the system we have with each other, where fiscal policy is a national domain, a national sovereignty, is maintained as much as possible. That is why the issue of common debt breaks that subtle balance. That is something else than what has been done in the past. Look at the forerunner of the ESM, when the European Commission used the possibilities in the Treaties to mobilise funds for financial support to certain Member States. That's different. But then you don't say Italy... no, let's not call Italy. Then you do not say: country X has a problem with the budget, after which you are going to spend bonds where it is not the Italian interest rate that determines but a kind of common interest rate. Such a common interest rate will be much lower. That really gives you the transfer union that really breaks through that subtle balance in the Eurosystem. That's why we're turning against it. Our proposal takes the form of a fund. It is a gift, not a loan, because that would only increase the debt problem in the south. It is a fund to cover the direct costs of combating corona. Furthermore, we need to look for an intelligent solution: how are you going to help countries help themselves in a next crisis when they use the ESM? It seems to me that you have a number of very simple, good instruments in your hands, which, in the end, I think are acceptable to the countries of southern Europe. I know that these countries are very much in favour of spending bonds through the euro area. But once again, the Netherlands is not alone in this. In fact, there is a whole group of countries that are really very opposed to that. I call Balticum, Austria, Finland, Germany. These countries are opposed to this for the reasons I have outlined. That's what I have to say. But I am not saying this to turn against southern Europe or not to show solidarity. Let me say again: I think that with these Eurobonds you are breaking a balance in the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u158	Have you answered all the questions on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u159	At this point, yes. I just need to address a few questions about the Emergency Jobs Package and the Economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u160	Yeah, that'll come later. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u161	I think it is very good that the Prime Minister here today also states that the tone of the Netherlands has not been effective in recent weeks, and that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u162	And so is my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u163	Sure, the tone of the entire cabinet. And that he says that it was not enough to show solidarity with southern Europe, but also that it was not enough to represent Dutch interests properly. I am pleased to hear that the Cabinet, too, is now seeing that a fund that is rapidly deployable to alleviate the acute need is really important to tackle the biggest problems in several European Member States that have been hard hit. And I am glad to hear that the cabinet is prepared to see how we can also ensure more structurally that the European economy is not seriously affected by the corona crisis. That would also be a threat to our own prosperity. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what urgency he feels is the urgency of reaching these agreements in the short term. We have managed to assemble this economic aid package in our own country in a few weeks, so that entrepreneurs can use it now. I also feel the same urgency for support for the European economy. So what can the Prime Minister do? Mr Asscher also asked for this in the first term. What can this Prime Minister, who is one of Europe's longest-standing Heads of Government, do to reach these European agreements quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u164	The tricky thing is that I do want to do that, but that southern Europe continues to be very committed to Eurobonds. Like that video call with Conte. Sánchez and Michel will continue tomorrow, I hope to say, please, I get it, but let's just park it as an agreement to agree, because we will never get out of that problem. I would like to say that let's move on to the following questions as soon as possible. What does it take to meet the cost of health care in the short term? There is a specific Dutch proposal, which is in line with the Commission's pots and with what the Commission is doing. And the second question is: what can we do to use the European emergency shield in such a way for countries that need it, that it is feasible for all of us and that it is also in line with the treaties? I hope that such a call will be there tomorrow or else as soon as possible. In any case, I understand that everyone is willing to do so. Such a call can hopefully lead you to at least discuss the difference of opinion about these Eurobonds. That has to be taken off the table first, because I see that as long as it remains on the table, it is a blockade for many southern European countries to think about other things. I can't solve that on my own right now, and I need them to do it again. And of course we have not helped with this by our tone, which has led them to go after those Eurobonds even more fiercely. I get that, too. So you know, part of it's caused by ourselves, too. But I think it is now the first task to clean the canals at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u165	Indeed, it is wise to get those emotions off the table anyway. Then I think there is still the word 'eurobonds'. With that word, there seems to be only one variant of Eurobonds. Over the last few days, I have seen all kinds of proposals that could include building specific measures or support packages for countries, which, of course, could also be subject to conditions on long-term structural reforms, but which could address problems in specific countries. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Netherlands too would like to come out of the black and white debate on Eurobonds. Look with an open vision at the different solutions that can be devised. Perhaps then there is much less substantive difference between northern and southern Europe in this case, and we can also get closer to each other with very creative solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u166	I agree with what Mr Jetten has said, but I do not agree with them. I'm gonna say that sharp anyway. The reason is that I believe that this is a real step towards the transfer union, which is fundamentally different from the underlying principles of the Maastricht Treaty. It doesn't have to be, because Jetten is right to say that whatever you do, there has to be something about that. Then we do not call it 'conditionalities', and it is not all about very complicated reforms in the short term, but you do uphold the principle of aid that states say they are also doing their best to help themselves next time. But of course that's why we set up the ESM. There are also many instruments within the ESM, including the Enhanced Conditions Credit Line and all kinds of other instruments, which are precisely designed to help countries in specific circumstances. I think that putting an instrument underneath for this pandemic is not for the direct costs, which I would rather do as a gift, but also for the cost of kick-starting the economy. Then you stay within the treaties. You remain within the system of the triangle of ECB, ESM and Member States and within the division of responsibility, while those Eurobonds, also in creative forms, are truly a no-go in Vienna, Berlin and Helsinki. That also means that the discussion remains a constant one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u167	Finally. I think the most important thing is that we land where the house is on fire because of the many sick and dead, first help put out that burning house. That can indeed be done with acute financial assistance, after which we will see with them how we can build that house more firmly. I would like to add one specific question. Apart from the discussion on the problems in countries such as Spain and Italy, we have of course also seen this week that in Hungary democracy has actually been set off so that the cabinet can rule by decree. I think this is a very worrying development. I hope that this Prime Minister, with the same passion as the passion he is now passionate about financial support, will appeal to Hungary that this is really an unacceptable way to exploit the corona crisis for your own political gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u168	Yes. I can do that very formally, because the President of the Commission has now also expressed great concern about developments in Budapest, Hungary. I always think it is important that it starts with that, because it must be based on an assessment or contrary to some of the fundamental principles of the Union Treaties. Her statements seem to be echoing that. I always think it should start there, but she did. I therefore feel entitled to support the concern expressed by Mr Jetten here and, where I can do that, to take action on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u169	It is very nice that the Prime Minister has indicated that we want to make a donation to those southern European countries to contribute to the direct costs. I would like to point out that we voted here last week on a package of nearly 50 billion. The cost of public health was not included, because the direct costs of the crisis are actually quite clear, even though that sounds strange. The big costs are mainly in those second-order effects, so all those people who now lose their jobs and have no income. That is what the southern European countries need our help in. That's about very, very, very large amounts. We do not necessarily have to do that to help the people there. What plan does the Prime Minister envisage there to help these countries with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u170	I just wanted to outline this: that this is what the emergency screen is meant for and that we are also prepared like the Netherlands... Yesterday I telephoned with the German colleague Merkel for an hour. I really think you should stick to your existing instruments. If that is not enough in size, you have to see how to "stock" it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u171	Clear. If you say that there may be a need for money in the existing instruments, I think that it should be, because if you see how big the economic blow is at the moment, it will really not be enough. I would like to ask one more question about conditionality. We now see that the impact of this crisis is really due to Corona. This is about investments for three months, as we had this package. I would therefore particularly urge the Cabinet to try, as we have done, to make agreements for three months, with a possible extension of another three months. That is something other than structural support for those economies. It is necessary and we are going to talk about it in a number of months. Now we are talking about aid as we have organized in the Netherlands. I would therefore like to ask: provide the direct support needed for the next three months, with a continuation of possibly another three months. It really needs to be dealt with very quickly. If necessary, we must also add to the existing instruments, the ESM, for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u172	Agreed. Can I also outline the problem that arises here? Last week's intervention by the European Central Bank, which reduced the spreads on Italian and other interest rates, naturally shows that the direct risks to the Italian and other economies in the south have been reduced. There is currently no application for any programme. We invite you to do so. And why isn't it there? Because they say: yes, but we have another idea; we want to move on to the issue of eurobonds. That's why we have to go through that barrel somehow. I think that can be done by a combination of things. We need to have an intelligent discussion with each other about what the steps foreseen in the ESM should look like that a country needs to take in order for itself to emerge stronger from such a crisis. Because without conditions, I don't see it working, and I don't have to. At the same time, I agree with Klaver that you can, of course, also tranche that. You can phase it. You can see what it takes for the first period and what it takes for after. The tricky thing is that we can think of nice things here together, but that no country, at least until now, says it wants to make use of them. That's why I want to have that discussion. How do you get the poison out of that discussion? We need to get that out first. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Emergency Package of Jobs and Economics. I will be brief and not mention all the elements, because they are known. The question was whether we can guarantee that no entrepreneur will fall over. No, I can't do that. What I can guarantee is that we are making a package and will always try to adapt it to the current situation, to do everything we can to get good entrepreneurs through this difficult period. But honesty commands us to say that this crisis is going to hurt, also economically. There will be people who will lose their jobs, and some companies may not make it. There's no way to avoid that. If you look at what we have now put down on bazooka in the Netherlands, in financial but also in practical terms, and at how fast that goes, you can see how that can be done. I just mentioned the hospitals, who are able to turn things around in no time. For example, as a cabinet, we managed to respond in a few hours to the criticism from the retail trade, which was actually justified, and to see if we could add those sectors. Then, of course, there is the question of whether more sectors can make use of it. Named are taxi drivers and market merchants with fruit and vegetables. We constantly monitor all developments and see if we need to adjust the arrangements if conditions change, as indeed last weekend; that was just mentioned. There will always be sectors and entrepreneurs who are not exactly covered by this scheme but who are harmed, but who will then be able to use the other measures in the emergency package. These are the allowances for employers of 90% of the staff costs, the allowances for self-employed persons for loss of income, the deferred tax, the extension of credit facilities and so on. Then there was Mr Segers' question as to whether civil society organisations and voluntary organisations would also be eligible for the NOW. If they employ employees, they are entitled to benefits under this scheme, like any other employer. Costs are not wages and are therefore not covered by the schemes, but a salary is. Then there was the question about dividends. I would like to add the bonuses, because I cannot imagine that there are still people who pay bonuses on top of the normal salary. The same applies to dividends. So I understand Mrs Marijnissen's question. Nor is it in the spirit of the emergency measure, on the one hand, to obtain money from public funds and, on the other hand, to pay dividends. I therefore fully support Wouter Koolmees' appeal. I would also like to call on the companies themselves to deal properly with these arrangements. Mr Nijboer has previously tabled a motion calling on the cabinet to attach formal conditions to the possible support that will be given to companies. We are now looking at the implementation of that motion and we shall return to it as soon as possible. I have listened very carefully to Mrs Marijnissen, and I am adding the bonuses to that. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u173	Thank you. Then... oh, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u174	I had mentioned a number of other entrepreneurs, with other SBI codes. I understand from your story that it is a dynamic process and that it is constantly being looked at, but is there still room to add other SBI codes besides the additions that have taken place now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u175	Yeah, but we keep looking at that; I can't do that in Chamber debate. I have listened to what Mr Van Haga said about this, but it is not so that I can say now that we are adding it. Nor is it the case that we now add the taxi drivers after the question that has been asked. But if it hasn't happened yet, there are other arrangements that you can use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u176	I understand that, but if, for example, it turns out that delicacies see 100% turnover losses, then they are dealt with generously and then they can...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u177	I'm not going to confirm that example...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u178	No, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u179	... but in general, we will, of course, look at that, as we did last Saturday, when that big outcry of objection came about the application of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u180	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is going to follow closely that these big companies are not going to pay dividends. I would like to suggest to him that, if he does not want to accept our proposal, he should make that conditional on state aid, so at least to say: if we find that you did it afterwards, we will at least recover the money. That's my suggestion. My question is about something else. The director of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, Mr Putters, was at Nieuwsuur last week. He made the point that it was rather harsh that the people we now call the hard workers in the front line, the heroes in care and so on, were the ones who had to take the hardest hits during the previous crisis. There is, of course, a great deal of savings on care in particular. He referred to the fact that there are many people with uncertain contracts. I think he's right. Putters also made a call. He called for a fight against the corona crisis now, of course, and then, as soon as it is over, to talk about a revaluation of our public sector and about paying decent salaries to the people who are now working so hard for society as a whole. My question is whether the Prime Minister agrees. What can he offer these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u181	That is a very political question. I get it, but there's a whole world behind it, too. First of all, there is the assumption that there is no appreciation for the public sector now, but there is. I'm not one of the liberals who says you don't need a government. I believe in a strong state. This country needs a strong state. You can see that at these kinds of stages in our country, in our history, it's a good thing that strong government is there. It can act as a shield for the weak and is able to intervene decisively in such a pandemic, of course also looking for sensible measures based on all the information available to it at some point. In that sense, I feel compelled to say first that I do not feel, like Mrs Marijnissen, that there would be no appreciation for the public sector. Two. Of course, I agree with her that hard work involves a decent salary. Of course, there is another political question: what exactly is the level and so on? Perhaps I should add a more general comment. Those who think the world returns from before corona, just as it was then, live in an illusion. This crisis also offers opportunities to rethink what the world looks like next. I still have to respond to a few more political points in Mrs Marijnissen's comment. I understand and respect them. But once again, I think that there is great appreciation in the Netherlands for the public sector. That was the case before this crisis. I think there should be decent pay. You saw across the board that collective agreements were rising, especially in education, but also in health care. Let's have that debate again when we get out of this crisis. I do not believe that this will change the crisis response itself at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u182	This is your fourth question, Mrs Marijnissen, and Mr De Jonge is yet to come. I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u183	I'm aware of that, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is, of course, right. Of course, we have to fight and defeat the corona virus first. He rightly states that the government is needed; of course. But I'll take that up, because that was also Putters' plea at Nieuwsuur. It is precisely in times of crisis that people now look at the government. They say, "Protect us." That's exactly what's happening. We are now applauding for the care workers. But I was standing next to them when we had to cut back. Salaries went from €12.50 to less than €10 gross per hour. That's just reality. If we are all at the front now to applaud and to say that it is our heroes in the front line, rightly so, I think we are also obliged to say: when the corona virus is defeated, we are going to reevaluate the public sector with everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u184	Once again, there is the political view that there would be no such appreciation now, at least that is what I hear. Perhaps Mrs Marijnissen does not mean that. We are, of course, a country that is deeply socialist at its core. We have an endless transfer of money from one group to another group. I understand that, too. We have a government budget that currently accounts for about 45% of national income. In that sense, this is a deep Scandinavian country, a deep Rhineland model country. We have large transfers of money from one group to another in this country, so that there are good health care, good education and strong public services. I also feel very much at home as a liberal. In addition, I attach great importance to free enterprise-by-business production in order to ensure that the tax pot continues to be filled. I also think that decent pay should be paid. In general terms, I think that we have been working very hard on this over the last few years, thanks to the fact that we have come out of the crisis stronger. But we're not a country that spends too little on health care. We are among the countries in the world with the highest spending on health care. After America, Sweden and Japan, I believe we are in place 4 or 5 in the world. So let's not tell each other that we have a bald blow here. It really isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u185	But the question is whether the people in the workplace, who simply have to do the work in the care, have enough of that. My question is about state aid to companies and whether or not they should pay dividends. It's nice that the Prime Minister's gonna monitor it, but can he just promise that the deal is that it won't happen? If you want to continue to pay dividends, you cannot claim state aid. Or you'll have to turn it in later, a suggestion that Mrs. Marijnissen already made. I asked another question about the interest rates that banks charge when people turn red. Unfortunately, it is not an unthinkable scenario that people who normally come out very neatly with their budget and pay attention are now in trouble. Then a moral appeal is not enough. We heard the boss of the Rabobank at Buitenhof say it's all a bit difficult. And they just charge almost 13% if someone's red. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u186	I'll come back to that second one in second term, because I'm not ready for that right now. On the first point, I did not just say that we are going to monitor it. We said, "With Koolmees, I'll make a call." That's one. I'm adding bonuses to those dividends. Secondly, I have pointed out that a motion from the Labour Party has been adopted. At least I assume it was adopted because we are implementing it. 'Cause if you don't, you're not gonna make a motion. Well, maybe we liked the motion and it was put into effect anyway, but I assume it was adopted. That motion calls for formal conditions to be attached to any aid that will be granted to companies. We're watching how we're gonna do it. We'll inform the Chamber as soon as possible. As I said, the suggestions that have been made here will, of course, be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u187	Thank you for the Prime Minister's commitment that the cabinet will continue to look at how we can make this emergency window even more accessible to entrepreneurs andzzp'ers who may now be excluded. Of course, every day we get poignant examples of this: entrepreneurs from the border regions, entrepreneurs with beauty salons at home, you name it. So thank you for that commitment. The cultural sector is one of the sectors that attracts great attention. I also had an interrupting debate on this last week in the debate with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u188	I shall come back to that in the second term. I left the question out during the break. I can perhaps say briefly that I intend to return to that whole point of the cultural sector in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u189	Fine. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u190	Yes. Then my polite suggestion is to give the floor to my colleague Hugo de Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u191	I still see Mr Asscher walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u192	The Prime Minister just said something very important...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u193	Maybe you should use the other microphone. It'll be cleaned first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u194	Mr. Chairman. I very much appreciate the staff of the Chamber who are doing all this. Thank you for that! The Prime Minister just said something very important. He said, "We're not going to "back to normal" after this crisis. And that's important. As far as I am concerned, the political debates on the way he looks at this as a liberal will be postponed until the time when that acute crisis has been overcome. But "not back to normal" means we want to change a few things. A Parliamentary motion was adopted which was rightly referred to, with the votes of Van Haga and the VVD against it. It means that we want to establish the solidarity that is now being shown. It means that we are asking companies that are now receiving billions of aid to do what back. It means a social responsibility, it means not surrendering to a flex addiction again, it means making sure that people who now experience too little security, who are thus affected by this crisis, will get that certainty soon. And we will hold the cabinet to that, regardless of the support we are now giving to the cabinet in the acute crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u195	Well, that's what I have to do. I get it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u196	Thank you. We'll wait for the speaker chair to be cleaned. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is good to skip the introductory texts for a moment and go straight to the cubes. I would like to start with the subject that most of the questions have been asked about. This is about the capacity, the coordination of capacity, of all the beds that are needed. So ic and non-ic, hospital and non-hospital. I'd like to start with that. Then I'd like to go over to the block and test it on a block of vulnerable groups. Fourthly, I would like to do personal protective equipment, fifthly education, sixthly flights and last but not least because some traditions have to be honored as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u198	And on all these subjects, there are no introductions. Just answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u199	Well, say... You got it, Mr. Chairman, you got it. I think it's good to take some questions together that are about capacity. In addition, it is good, I think, to emphasise that the ic capacity is of course the most visible but that it is certainly also about the other capacity within the hospital, and certainly also about the capacity outside the hospital. We are currently asking a great deal of care as a whole, not just of our ic's. What's happening there on the ICUs is quite impressive. The agreement was made with colleague Van Rijn, with each other, with the cooperating regional hospitals to organize 2,400 places in intensive care next Sunday. That is so much more than we assumed last week and then what we thought possible! So that also really requires an extreme effort. That's what you see. I also said in the press conference yesterday: you see that it cracks and squeaks. You see that everything really needs to be pulled out of the closet to get where we need to go. Next Sunday, that's 2,400. This is necessary in view of the OMT opinion. It is necessary, although one could say that it also has an element of certainty for taking. That has to do with the evolution of the numbers over the last few days. But that's still young. I understand just now from Martin van Rijn, whom I did call in the suspension, that there are currently 1,191 corona patients on the ic. 1.191 is more than yesterday, but not as much more than we assumed the days before as something that would be possible, plus 100 per day on the ic. Nevertheless, the safest thing to do is also exactly what we have to do. That's how we get to the 2,400 next Sunday. That's 2,400 all-in, so 1,900 for covid and 2,400 in total. I would like to answer the question of whether we should not be preparing for a subsequent scenario or phase in two ways. That is also in line with the way that was discussed this morning in the hearing. The current phase is the second phase, one could say in conjunction with the Playbook Pandemic, which has recently been updated by the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, namely a phase of maximum scaling-up. It is a phase in which a high standard is actually said to bring it down a bit. We see that nursing departments are merged and that all kinds of people from other departments must also be employed who have not gone through all the trainings you would like them to go through. We also see that the supervision range needs to be stretched. We see that equipment needs to be deployed that is not used to. So you can already see that the standard is slightly lower than one would like and than one is used to, but still at a level where both the medical specialists and the inspection say it is still acceptable. Shouldn't you be preparing for the next phase? The first thing I would like to say is that I would like to extend this phase as long as possible. I also understand Mr Asscher's question and Mr Wilders' questions. You should actually want to stay at this stage as long as possible. Of course, the 2,400 of next Sunday is fantastic, but you should see if it would also be possible to go further. Of course, I feel the same tendency to be working on it. Trust me, that's what everyone who works on the ICU feels like. Everyone sees these numbers and thinks: yes, but what if we still get over them? We also see that the peak is not next Sunday. The peak's a little late. If you follow the numbers of course that are variable when you follow the projections, you see that peak is a bit later. So it's, I think, doing what we've done in the last week. Then we assumed 1,600, and see what effort we can use to get out of that 1,600 to 2,400 next Sunday. I think that we should look from day to day in this way too: what additional possibilities would there be in such a way that you can still say that it is still acceptable in quality to continue to provide for an increase in the necessary capacity? That's all to prevent you from entering phase three. That's exactly how your room is in it. That's how I heard your questions. You have to do everything you can to keep you from getting into that third phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u200	I see Mr Wilders and Mr Asscher. A lot of questions have been asked about ic capacity, so I would suggest that you answer them equally. Then I will go to Mr Wilders and Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u201	It's possible. What happens to prevent that? Everything, everything that's possible to prevent you from getting into the next phase. Yes, but there is also a third stage, a third stage in which, for the sake of capacity, you may also have to make a choice. Yeah, there's that possibility. We have to be honest with each other about that, too. There is that possibility. It is right that medical specialists should be prepared for this. That makes sense, too. At the same time, I think it is our duty to make sure that we do everything we can to prevent us from entering that phase. We also see that the inspection, with the medical specialists, is preparing. Suppose the capacity would indeed give rise to saying: now the rack is really out, now we are in the next stage. How's that supposed to work? Because let's face it, we've never gotten to that stage. The Pandemic Roadmap, which was developed in 2014, has recently been updated. It talks about a decision by the Minister to move from stage 2 to stage 3. Perhaps that is also the background to Mr Wilders' question to the Prime Minister. He asked if the Prime Minister could outline how this would work and whether he would like to be open or transparent about it in the direction of the Netherlands. My answer and our answer to that question is: of course we want to be. But we've never been to that stage. That is precisely a point of departure at the moment. I would like to assure your Chamber that, as soon as the inspection has worked this out with the Federation of Medical Specialists, I will inform your Chamber of how that works, because we have not yet reached that stage. But I also hope that the Chamber will support me in doing everything it can to prevent you from ever getting there, because that is exactly what we need. Mr Asscher asked for an order from the Minister to scale up to 3,000 beds. I don't think the relationship is that a minister orders the sector. I would like to recall how in recent weeks we have been talking very intensively with Mr Van Rijn, with Gommers and his club, with the inspector-general and with the National Network Acute Care led by Ernst Kuipers to see what is possible. That is not a matter of ordering, but it is a question of testing one another: what would really be possible and could you go further? Of course, in one hospital staff is a problem and in the other hospital that is just equipment. We'll have to do everything we can to help each other. But 2,400 is the outcome of that. That is necessary and so it is possible. That's how the conversation went. Every day you see again that there are other possibilities to add to capacity or to allow the patient flows to run in a different way, because of course you learn what the effect of treatment on the ic is and who really benefits most there and who doesn't. So I wouldn't want to see it in the terms of an assignment. But of course I also feel the need not to stop at 2,400 and think: then it is about enough. I see that as part of a daily intensive conversation that Martin van Rijn is doing 24 hours a day. He is looking into the sector to see what would be additional possible within phase 2, which we know is lower than we would like, but the quality of which is still just acceptable. Anything to prevent you from entering phase 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u202	How many questions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u203	A few more, Mr. Chairman. When and on what basis will there be a ministerial decision on the critical phase? The inspector general is currently working that out with the KNMG and the Federation of Medical Specialists. I would like to say to you, also in the direction of Mr Wilders, that we should return to your Chamber. Then the German ic's. I'll check all the questions right away. Can we use the German ic's as well? I indicated last week that we are indeed talking to Germany, at all levels. The Prime Minister has been in contact with the Prime Minister of Lower Saxony. Mr Van Rijn has been in contact with his colleagues in Lower Saxony and in North Rhine-Westphalia. I've been in touch with Jens Spahn myself. Hospital capacity is organized there at the level of the Bundesländer. It has actually been said that, of course, we have a reciprocal cooperation. That has always been the case, and it is now. There is, of course, a limit to this, because in the end ic-spots will also have to be used for German patients. That's understandable, too. At the moment we are working out on paper what is possible there, but the first patients have already been placed there and the collaboration actually runs along the line of hospitals. As far as I'm aware, two patients are currently placed in German hospitals. Is it true that the ventilator was ordered too late? That question was asked by Mrs Marijnissen in response to the signal from Philips at Op1. VWS has always taken an alert attitude towards what is needed for care. This is true of personal protective equipment, where you saw a run on the market of personal protective equipment and where everything and everyone in the world was looking for the stuff involved. This also applies to test capacity, which we discussed extensively last week, but it certainly also applies to ventilation equipment. Normal purchasing always runs through hospitals, of course. Those who had exact contact with those hospitals at the beginning of March... I assume with their own suppliers, but that also depends on the type of brand one uses. But when we saw that such national control was needed in the market for personal protective equipment and that it was so complicated to get supplies there, we intervened in mid-March. I think it was the day you had that deliberate debate with Minister Bruins that could not be concluded at that time. I went on the phone myself with a whole series of manufacturers. Then, within 24, 48 hours, we ordered 1,000 devices, apart from a formal responsibility that VWS has in them, as a precaution, because we saw that that market, like the market for personal protective equipment, was collapsing so massively. In short, as of mid-March, VWS has attracted the purchase of additional ventilators. Then about those models, which initially assumed ten days of lying. This was also explained by Jaap van Dissel this morning. RIVM made a model before the first patient was present in the Netherlands. So we had to do it with foreign data. We worked together with the Imperial College London, Harvard and the WHO. So we had to do it with data from abroad until Dutch data were available. In the beginning this average lag time was therefore not yet known. From the moment that average lag time was known, it has been raised to 23 days. It's been since March 19th. That has indeed done something with the models. That was after the moment VWS took on the purchasing role for the ventilators. Only then did the models pass through the roof of the maximum ic-capacity. Are we prepared to work on emergency hospitals, Mr Asscher asks. We already ordered the Directors of Public Health two weeks ago to develop options for additional capacity. That's actually about capacity outside the hospital. Last Monday, I agreed with all the Directors of Public Health that a regional coordination will be set up that understands the national coordination centre, so that we can keep this in view. It's about corona centers and special departments within existing care institutions, actually to Brabant's model. Here too, Brabant really shows us the way. More than 800 places outside the hospitals have been created there. It is about people who are not necessarily dependent on a hospital in terms of medical necessity, but for example because of vulnerability or because of care with whom this is difficult to arrange, unable to be treated or nursed at home. They need a location. This type of site is therefore organised in each region, and regional coordination is also regulated in each region. I think I've had a lot of questions about this, Mr. Chairman. I think we should leave it at that. Otherwise, I'm going to elaborate a lot on other topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u204	You already have. Then I'll go to Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u205	You've already done that. I would like to know what the dates on which you ordered those ventilators have been. I'd like to know those dates anyway, because I think it would be very weird if that only happened two weeks ago. Let's get back to the ICUs. I agree with the Minister that it is very good that he is trying to stay in phase 2 as long as possible. But we have heard this morning from Mr Van Dissel that the summit at the ICI will probably be held in mid-April or 1 May, as it is called. What does he think that means? Then we'll need 2,400 spots on the ICUs for corona patients. With the non-corona patients added, you get to 3,000. We have heard Mr Gommers say before that he does not know whether this can be done in the Netherlands and that we will have a crisis. Despite all the good will of you to take care of it together with the hospitals to probably get there to be 2,400 next Sunday, is my question: is that going to work? Couldn't it be that we're going over that next week or the next week and we're going towards the 3,000? Could it be that that code black, which we all don't want, doesn't it look you in the eye after all? You say to the Chamber that you will send it to the Chamber, but shouldn't you just do it over the next few days? Last week we thought we would have enough this week at 1,600. Now, contrary to what we thought then, five days later it turns out to be not 1,600 but 2,400. So it can just get out of hand again and move towards the 3,000. So not only Mr Asscher's question as to whether we are going to the 3.000 is justified, but also the question of how you are preparing for it. Shouldn't you start that now? Should the Chamber and therefore the Netherlands not be informed of this earlier? Are you willing to do that? Can you give us access to that plan, that terrible plan of that code black, whereby we have to refuse people help, in the coming days, and not only us but also the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u206	This is where I think we should take two roles apart. The first is the medical-content role around the question of what good care is and how we can provide that care in the best possible way. It is discussed both in phase 2 and in phase 3. In phase 2, it is discussed in the inspection conversation with the Federation of Medical Specialists, where it is said that this is no longer the quality we would really like to offer, but what is acceptable given the circumstances? Further elaboration of Phase 2 is one of the actions that is currently taking place. What's acceptable? The second thing that is currently happening is to work out phase 3. Imagine there's only one bed left and you have two patients. Then a choice will have to be made. Not by age, of course, but on whom the best chances of survival are. That's the triage model. That is, of course, not a political decision, but always a medical decision. What I naturally pledge to the Chamber is that I will inform the Chamber about this before it enters that stage. My impression is that I can just do that when it's worked out and that this will be normal the next time I inform the Chamber. Then that will be the effect such as the inspection, the Federation of Medical Specialists and the KNMG who have created it. That'll be it. This includes an opinion from the inspector on how to move from one stage to another. The NVIC says this requires a decision from the minister. The law doesn't provide for that at the moment. There is no legal basis for that at the moment. Whether or not this really requires a decision, I doubt it because it is, of course, a medical decision. Nevertheless, I would like to look at that. I'd be happy to be advised by the inspection. I understand that the doctors want support in this, because it is very different from normal medical practice. In short, the inspection will work it out. If that stage starts earlier than next Wednesday, I will of course report it to the Chamber; of course. Your question is whether I want to be transparent about this. Yes, I do. But you will encourage me, I think, to do everything possible to extend Phase 2 for yourself and for Mr Van Rijn in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u207	Yes. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u208	Sure, it's very good to extend phase 2 as long as possible. But I say again that we saw it last week. We thought: 1,600 for next Wednesday and 2,400 somewhere in one and a half months, or even late May, early June. Those 2,400 are gonna be needed by next Sunday. So those figures can, without a doubt, get an acceleration that will put us ahead of it. I appreciate the Minister's saying that we will come up with this by next Wednesday and perhaps earlier. And of course that's a medical decision. I am not a physician, so I have looked at the criteria that are then used. There are already criteria spread among doctors. It includes, for example, people who have "different light complaints," which reduces their prospects of recovery. That's pretty far. I do not think that we should sit here in the chair of doctors, but it must be transparent. People in the Netherlands need to know what the criteria are and what they are waiting for, even if it is not us who judge them, but it is the doctors who judge them. Not for nothing do they ask for your support, law or not. I thank the Minister for that, and I am also counting on us to have it next week, together with the criteria. My question is about what else we can do to get more beds. The minister was just talking about Germany. I have an article for me, Mr. Minister, from your colleague Mr. Spahn, the Federal Minister for Public Health. He says that in Germany at the moment half of the 25,000 beds they have there are not filled yet. There are 27 000 beds, 23 000 of them with ventilation equipment for people with corona. They expect it to run up in the next few weeks, but they still have a large excess capacity. There are now two Dutch patients in Germany, and we are grateful to the Germans for that. But isn't it also important, apart from all the other efforts, to see if more than those two patients can be placed in Germany? Again, there are hundreds of places left in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u209	That's one of the possibilities. We were asked what we're doing extra to extend that phase 2, and how we're doing everything we can to prevent you from entering phase 3. The route to Germany is one of the possibilities. We only do that along the line of cooperation between hospitals. So I'm not gonna have the conversation where I say we want so many beds. I don't think that's a useful conversation either. When you ask that question, you run the risk of getting an answer that you'd rather not hear. So we also need to do a little bit of working away from the cooperation relationship between the hospitals that already exist in the border regions. But the answer is yes, indeed. But I would like to come back to the figures, Mr President, because otherwise it will stick. The 2,400 has different meanings. The 2,400 of next Sunday is 2,400 including regular emergency care. And with that 1,900 ic-beds for corona, for COVID patients. The 2,400 that is currently seen as the most realistic peak would fall on May 1 if you follow the forecasts. These forecasts may, of course, be variable, but according to these forecasts, the peak would be on 1 May. That's 2,400 out of corona. This is based on the increase in ic-spots as we have seen in the last few days. Whether that increase continues, we will just have to see again in the next few days. So we need to be very precise about the numbers. Then there's something about the backup. I would like to say that very precisely. What do doctors need? Standards are laid down in the professional directives. Doctors can normally be held to this by the inspection, also under disciplinary law. If doctors are forced to deviate from these standards, they must receive the support of the same inspection. At the stage when doctors have to deviate from that, we are now. Doctors say: if we have to do something as unnatural to us as in phase 3, then we need that transition. You could say that in a formal sense, based on the law, it is not, because there is always a medical-content decision. But I get it. It is precisely for this reason that the inspection advises us on how to shape this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u210	I am about to give Mr Wilders the floor. But the MPs have a limited number of interruptions. I would very much appreciate it if we could simply give specific answers to the questions. I do not want a number of questions simply to remain unanswered because the Members of Parliament are through their interruptions. You've just started speaking for almost half an hour, but there are six other topics on the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u211	Sure, but I think this was the most important issue. And it's also important to be very precise about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u212	Exactly, indeed, to be precise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u213	Exactly. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u214	One final question in this round, Mr President. And it is right that a lot of colleagues also want to ask questions about it to the Minister. Look, Mr. Secretary. Those 3,000, or no matter how many there are, we hope it's all not necessary, but it could just happen. I predict that this is going to be a huge job, not only in terms of beds but also in terms of people who can handle it. You know that better than I do. Already you can see that nurses on the ICUs should help three or four people and be responsible for equipment, beds and oxygen. That is going to be very difficult, and it may not even work. So I would like to ask you what you actually did with the ventilators, which you left to the hospitals first, and when things went wrong, you started to direct yourself a little more, too, with countries like Germany. Because it cannot be that everything comes together, for example the elderly who may need a place and be compromised. Germany and perhaps other countries can help more than they are doing now, especially if they have enough places for their own people and have places left. I would therefore ask you to take the phone to your colleague more often and see what else is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u215	No misunderstanding: that's exactly what we're doing. That's what we're working on right now. Mr Van Rijn is working on this, also on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u216	The Minister is right to express a great deal of appreciation for what the concern is now doing. There miracles are performed in a very short time. I share those compliments, but I'm not asking him to give random assignments, but I'm asking him to work out a scenario. Because the graphs show a peak with which the probability is quite high that we are going over that crisis capacity. So the question is whether the Minister is prepared to work out such a scenario within a week. This includes a compelling aid appeal to Germany; it does not work to see what is possible in the border region, but a compelling appeal to Germany if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u217	Yes, that compelling appeal has been made. No misunderstanding about that: that compelling appeal has been made, but don't translate that as: and so we want to have so many beds of yours; that must be these numbers. That's not a sensible way of working. Because then the reaction from Germany will be: yes, but we may still need those beds if the ic capacity is needed in Germany as well. So we do that in a sensible way. But the goal is no different from the way you describe it. Of course, you think about everything that might be needed if you get above that 2,400. That's possible, isn't it? So you're making sure of that, too. What Van Rijn is doing is actually seeing from day to day what extra is possible. Is it extra possible on top of that 2,400? I think that there may still be things to be done, but not for the sector as a whole, for example, but concentrated in a number of academic centres, in which you will go even further, because it will make it even more exciting whether you can still meet quality standards. You may need to make much more precise agreements about this in a concentrated number of places in the Netherlands. That could be an option. If you ask me to think through those scenarios, I say that is exactly what Van Rijn is doing every day to see how you could take that next step after Sunday. But I am not in favour of putting a number on that, because I think I will ask the sector to do so. We have looked Gommers and his colleagues and Kuipers and his colleagues deeply in the eye. Last Monday we came to the deal: 2,400 per next Sunday. We'll get it first. That's what all the energy's focused on first. But could it be that you'll have more after that... yes, that might indeed be so. That is also why, learning from the opportunities that have arisen in the last week, we are looking at how we could actually stretch it even further and how we could extend it even further. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u218	No one can be held to the impossible. At the same time, we see all kinds of people now performing the impossible. We appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u219	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u220	The question to the Minister, to the Cabinet, to the whole team is not to put it down to the care. I understand that you can ask no more than what one is doing now... but to work out the scenario, because we see that those figures are so variable and that there is a peak coming. The way it looks right now, we can't handle it. Since it is not defined what the decision to go to code black looks like, I ask the Minister to come up with those scenarios within a week to increase that capacity. I understand that you can't just turn 3,000 into care right now, but I'll leave it with you. Because if you read the graphs, we're gonna have to take that into account, no matter how horrible that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u221	This is what we're doing. So the answer to your question is yes, of course. Thought doesn't stand still, because even after Sunday you may have to provide more places than that 2,400. The possibilities to further increase that capacity are of course explored; they are explored every day. So the answer to that question is yes. The only thing I don't want to commit to is a numerical assignment or even the term "command." I seemed to hear that in the first term, but I don't put a number on that. So a scenario for "what's next after 2,400?': Yes, of course. That's exactly what we're doing, but without a number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u222	It wasn't meant to be a language game or to ask for anything impossible. It was inspired by how we went from "in control" two and a half weeks ago to "back against the wall" a week ago and now to "we can't really do anything more than 2,400." That's a two-and-a-half week period. That means I'm asking you to make a scenario to get to that 3,000 without being easy to wrap around. This should include the maximum in the direction of Germany and the maximum in the use of devices. I understand that at the stage we are now in, compromises need to be made that you would not have to close outside a pandemic like this. That's what it's about. The assignment was yours and not yours. I can see how these people are working their way out of the seam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u223	I understand the assignment to me, but to realize that mission to me, I still need the care. Developing a scenario that goes beyond 2,400 is, of course, the day-to-day work that we are already faced with. That is the answer to your question. What we might be able to do with the care, also draws a bit over the past week. Last week we talked about 1,600. That was about the maximum there was at the time. Meanwhile we are talking about 2,400 next Sunday. So I am also counting on creativity to continue to work. You also see that creativity increases further. That makes me say that there must of course, certainly, be a scenario for after the 2,400, but without a numerical objective being immediately attached to it. I cannot do that at the moment, because it would go beyond the discussion we are currently having with the sector and could also have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u224	Fifth question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u225	I know what the Minister's saying. He's actually saying that the thin line with which I'm asking more and more of the care can break if I stick a number on it too quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u226	That's exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u227	But we're talking about the same thing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u228	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u229	We're looking at the same graphs. We see that 3,000 is unfortunately outlined as a realistic scenario by the end of this month, at least in this morning's briefing. That's what we're talking about. So, without that line breaking, we need to find ways to make that scenario within a week. In this way, you will make clear within a week how we go from one stage to another, because that is indeed a decision of yours. Let's look for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u230	It's two different things, but that's how you see it. One is how we go beyond 2,400. The other is the development of phase 3. And what does that suppose to be a ministerial role?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u231	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u232	Full support for us to try to stay in phase 2 as long as possible and to postpone that black scenario as long as possible. I'd like to go back to that. I understand very well that doctors, and certainly the staff in intensive cares of us as politicians, are asking to choose when stage 3. Because it takes quite a lot of people who are fighting in front of us every day on the front line of care, to enter a phase that they have never experienced, as the Minister rightly said. We heard today at the technical briefing that the protocol for the third stage is already being worked on. It is expected that this week could be completed by the inspection, the KNMG and the FMS, if I am right. The Minister has just promised someone else that he will inform us as soon as that phase begins. I would also like to ask him to really inform us with maximum transparency about how the three parties agree on this protocol. I'm getting worried questions about that from people. Are those just doctors? Are those just doctors? Is that gonna include ethicists? Which people are at the table when such a protocol comes into force. Hopefully we won't need it, but maybe we will. Could the Minister promise that the Chamber and thus the whole of Dutch society will simply be taken to the maximum into account in how that protocol was established and what that looks like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u233	That was indeed a question from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u234	Maximum transparency is really the only way we can do this. So the answer is just yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u235	Maximum transparency... Now I think I remember asking three questions last week about which variables were so different that we would actually be going through the limit of ic capacity very quickly. In one way or another, I have received a slightly different response from the Prime Minister three times, namely that there are all kinds of variables, that there are some tweaks and tunes. I conclude from this that the Health Minister already knew on 19 March that we would be heading for those 2,400 patients. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u236	But the Chamber also knew, because the modifications were simply shared in the technical briefings. Speaking of maximum transparency! So the modifications are just shared in all the technical briefings. The RIVM has adapted, it has had to work with foreign data until Dutch data could be made available. This means that after the first infection in the Netherlands and the first ICI placement in the Netherlands it took a while until you saw that in the Netherlands the ICI placements last longer than abroad. Van Dissel explained that this morning. That has everything to do with the age structure in the Netherlands and also with the choices that doctors make. That's just being followed by the RIVM. So before there were Dutch data, they were international data. From the moment there were Dutch data, these were Dutch data. And every time a model has been modified, it's also just shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u237	That did not become clear to me, while I was present at the briefing last time. This time it is quite clear to me. It also appeared in a press release on the weekends. Someone who makes the models for the RIVM says in that: we have now adapted them from 10 days of lying to 23 days of lying; that matters a lot. If you take in 100 people every day with 23 days of lying and you take out the mortality there, you will soon come towards the 2,000. So you always reach that point. I didn't have that sharp last time. I tried to figure that out, but I couldn't. Well, let me ask you something. I heard Mr Gommers say this morning: there are still hospitals holding the cards against the chest. Can the Minister indicate that after today it is simply impossible to do so and that hospitals too are as transparent as possible about the capacity and cooperate in this national coordination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u238	Yes. I think that was also a question from Mr Heerma. How do we do that from that nationwide coordination centre? One way to go is care capacity.nl, where three times a day the number of beds is actually passed on. The second way is 2TWNTY4. This is an ICT solution that makes the bed capacity easy to understand in real time. Now, of course, everything depends a bit on the registration. In addition, you have the NICE data. Everything, of course, depends a bit on the registration. It's very understandable that a doctor helps a patient first and then does his paperwork instead of the other way around. But it is important to understand in all possible ways the amount of beds available. And if it's unclear, there's got to be a call. In short, there are several lines from the LPCS, from the rural coordination center to know what the bed capacity is, to prevent people from holding cards against the chest, because we need to know how many beds are available. And yes, the answer is: they do so from the national coordination centre as best they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u239	Finally, my final question. We heard today that doctors call older people who are already ill and that they are asked: if you get the coronavirus, do you want to be admitted to intensive care in the hospital? The question is: is that related to that peak or is that just an autonomous development in doctors themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u240	This is what doctors always do. It's called advanced care planning. An ugly word; forget that right away. That's when you talk to people: what if you get sick later? All the people in the nursing homes had that conversation. They've all had that. They indicate: when it really comes to ventilation, for example, when it really comes to ic-recording, I prefer not to have it anymore. It's possible. But that's a conversation that doesn't take place from an age. That is what Mr Krol and Mr Wilders are right to draw attention to. That doesn't have anything to do with age. It is true that you first have that conversation as a doctor, as a general practitioner, with your vulnerable patients. And what was a bit unlucky last weekend is that the NHG also said it seemed like that call was being made by phone. This has indeed happened a number of times in practice. It's not a call to make. This is a conversation to do one-on-one, to do face-to-face. This is certainly not something that could be written. Not at all. Last weekend, I believe, last Thursday or Friday, there was a webinar between the general practitioners, in which experiences were exchanged about the way in which such a conversation can be held and about the importance of such a conversation. We are indeed very focused on those ic-recordings. The stories I hear from the doctors on the ICU are that it's a marathon. It's a marathon a day. It's 10,000 calories. You don't have muscles after a few weeks. It is an enormous effort by the people who are going to be on the ice. Is it even conceivable that, if you're already vulnerable, you can get out of there in a good way? That is very much the question. So having that conversation as a doctor is a very good conversation to have, but it's a substantive conversation. So it should never have anything to do with capacity. Never! So it has to be a substantive conversation, a medical conversation. That is the background to it and that is how the NHG itself explained that in my opinion EenVandaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u241	Then I'll go to the interruptions. I have first Mr Segers, then Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Klaver, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Krol. Mr Segers first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u242	It is crucial that we now communicate in all honesty, also about what we do not know, about what we do not know yet and about all the complexity, for example about capacity. Mr Wilders has indeed rightly pointed out the capacity that would already be available in Germany. If we are all afraid of the black scenario that has been discussed today, it could take away something from the pressure if you indicate what space is still there. Brightness at that point would therefore help. But I am also referring to fair information to people who are in fact in favour of that choice. In a program like Op1 I found that it was said: you also have to talk to your parents about it and you have to think for yourself about what you do when you are at that choice. What responsibility does the Minister himself see in promoting that conversation, that difficult conversation, in the living rooms where that consideration has to be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u243	I think we should take the roles apart here, too. It is explicitly a role for the medical professionals to have this conversation, and those conversations are also being held. All professional associations are currently instructing themselves to have that type of conversation. That's very special to see. Ester Bertholet........................................................................................................................... It's used, too. There are many more examples of how you conduct that conversation. I think this really is the domain of the medical professional. On the contrary, I would be very reluctant to sit on that chair as a political government. The same applies to the drafting of the directive for that stage 3 which we have just discussed. Also, this is a medical interview, which has been cancelled by the inspection, of course; that is also the task of the inspection. But the political governance and the organizational side of the concern must be involved in maximising potential capacity, so that we can push out the possibility of going to phase 3 for as long as possible, and we can work out for the wave all the time. That's our job. That's how I see our work. But the content of the conversation is up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u244	I think that responsibility is twofold. First of all, there is a responsibility when it comes to capacity. We're talking about that black scenario. Then it will indeed help, as I say in the vein of Mr Wilders, if we also have a better view of the space that Germany could offer. Once again, we see the importance of European cooperation. So that would help. But if we focus on capacity like this, we can also unintentionally send out the signal: once you get the ic, you'll be fine. But the honest story is, of course, that it's not so sure if you're gonna make it. That's what I hear in the doctors' stories. These are therefore extremely painful and sensitive considerations. I fully agree with the Minister that we should not make that assessment and should not prescribe it. But that which must be weighed up and that we must all ask that question, including with our own loved ones, in our own circle, must be communicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u245	I very much agree with that, but I also see that this conversation is taking place. Unfortunately I don't have enough time for it, but these days late at night watch the talk shows, to Jinek or Op1, or look at EenVandaag for example. These are all programs in which professionals get the space to tell about their profession and the complex dilemmas in their profession and to tell about the need to have that conversation. I don't think there's any talk of how great it is to get that ic. I have the impression that the conversation about the need to think about these other forms of concern, the need to have the talk on time about whether you really want to and whether you actually know what you are choosing, is now more than ever on national television, all over the place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u246	My question is essentially a question for clarification. I was following this, and there were actually three things mixed up for me: phase 3, code black and those numbers. Those numbers are getting a little unhappy. I don't think we're thinking now: Phase 2 can only be 2,400 beds in the Netherlands. I'd like to see that confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u247	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u248	That could be more, as much as possible. I think there is also full awareness on the part of the Minister that we are going to do everything that can be done at that stage 2. You're just gonna start talking to each other, you know, why don't we go to the 2,400 first? Stage 3 then comes up with the difficult choices it was just about to make. I understand the need for transparency, but I would like to point out that in that conversation between ethicists, doctors and the inspection, who give advice, there should not be anything sneaking around like: the Chamber very much wants the protocol to become clear; that is a checklist. I think it's always a conversation and a medical choice of the doctor on the spot with the patient and/or family. It's nice if we never need it. Let's start with that. I understand the point of transparency, but it does not allow it to become a sort of checklist or to allow everyone to see on-line what criteria are being or are not being applied. So that we're giving the backup, but not limiting the space that the professional has. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u249	I very much agree with that and I would like to add something to that. Nor should that be the introduction to sit on the chair of that medical professional. In the Netherlands we really know a wonderful system in which politics is about the accessibility of care, the affordability of care and about the system of quality standards, but not about the quality itself. We never have a political debate here about what is the best operation, how treatment should take place or what is the latest state of science. That's not our job. We shouldn't sit on that chair. However, we must support medical practitioners when it comes to possible disciplinary consequences. That is why I am in favour of working out that way of thinking. Sure, we should definitely do that. That's what the inspection should do with the Federation of Medical Specialists and the KNMG. I have already promised to be transparent about this in the direction of the Chamber. But I also say that it is our job to ensure that the possibilities within that second phase are maximised. That's our job. And indeed, 2,400 is not the maximum, I hope. I hope there's even more there. I just don't want to put it on the industry as an objective right now. I'd like to work for that every day. I have just promised Mr Asscher that he will, of course, take up the appropriate scenarios and develop them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u250	Thank you. Then there is the question of the legal form, whether or not it is necessary. The minister said he has doubts as to whether that is formally necessary. I felt some resurrection in the hall. Can we agree here that we are simply giving legal support as solidly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u251	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u252	And then we'd rather be more formal than necessary, but not look at what's the lightest form. Then we choose full back support and rather a legal overshoot than something to regret afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u253	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u254	The RIVM indicates in the graph we received that it is not a question of whether we are going over the ic-capacity, but that it is actually certain. So far, all the predictions of RIVM have never been met, and that is not a reproach. Actually, expectations have always exceeded. It's been two weeks since I asked in this Chamber about the relationship with Germany. Last week, I asked about it, too. The minister said they're working on it. And every time we get the same answer, which is that hospitals have to arrange this between themselves. These are two people who have now been brought from the Netherlands to Germany. We know there are 2,400 beds in the second phase. That's what the medical specialists say: this is actually what we can handle. Now we all say here: stretch it up, stretch it up, I get it, but I find it uncomfortable somewhere too, but the medics say that it's so pinched, that it's almost impossible. Shouldn't there be much more central direction, perhaps from that nationwide coordination centre, to ensure that we bring more people to Germany, because the pressure is already so high in Dutch hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u255	Not only do we do it through cooperation with hospitals, but we do so along the political line. What I don't do is place an order from "I want so many places" because I know that that doesn't work. So that's what we shouldn't do. What we need to focus on is the goal that we have, namely to give as many patients as possible a place there eventually when it is needed. And if you want to achieve that goal, you always have to choose the right path. That is why I do not say to you: I will make an appointment about numbers. That is not the way to deal with this, but we must, along the lines of substantive cooperation, ensure that you are ready to show solidarity. I believe it was Rob Jetten who emphasised solidarity. I believe that is important. I also believe that it is increasingly important when it comes to sharing equipment, including across borders. This appeal can, of course, also be made at some point, including from Germany. So I am committed to making a reciprocal agreement with Germany: we help where we can and where that is necessary. Such an agreement is currently being worked out on paper by Mr Van Rijn. And yes, that is indeed one of the possibilities to extend phase two to the maximum. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u256	This question was put by Mr Wilders, Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. So that is a question that is asked every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u257	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u258	I also see that colleagues have as few interruptions as possible. Will there be a concrete commitment to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u259	I think I have already made that specific commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u260	Which is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u261	I'll work it out. Mr Van Rijn is working it out. We'll get back to that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u262	Okay. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u263	I'm gonna have to get something off my chest. Two weeks ago, I was asked what I was saying: three weeks ago, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Last week, we asked for this. We are constantly told: we are working on it, we are working on it. Two people have been placed there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u264	This is really not right. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u265	Two people. The pressure on the ICUs is already very high. I understand that it has to come back next week, but I really, really want to ask: make sure that people don't sit at the end of those 2,400 people, but can already be evicted. It also gives air to all the people who are now working on the ic's they have to go for a very long time, it is a marathon so that they do not completely overworked into the next stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u266	I'd like to say here that this is just in the letter you received last night. In it, what we have done about it has been worked out very extensively. The fact that no more than two have been placed is because we have been able to increase capacity in the Netherlands. There are now 1,191 people on the ICUs. More space has been made suitable on the ic's to place people. There were two patients moving in that direction last week, but it was agreed that more patients could be placed along the line of cooperation between hospitals. In short, the air is already needed. The deal's already been made. That agreement is now being worked out on paper. I'll come back to that next week. The fact that we have been working on Germany for a long time is described in detail in last night's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u267	You can come back to that in your second term, Mr. Klaver. I shall go to Mrs Ouwehand, then to Mr Van der Staaij and then to Mr Krol. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u268	Fortunately we haven't seen this before, so I admit it's the first time I've read such a pandemic script, but I think it's good to get things really clear. I understood from Mr Gommers' presentation this morning that we must distinguish between the codes. We are talking mainly about the three stages of care provision. Conventional: then the quality is completely in order. Scale up: that's what we're in now; then we're using the acceptable quality rule, but mistakes are also being made. And there's the crisis phase. Do I understand the Minister that he is responsible for deciding whether or not to proceed to the crisis phase, and that the specialists are currently working out the frameworks for what this crisis phase looks like and what choices we are going to make in the care sector? Is it the responsibility of this minister to decide to go from a scale to a crisis phase?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u269	I think I just explained that. The content of phase 3 and what directive should be used when making that choice....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, doctors have said: before you get to that stage, we actually want the Minister to make the decision. I explained that the law does not provide for this at the moment. It might be possible that it has to be. Mr Dijkhoff referred to this point and said: perhaps you should want to give maximum legal support. I can imagine that, because it concerns directives which are also disciplinaryly enforceable by the inspection. The inspection is working that out for us right now. I'll come back to that next week when that wears off. I'm assuming that this week we'll be able to work that out. I will come back next week to the question of how we could shape this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u270	It is good that the Minister should also mention disciplinary law, because my question is also about the stage we are currently in. We heard of this this morning that there is a greater risk of errors, because people working on the ic normally have to take care of two patients and now three or four. So there's a greater chance of error. Is that completely covered by the inspection, I wonder. The second is about what I just asked for, because I read explicitly in the script, and so we heard this morning that the transition from phase 2 to stage 3 is being declared by the Minister of Health. Now I hear the Minister say a few times: yes, we still have to look at it and you will hear from me. However, it seems that the Dutch Association of Intensivists assumes that this minister makes that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u271	Yeah, and that's what they say because they think it's important to get that backup from a ministerial decision. And I get that. I'm just saying that the law doesn't provide for that right now. It is a wish of the medical specialists I understand, but at the moment the law does not provide for it. How we will have to do that is for further elaboration. It is currently being prepared by the inspection in consultation with the Federation of Medical Specialists and the KNMG. When it comes to phase two, you're right. There too, the conversation has actually gone from "doing good" to "doing good, given the circumstances." That is really another way of working for doctors, who already feel restless, also in relation to disciplinary law. That is why the inspection is currently working out how that quality is no longer exactly what it should be, but it remains at a level that you can say is still acceptable. Also that there is a substantive discussion between the inspection and the Federation of Medical Specialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u272	On this last point, is there really a need for an explicit legal basis for such a decision? Or can it also be that, on the basis of what the inspector-general says, a more political decision is taken, so that further disciplinary questions and so on are clear that there is also political support and that it has not just been a technical assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u273	That is quite possible indeed. That's exactly why we really need to figure this out. At the moment, therefore, the law does not provide for this. So the question is: do you have to change the law for that or can you offer that legal basis, that legal backing, in another way? That is being worked out at the moment and I shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u274	Good. If you have to create a separate legal basis, it will of course take time. I can imagine that in these circumstances this would also be possible without an explicit legal basis. But that's what you'll come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u275	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u276	My follow-up question is about the subject that was also raised here, those talks about whether it is medically useful to continue to receive this intensive care treatment. The discussions here have already shown that at the moment this is very much clouded by the capacity debate. Those two are gonna get all mixed up. How can people regain confidence that this is really a serious medical assessment? My specific question is: could patients' associations also play a role in this? Could they be supported to answer those questions so that they can say that it is also a meaningful route from a patient perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u277	You're absolutely right. You have to be very careful that those two discussions are clouded. That is why I would like to say that these medical discussions are really the domain between patient and doctor; I have done so a number of times. You could say that doesn't belong in this room, but in the treatment room. We need to keep these two apart. What we need to do is to maximize capacity. What needs to be done there is to talk about medically meaningful action. I think it is a very good suggestion to involve the Patient Federation. I think they're involved, too, but I'll check that out for you. Because that's where the conversation has to take place. We ourselves must be careful not to confuse these discussions by feeding them ourselves. We have the capacity to maximize. That must be all about what I have to discuss or what Van Rijn has to discuss with the hospitals, with the doctors. And it must be in the process of talking about medically meaningful action. The connection between these two is the inspector general, who, on our behalf, has to monitor the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u278	For my constituents, those letters and phone calls to the elderly are really the most disturbing, even to the elderly who are not yet complaining at all. That's also what I get most emails about. The Minister makes it very clear that age does not matter as far as he is concerned. I suppose he means that doctors should only look at the condition. They always have, and rightly so, because recording is no fun. But can I get this straight? The doctors say it came from the government. Wasn't it the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u279	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u280	Wasn't it one of the departments under the Ministry? Why do doctors tell me anything other than what you say? Because I think we're in fact in agreement, but I want to completely remove that fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u281	No, it's the Dutch Family Doctors Society, the NHG, that invented this conversation. They have also indicated that this is a normal way of doing things. They always do this. They have the conversation with people, advanced care planning. I have already mentioned that ugly term, which contains something very beautiful, before. They talk to people about what it does to them when they need to be admitted. That conversation is a medical-content conversation, so that's not instruction from the department. You can't do that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u282	Not from the department, but not from any of the departments in the department?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u283	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u284	I'm so anxious to remove that uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u285	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u286	I'm even considering making a motion, unless you give me a firm guarantee that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u287	It would therefore be very strange to table a motion on this, because then we will make a ruling on it. It really is the medical domain. It's the doctor-patient conversation. That's not the domain we belong to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u288	Last question, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u289	I think it would be a good idea to make a statement on this, even if it is only to give the elderly a heartbeat. Age itself can never be the criterion, as the Minister himself said. I got an e-mail from a lady who wrote the following. "My mother of 86 was called by a practical assistant who said, after she had asked how she was doing: aren't you lonely and have you thought about whether you want to go into intensive care? That's not really like people your age. You should then actually be cared for at home or at worst died." I can see why this is giving people the creeps. Not even a GP, not even in person, an assistant. You get a call from the announcement: it's not really for you. I know that the Minister actually thinks that this is not possible. I would like to hear from the Minister, because a lot of elderly people are now looking at age as never a criterion, by whomever they are called. Would you like to get rid of that idea once and for all? This 86-year-old lady's back is all she's got. She's fine. She's perfectly healthy. The mere fact that someone is over 80 can never be a reason to refuse him or her on the ic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u290	Agreed. Totally. Vulnerability is, but age isn't. Shall we ask the Dutch Family Doctors Society to respond to this e-mail, also publicly? It has been said itself: this is not a conversation to make by telephone or by letter; this is a conversation you have at the kitchen table, with people close to you. So let's ask the Dutch Family Doctors Society to respond to this e-mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u291	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u292	Yeah, I'm fine. Through the messenger... no, Mr. Wilders, because otherwise I'm gonna have a fight with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u293	I just need to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u294	A point of order? Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u295	I will give that e-mail to the Minister, but I will ask him to do so formally; that is also what she is asking for to be done away with the name of that lady.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u296	Yeah, or course. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u297	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u298	Mr. Chairman. Shall we go to block two? You've been ready for a while, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u299	Yes, but Mrs. Marijnissen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u300	I think the Minister has missed one question from me. It was about the ventilation equipment that Philips was supposed to deliver. He did answer the question about the deadline, namely whether it was not a bit late to order those two weeks ago, but he did not answer the other part of the question I had asked, about the changing signals we are getting about the direct employability of those devices on the ic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u301	I think Gommers has already responded to that this morning. He said they're actually useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u302	But she wants to hear it from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u303	Yes, the point is that we are getting varying signals. We heard Gommers this morning, of course. In the meantime, we have understood from several hospitals that they are not usable on the ic and therefore my question was: how many of those supplied devices can be used on the ic?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u304	Shall we really leave this type of question to the professionals? If the chairman of the Dutch association for ic-doctors says that they are useful on the ic, will we just do it with that answer? That just seems the most useful thing to me, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u305	Well, let's see. Last question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u306	I hope not, Madam President, because I had already asked that question in the first term, but the Minister does not want to answer it. I think that is a slightly different situation. Of course, let's consider it to doctors, to doctors, but I think it's a very logical question, because we get these signals from hospitals. That's why I'm checking with you, and I think you're talking about your own answers...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u307	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u308	...what your information about that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u309	My information is the same as Gommers gave you this morning. If hospitals have a question about this, I think they too should turn to their intensiveists. Their intensivists are all members of the NVIC. If the president of the NVIC says it can be done, that will be the answer. I really think that politicians should not sit on that chair and should not say whether or not a ventilator is usable in a particular setting. I don't think that's our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u310	Good. You wanted to switch to block 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u311	Yeah, block two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u312	Perhaps I could mention the blocks for those who are following this debate: testing, vulnerable groups, personal protective equipment, education and refugees from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u313	And varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u314	The latter is always dangerous, varia. How long do you think you'll need to go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u315	It takes two to tango, president. So it's not gonna be me. I'm going as fast as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u316	Yeah, but what do you think you need time for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u317	Time? At your own speaking time, at net speaking time, 28 minutes, President. Then we're going to connect a target: 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u318	I see that everyone has that... Well, I see that Mr Dijkhoff indicates that it could be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u319	Well, I'm gonna try to make it 27 minutes. Mr President, come on, I am just going to give the answers to the questions as they have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u320	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u321	I believe that the questions were serious and that is why I want to be able to give a serious answer to them. We're going to significantly extend the test capacity to 17,500 tests. There are currently about 4,000 tests a day. That was the last question and I want that test policy to be extended. Last week we discussed in detail what is needed for this. I have described this in detail. I believe that what we are doing is based on what was changed here last week in the Chamber. Mr Krol's first question is: who is going to get these tests and how are we going to distribute them later? At present, care workers are being tested with complaints and, of course, patients with complaints, but beyond that, we are much more restrictive on the basis of stock estimates. You have to be able to maintain testing policies for some time. What we have done is to greatly increase the test capacity. We're at 41 labs by now. That helps. So we've actually added a lot of possibilities, testing possibilities. That means that we are now saying that you can actually organise the way of testing that we do at the hospital, so in case of complaints from all staff members in the near future, you can also organize outside the hospitals. We will therefore have to increase this as much as possible. As far as patients are concerned, this is actually about that, but we are going to work this out with a lot of military precision at the moment. That'll be done by the end of the week. This new test policy will enter into force by next week, 6 April at the latest. That gives the real answer to Mr Krol's question. Mr Jetten asks how many tests are actually enough. I'm actually pretty boundless in my will to test. You actually have two forms of testing. The first test is the molecular test: are you infected or not? The second test is the serological test: have you had it yet? So the two forms of testing are: have you had it or have you had it already? I actually want both as much as possible, but this is now possible with the capacity we have expanded and will expand over the next few weeks: 17,500, maybe even eventually increased to 29,000 if we are going to greatly increase the working days of those labs. I'm gonna try. In doing so, we think that this is the first assessment of comfort to have on the ability to do what we want, namely the whole care, all sectors, testing as we do in hospitals and also testing patients as we do in hospitals. This is now being worked out in the directive and will be completed on Monday. Suppose it's possible to go further. Then we ask RIVM of course what the next meaningful application would be. I mean, that's what we're asking the OMT. As far as serological tests are concerned, we would like an opinion from the Outbreak Management Team on Monday to link the application of these serological tests with the exit strategy, as we call it. We now have a whole package of measures that are, of course, necessary but also incredibly far-reaching. What you could do through the line of serological tests at individual level is to target or direct those measures much more precisely to those for whom that measure is still needed. If you've already had it, there's no need for home quarantine. That would be great, but before those serological tests are reliable enough to function that way, we still have a few steps to take. We are not there yet, but that opinion, also on the tests on immunity, so we want to have these serological tests next Monday, so that we can also decide on that and take the necessary steps. Mr Van der Staaij asks whether there is anything else to do in the event of a shortage of tests, for example a temperature measurement. The reaction the RIVM gives to this is that temperature measurement is actually only half reliable. Yeah, it says something about whether you have a fever or not, but it doesn't say anything about whether there is actual infection. So one could say that it actually does something more in the sphere of false security than that it actually helps to determine whether someone is infected or not. Are the tests in the Netherlands at the same level as those abroad, Mr Krol asks. The quality of the tests is certainly the same. As far as serological tests are concerned, a number of countries have already taken too eager steps and are therefore in the process of carrying out tests which are not entirely reliable. That's a risk. If you add to the immunity test the conclusion that for example you don't have to go to home quarantine and can go to work well, while that test actually gave a false-negative outcome, you're actually building in a huge risk. So we need to be sure that the serological test is reliable enough for the application you choose. That's what the Outbreak Management Team's advice is about. When can we use this on a larger scale, Mr Heerma and Mr Asscher's question is. As far as I'm concerned, it's as soon as possible. Feike Sijbesma, the special envoy in this field, is really working like the fire department to get this type of tests as quickly as possible, both along the line of purchase and along the line of production. It's necessary. The measures are now quite generic. They're quite generic and far-reaching. Precisely because you would like to see more precise measures that could possibly be linked to the immunity test, it is necessary to be able to test at the widest possible scale in the shortest possible time. Anything that helps with that, we're doing right now. Then Mr Heerma asks in which scenarios the serological tests play a role. I do not want to preach this, because I do not rule out the fact that we will still have to opt for an extension. The Prime Minister explained that yesterday. We're really gonna have to see how things are going from day to day. On 28 April, or the week before that, we will have to decide on the measures from that point on. It would be a good thing for me to ensure that serological tests can play a role in clarifying the measures, if the OMT recommendation gives rise to them, then the pressure on hospital care really has to go a lot better and you still need to extend some measures. The Outbreak Management Team will give advice to the Cabinet on the application of the serological tests next Monday. That will not be the last answer. Yesterday we indicated in the letter that the Outbreak Management Team is also working on the exit strategy over the next few weeks, as I would just mention. How could you possibly scale down measures if this is justified by their content? These serological tests will have to play an important role in all scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u322	Did you answer all questions about tests with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u323	No, I'm busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u324	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u325	If the tests could be accelerated further, Mr Van Haga asks. Yes, they can be accelerated further. That is precisely why we asked Feike Sijbesma to help us. This goes both along the line of purchasing one of those initiatives... the most reliable natural... of everything that is currently available internationally, as well as along the line of production and start-up of production in the Netherlands. Mr Segers asks how we are preparing society. He also wants to know how many serological tests are actually needed. I had the impression that he was particularly related to immunity at the level of society. That's right. That's what's being investigated. That investigation starts next week, I believe. I hope that in mid-April this will lead to a first look at how useful the research is to establish immunity at the level of society. That is something other than a serological test at the level of the individual. Immunity at the level of society is of course what you should eventually want, if you really want to get this virus under control. The assumption is that this will eventually require a vaccine. But it is good to see to what extent that immunity has now occurred. That's why the investigation will start at the beginning of next week, I think. I thought that would lead to a first outcome by mid-April. This is likely to continue to improve and broaden. I'll get back to you next week. Mr Baudet asks why a sample was only started yesterday. I heard him ask those questions this morning in the technical briefing. I really don't think that's right. For a long time, all laboratories in the Netherlands working on this type of testing have worked together in the Task Force Diagnostics. They see what the stocks are and how they can increase capacity. So the question of what is needed is asked much more often. I therefore share Mr Baudet's objective. What is needed is a huge increase in test capacity, both from the test to see if someone is infected, as well as from the test to see if someone has already had it and thus would be immune. Then, Mr. Chairman, I'm going over to the block of vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u326	No one dares ask any more questions, I see! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u327	I'm gonna make it, you know, those 28 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u328	Well, I'm keeping track.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u329	Mr Segers asks how we can ensure not only a good night care, but also a good day care, and how we use empty churches and schools and ready volunteers. In consultation with RIVM, the inspection, the VNG, Valente and COMO, and led by Mr Blokhuis, a directive has been drawn up on the reception of homeless people and homeless people. That directive states that municipalities should keep night care open and ensure an appropriate day-to-day walk-in function, where homeless people can rely on different forms of support for as long as they want. Municipalities are working to find suitable real estate for temporary use. Churches or other social initiatives can certainly play a role in this, as churches always play a very nice role in social care. The next question is also from Mr Segers. Many vulnerable people are currently in a hospital or nursing home and struggling with very existential questions, but have little access to mental care. How can we provide more room for this? Look, in the nursing homes, but also in the hospitals, mental caregivers are of course part of the team that is present. So they can also provide mental care there, regardless of one's question or one's condition. And of course everything is different at the moment, and more difficult to organize, so this access will also be more difficult to organize. But there are certainly very nice examples of ways, for example through image bells, where it does succeed. And again, where a mental caregiver is just part of the care team, that's definitely possible. And that is of course just the case in a lot of nursing homes, actually in all nursing homes. Let's be honest, on the ic, that conversation is just a little more difficult to have, if you're on the ventilator, but also in hospitals are of course mental caregivers present. And in addition, a conversation about more existential questions is fortunately not only reserved for spiritual caregivers. You can see that even in these days, caregivers are having these kinds of conversations a lot more than they have ever had, especially with COVID patients. Mr Krol asked how municipalities would ensure that they had a clear view of all the elderly in their congregation. I see a lot of very nice initiatives there, where municipalities are indeed trying very hard to keep their finger on the pulse. But not only municipalities do that; also general practitioners do that, not only for the elderly but also for other groups of vulnerable people. They're being proactively approached: are you actually okay and can I do something for you? In addition, there are, of course, many voluntary initiatives. I really feel like this is happening incredibly much. One example of what I'm worried about myself is how it's gonna be when the day's spending stops. Are you sure you're okay at home? In fact, I see everywhere that, once the daily spending has stopped, especially in the care of the elderly, contact is being made with home to see where people can be helped. Is there any form of daily spending at home? Is it perhaps necessary for the neighborhood nurse to come by more often or in another rhythm, to keep a finger on the wrist? And how's it going in relation to nursing care? Has the Netherlands considered offering pneumococcal vaccination for the elderly, as in Germany? That's what the member Van Kooten-Arissen is asking. In the Netherlands this autumn we start offering pneumococcal vaccination to the elderly. RIVM has considered the option to offer this pneumococcal vaccination early, but there is currently no scientific information showing that this vaccination is of added value in the fight against the coronavirus. In addition, at the moment there is simply not enough vaccine to vaccinate all the elderly. The infrastructure has not yet been reduced. The risk is also that older people get infected when they're in the waiting room. In short, at the moment it doesn't seem like a good idea to get to work on that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to block number four, about the personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u330	But Mr Segers had another question, and then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u331	As far as mental care is concerned, Mr Van der Staaij also asked a question to the Prime Minister, just like myself. We were going to come back to that at the moment. The Minister is right to say that there is mental care in the institutions when it comes to nursing homes. Only we get signals that the demand is much greater, and that it fails to gain access by specialists from external organizations that provide spiritual care, such as churches and the Humanist Covenant. That's where the care is. Could the Minister look at that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u332	Yeah, I guess I'll have to take a look at it. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u333	Okay, then Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u334	I hear the Minister say that RIVM did consider offering this vaccination to older people in general, and then earlier than in autumn. But the crazy thing is that the World Health Organisation, the WHO, really advises to vaccinate people against it, not so much because it helps against the virus, but because it protects more against double pneumonia that people can develop when they have a weakened immune system or when they are older. I would like to ask the Minister why the Netherlands does not follow the advice of the World Health Organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u335	We simply carry out the advice as provided by the Outbreak Management Team and as advised by RIVM. And what RIVM does is collect the international scientific basis and advise us accordingly. I have just explained that there are a number of practical problems with this pneumococcal vaccine. In addition, you just have to say: everything is being tried at the moment, because there is just no treatment at all. A real treatment against Covid doesn't exist at all. So things are being tried out at this moment, which has not always been proven to work. Sometimes assumptions are made that it might work, and then treatment is started. But, yes, whether it actually works is not known. So, yeah, I'm just following RIVM in this. I'm not going into the scientific discussion myself, if you don't mind. I'm just following RIVM in this. RIVM advises: don't. But if you appreciate that, I would like to ask the RIVM once again with emphasis what would also be the substantive basis for doing it or not. There is certainly a practical reason not to do it in the Netherlands. That's just that we don't have enough vaccine yet. And also a practical reason is that you put older people together in the waiting area. It's very doubtful if that's what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u336	I totally understand that you don't just have all these vaccinations on the shelf, because they need to be made and ordered. But in the autumn, the general 60-plus programme will be on the agenda. I also understand that it's under pressure. I am glad that the Minister will also ask why we cannot bring that up a little. But isn't it a good idea in these times of crisis to really do the weakest first? Isn't it a good idea to vaccinate some sort of staged, that you say "first of all the ancients, the people with a weakened immune system, the people with underlying health problems" and that you might be able to vaccinate the healthy 60-plussers a little later, but as soon as possible? Shouldn't it be about saving as many lives as possible and saving people a double pneumonia?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u337	I think I should just put these questions at the RIVM for a while, otherwise I'll sit in their seats. However, I would like to emphasise that there are also a number of practical problems. It is considered to be of little added value in terms of content. That's the last message I got from RIVM at this point. In addition, there are a number of practical objections that are also not easy to remove.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u338	That's what you said. But you'll return to it in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u339	Sure, next week in my weekly letter. I am getting used to the rhythm: in the weekly letter. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about personal protective equipment. We discussed this very extensively last week. Honesty requires saying: it is simply still incredibly difficult to obtain sufficient personal protective equipment. The world market at this point is really crazy. We're running down all the leads out there. There really are thousands of them. And yes, it does manage to set up that air bridge, especially with China, because that's where most of the stuff has to come from. It does manage to actually get stuff on the ground here. I also mentioned the numbers in the letter. There's been an incredibly high order of all the things that are lacking, really millions, millions. But the point is that it must be on the ground here and that it must be distributed here to all those sectors that need it. Only then can we be satisfied. And that's just tough work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u340	Have the questions on this subject been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u341	No, I was just getting started on the questions. But I thought Mr Baudet wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u342	Let me ask you about the masks that were sent back. This week it was announced that there were some 500,000 mouth caps. How many of these were first put into use?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u343	I informed you of this in detail in the letter I sent last night. That's not entirely clear. Pretty soon after those caps were on Dutch soil, it was discovered that the party, although the label was on it, did not fully meet the standards. Some of them are left at the central location. Some were already distributed, but in all probability, at least as far as we can see now, the test is on-site. One day later we got a signal from one of the hospitals, where they said: this is not quite okay. So on location it's over, but I can't say out loud that I'm quite sure that no cap has been used. I'm not entirely sure. But as far as we can see, it's settled in time. But keep me good, because it could be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u344	Thank you. One more question: where did you let me know last night? 'Cause I missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u345	In a letter of 34 sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u346	That letter is available, but then I've read about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u347	But if people can get that answer and if they can get it short, that would be nice. But you just gave it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u348	I just explained. Then, Mr President, Mrs Ouwehand's question: who does and who does not care? That is a very legitimate and very logical question, because it does not always work very well for, for example, home care or nursing care to get good things on time. This can, of course, in the long term simply endanger safety or the continuity of care. That is why we have asked the OMT to draw up a proposal for a better distribution of protective equipment between the different healthcare sectors. That directive will be published soon. This includes, among other things, a prioritisation towards the different healthcare sectors. It also deals with the question of which type of mask can be used for which treatment. If you use FFP2 masks for every type of care, which is the biggest flaw, while it could actually be a surgical mask, of which there is much more available, that is actually a bit of a shame. So there are two details: for which sectors, and for what type of care which type of mask? Together with the Minister for Medical Care and interested parties such as the National Network Acute Care, the LCH and the GGD GHOR, we come as soon as possible with a very practical hand delivery for a balanced distribution. We use every opportunity to buy protective equipment, Mr Van der Staaij asks. Yes. There is a huge need, not only in the Netherlands but all over the world. The tricky thing is that most of the stuff has to come from China. Now we also build our own production facilities. I have also worked out how we are building these own production facilities, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Wiebes's policy, also plays a very good role in this area in order to get its own production off the ground as quickly as possible in the Netherlands. But for the time being, we really need to do it with stuff that we're getting out of China in particular. That is why the air bridge has been set up. Everything has really been ordered an astronomical number, but it is important to get it on the ground here. Only then it counts, because then it really helps and you can really hand it out. It's really being worked with man and power by that nationwide purchasing consortium. What do you mean, sometimes there's a mess, was Mr Dijkhoff's question. Of course, "crap" is a very bad qualification, but not everything meets the standards. There's a lot of testing going on. When it arrives, we test ourselves in Vianen, in the rural warehouse. In addition, every hospital itself is also used to testing. So there's a lot of testing going on before it's used. We have also noticed the wrong party, to which Mr Baudet just asked, so that it did not slip through. We actually noticed pretty quickly that it wasn't okay enough. So we're trying to keep a close eye on that, as far as we can. After all, it's also other stuff and other make-up. It all looks a little different. But for safety we sometimes test double and sometimes even triple to make sure that it is good enough for the purpose for which it has to be used. That was block number four again, Chairman. Then we'll go to block number five.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u349	I certainly believe that this is being worked with man and power. On the other hand, of course, we also continue to reach distress calls. I got another one today from someone at a home care organization: "I work on a night team. Last week, my colleagues and I provided unprotected care at night to a client who has now been tested positively. I feel outlawed." What is going on here is not a problem, but it is already a problem, with too little testing on the one hand and too little protection on the other. What's the perspective for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u350	The perspective is twofold. On the one hand we do everything, but really everything to make sure that we get that stuff to the Netherlands. That's one. And we're gonna make that stuff in the Netherlands as soon as possible, because that's part of it. We just need to be able to supply our own supplies. That's one. Two is that we need to distribute the stuff better. We know that because of the distribution that is now going through the ROAZ's, it is also important to make that happen through the ROAZ's, especially home care, nursing care and sometimes the ggz do not always get their stuff in the right place or always manage to get their stuff on time. There is a considerable redistribution, including between regions, etc. But it's not always good enough for them. This means that we have asked for a directive: for what kind of care do you need what type of equipment? But also: how should the division between sectors be achieved? That's what I expect this week. That's how I'm working on an improvement in the distribution. But it's tight. I am not going to promise that it will all be resolved tomorrow, because I cannot live up to that promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u351	But in the meantime, there are problems. The Minister knows this from his own work visits. I recently read back all kinds of conversations with the Lily care group. The first thing that came back everywhere was personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u352	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u353	The question then arises: is there a sufficient view that things are going well quickly? I also heard noises that there are other houses at the redistribution which still have, but they say: we are going to protect our own stock for a while, because we may need them later. Meanwhile, cowboys come along again saying: with me you can still buy a party. That places these houses in dilemmas: how do we deal with this now? So I am left with the question of what answer we have to all these people who are so worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u354	Indeed, I sometimes hear signals that parties are still a bit on their stocks. If that is the case, then of course we are calling on parties to do so. At the same time, we also see very good examples of solidarity. This is really a phase in which we can only come to a solution if we work together. I know that in Brabant they shared very much stocks and were perfectly transparent about them. In other regions, I see this a little less. That is why we also need this directive, which will say much more directionally to ROAZ regions: so you have to divide across the sectors and this type of material you have to use for this type of care. 'Cause that's what it's all about, of course. We're just doing the maximum you could do. There is nothing else I could really think of that we could also do to promote the speed to provide for it. It's tight. There's a madness about this stuff all over the world. We really do the best we can to ensure that we get the stuff in the Netherlands and that we distribute the stuff well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u355	Finally. At the hospitals we saw that the distribution was still insufficient and that there was also a need for more management in terms of organisation. Is that also provided with the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u356	We will, of course. We will. You have the national purchasing consortium. That's the most administrative form. There are buyers of all hospitals and the suppliers together on one stock market floor to ensure that all the items that can be obtained are taken to the Netherlands. That's one. That's on the side of the buy-in. As far as the distribution is concerned, we are very responsible: this is how it has to be divided. That's how it's distributed. Each healthcare provider, for example, must be able to present his or her question directly and make it known immediately. Then there are simply distribution directives, which are tightened up. That's what I just explained. More than that? I don't know how to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u357	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u358	Then I come to block number five on the education questions. Mr Jetten asked what consultations were being held on the backwardness of pupils. Schools are, of course, doing their best to avoid as much as possible with distance learning delays. For pupils in vulnerable positions, who cannot learn well at home, a solution is already being sought as much as possible by municipalities and by schools themselves. When it comes to the safety of children, Safe Home is also involved. When it comes to lagging behind, schools are really inciting to ensure that distance learning does not lead to actual delays. At the same time, you have to be honest. When you see how long this phase of school closure takes, it is almost inevitable that delays occur. Minister Slob is working on the field to see how we can deal with it when the schools start to open again. Of course, you're hoping that's after May. That should be shown by the end of April. But it is almost inevitable: this must do something with children's learning careers, and hopefully as little as possible. What I find encouraging is the creativity with which schools are working to do it as well as possible. I can tell by my own kids. I really think it's great to see what schools are doing to ensure that education can continue as much as possible. Mr Segers asked about vulnerable children who need extra attention. On 20 March, the Minister for BVOM informed you about distance education and care for vulnerable children. Minister Slob is working with Social Affairs, the municipalities, education and childcare to organise care, education and guidance for children in vulnerable situations. We have agreed that the municipalities will take the initiative to see which children need additional measures. They work closely with schools. Also for 0- to 4 year olds, municipalities can make tailor-made arrangements. The designation to the security regions has been adapted accordingly. Solutions are therefore offered to these children in the municipalities and in schools. Work is currently under way with sectoral councils to explore how to approach this target group even more actively and how to offer even better support opportunities. Mr Slob expects to inform you more about the latest state of affairs before the weekend. I myself, in cooperation with Minister Slob and others, am working on an approach for those children who need the safety of school to be truly safe, who need that watchful eye of the teacher or the master to keep an eye on how they are doing. We'll see what we can do extra to keep those kids in view and not lose sight of them. Much is already happening in this area, but perhaps a little more is needed. I shall come back to that myself in your direction. Then the flights. I recognize the concern you have about that. Perhaps that is not even so much the concern about the numbers of people coming to the Netherlands from the United States; the flights from the United States have been mentioned as an example. But at least in explainability and in the picture it's weird that you do social distancing in the Netherlands, but it's okay if you get caught up in an airplane with a big club people coming to the Netherlands. In general, of course, the Schengen Ban already applies, so to speak. The measures applicable to all Schengen countries, of course, also apply to incoming people from the United States. I don't feel like a ban either. I think that would also be very unwise if we wanted a few Philips devices from the United States once in a while. By the way, that is not what you are advocating. You are in favour of stricter control, and I do feel for that. On exactly how we are going to do that, I would like to present a decision tomorrow to the ministerial committee on the basis of an opinion from the RIVM. I do want it to be consistent between people travelling from the United States and from other countries that are also at risk. I also want us to keep a close eye on reciprocity. There are many countries that also see the Netherlands as a risk country, so we always have to keep a close eye on reciprocity, as well as explainability in relation to other measures. That really takes another day of study to see how we can do it best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u359	That's gonna happen tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u360	Tomorrow I wish to be able to make that decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u361	So that happens at the same time as looking at the potential influx of German tourists? The Prime Minister said it's not an Easter weekend yet, but this is an acute one. Are we going to hear about this tomorrow, or is that not gonna be until Tuesday's letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u362	No, you're going to hear about that tomorrow, because I want this to be in the ministerial committee tomorrow afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u363	I understand very well that the Minister does not want to stop flights from certain countries unilaterally, but that he wants to take on this as much international as possible. I can see at the moment that there are also EU Member States asking passengers from flights from the Netherlands, Belgium and so on to go voluntarily for two weeks in their home quarantine to at least know that these people do not carry a corona. Is that one of the options on the table, to ask passengers who come to the Netherlands from New York, for at least two weeks in their home quarantine?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u364	If I said yes to that, that would be immediate news. If I said no to that, that would be immediate news. So maybe you'll be okay if I just hear your suggestion and if I tell you tomorrow. Because we really need to do this in good coordination, including internationally, also diplomatically, including with the airlines and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u365	Clear. You'll get back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u366	Yes. Then we'll go back to the block of varia. That's how fast time can go! That's the way it is. I come to Mr Klaver's pharmaceutical plant, at least not Mr Klaver's, but I have been told about a pharmaceutical plant, the Apotex plant, now called Aurobindo. We're in touch with that. I understand that the initiators would like to make a start. Their idea is that they should not only want to work as a commercial pharmaceutical company, but also build a strategic knowledge alliance with the LUMC and with the Leiden Bio Science Park. Plans are now being made which are being looked at with a positive basis. In short, there is every reason to believe that this plant is preserved for the Netherlands. What is the state of the medicine in palliative care? That's what Mrs. Ouwehand asked. In addition, we operate along two lines. There is the central direction on the corona-related drugs, also described in yesterday's letter. And there is also increased vigilance for other medicines. The CBG's and IGJ's drug deficit reporting point plays an important role in this. It also monitors the availability of corona-related medicinal products, both for inpatient pharmacy and for outpatient pharmacy. It also looks at the means of palliative care. On the basis of this information, I will, if necessary, take additional actions, either legally or otherwise. I am still considering what measures are needed for this, but we have it under attack. Mr Heerma asked if the cabinet was considering an additional legal instrument for medicine. NVZA, NVZ, NFU and wholesalers jointly monitor the availability of these medicines in hospitals and wholesalers in the central coordination structure. I have asked parties to inform me about the stocks of corona medicines in hospitals and wholesalers. They will do so in the near future. On the basis of this information, we will carry out additional actions, whether legal or otherwise, if necessary. So I leave that possibility open, but here too: we do what works. About the Drug Deficit Reporting Point is written in the letter. This is one of many areas in which we have just gone into centralization. That list is long by now. (NL) Mr President, the issue of medicines, as a sub-block within the varia block. How does the registration of the dead as a result of corona go and is it true that there is underreporting? That is what Mr Wilders and Mrs Marijnissen asked. This was also explained in the hearing this morning. We know there's been underreporting. The people who haven't been tested but who do die are actually dead before you know if they've actually had corona or not. They are not initially registered as coronadode. But in the end these deaths do appear in the statistics of "over-death mortality." Forgive the word; I did not come up with it myself, but that is what statisticians call it. What is a normal mortality rate on an average day in April, given demographic trends? That's how you should see it. And to what extent does this year's mortality differ from that in other years? This is how excess mortality is calculated. That is an internationally comparable measure. Van Dissel also stressed this morning that all the comparisons that you are now reading in the newspaper are simply not possible. The figures on excess mortality can always be measured in a reliable way after some time. All countries also register a bit in a different way. It also has a lot to do with the treatment situation in certain countries. In short, the current international mortality rates are simply not yet sufficiently harsh to be able to compare properly. So it is true: in the Netherlands there is underreporting. But at some point it will come to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u367	Yeah, that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u368	I think, Mr. Chairman... yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u369	No, that can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u370	Did I get my 28-minute target? Now I want to know!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u371	I hear you have two minutes left. No. Mr Heerma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u372	I believe that questions have been asked about a vaccine and the CEPI initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u373	Would you mind if I returned to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u374	Well, actually, I don't. In the letter it says that the cabinet is okay with considering joining.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u375	Yeah, I know the question. The answer to that question is: we have 10 million available for vaccine development. That seems sufficient at the moment. We are indeed considering putting that money away through this European initiative. But we'll see what's the most effective way to get rid of the money. If it is most effective through this European cooperation, we will do so. And if it's any other way more effective, we're gonna do that. International cooperation is simply necessary here. Which research group does what? So I think it will be the most logical thing to choose for international cooperation. So we will put the money away anyway, in the best possible way to get that vaccine as soon as possible. Because we want to participate fully in that development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u376	I understand this, but can the Minister explain in more detail in next week's letter what the trade-offs are?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u377	Yes. To be honest, I hope that at that time I have already taken the first steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u378	Last question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u379	I asked about something we heard at the hearing this morning. From Brabant we have learned that people can gain traumatic experiences on the ic's and that it is very important to guide those people. I've asked if that's gonna be okay. The answer to that was yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u380	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u381	However, we must bear in mind that this guidance is needed for a longer period of time. I do not expect the cabinet to say exactly how it is going to do this, but I would like to make a commitment that we are going to take good care of these people who are now doing that difficult work for us for as long as that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u382	Absolutely. In all institutions, support teams of psychologists and sometimes mental caregivers etc. are used to get through this traumatic time. This will continue for as long as possible: as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u383	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u384	That's it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u385	Thank you so much. I'll take a look at the MPs. I actually want to make the proposal to keep the second deadline. There are likely to be motions filed. That's what the minister and the prime minister can look into at dinner break. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds. I would like to ask those Members who do not participate in the debate, but who, of course, support the spokesmen, perhaps to dine now so that the Members' Restaurant will not be too full. Then we can split it up a little bit. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u386	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the detailed answer. It gives me a lot of confidence in the approach: always switch when it is necessary and not too bad to get back on things when there is moving insight. I hope it is not necessary to scale up much further on the ic, but I have heard the Minister very well that once the 2,400 comes into sight, the effort is to do more, and also that after that we will look carefully at what else is needed. I just want to say one more thing about testing. I myself have the fervent desire to test who has had it. Many people who have felt fluous in the last month will be curious if they have got away in a good way and have already had it. I also see a lot of messages every day from companies saying they can do it. But we really shouldn't do it until it's reliable. It's very annoying not to know if you've had it, but it's even worse if you get a false positive or false negative test. Then you might think you're immune because you've had it while you're running into it and running into a punch. As much as we all want this, I think we should be careful about this. We should not rush into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u387	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 2,400 spots on the ic's, probably 3,000 later, code black can come up. It's dramatic: people who are healthy and can be helped can't get a place. In order to work out the scenario of the 3,000, I have signed a motion which Mr Asscher will shortly submit with conviction. It is good that the Minister has promised to send the scenarios that will take place and the criteria that will be used to the Chamber by Wednesday at the latest. Now I have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Germany has an excess capacity of ic-spots;]] [[invites the Minister of VWS to take the lead and initiative to get as many ice beds as possible for Dutch corona patients in Germany in contact with his German counterpart,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop the admission of passenger aircraft from risk areas such as New York with immediate effect, unless it concerns only Dutch repatriants, who are to be placed in home quarantine upon return,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-201]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-202]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u389	And finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a ban on meeting in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government not to make an exception for religious meetings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-203]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u390	Finally, once again to everyone who works in healthcare and all Dutch people at home: a lot of strength and hang in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u391	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u392	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the answer in the first term. If you read last night's letter and see today's debate, you will see that a great deal has happened in a week's time, both in terms of ic capacity and in terms of testing and protective equipment. A lot is going to happen again in the next week. That gives me a lot of confidence in the approach. Thank you also for responding to the concerns about the influx of tourists from Germany and not screening people who fly here from New York. I understand we're going to hear more about that tomorrow as a result of the MCCb. I am very curious to see what decisions will be taken there. Also thank you for the commitment to return to participating in international vaccine programmes in the letter. The same applies to the exit strategy and the roles that serological tests can play in it. We'll wait for next week's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u393	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u394	Mr. Chairman. Just now the message came in that KLM is going to say goodbye to staff with a temporary contract. I'm telling the Prime Minister, that can't be true, can it? A year ago, we invested EUR 740 million in the State participation Air France-KLM and the entire polder is asking companies that receive aid not to put people out on the street now. I would like to ask the Cabinet to enter into discussions with KLM, especially since Minister Hoekstra said last week: "Businesses that abuse these arrangements get the government after them." Can the Cabinet inform the Chamber about this before the weekend? Mr. Chairman. This crisis has already shown that Dutch people want to work together. They clearly inspired the Chamber. The beacons are being moved. It was heartwarming today that Mr Wilders advocated more international solidarity and it was encouraging that the Prime Minister advocated European cooperation, a corona fund and a substantial contribution from the Netherlands to that corona fund, a clear step towards making a solidarityary contribution to European solutions, even as the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the detailed answer and once again support the course it is taking to save as many lives as possible, to increase the number of ic-beds, to increase testing capacity and to prepare the black scenario well in order to eventually achieve fewer sick and fewer deaths in the Netherlands. 'Cause that's our assignment. If we are willing to work together on the solutions, then we can fulfill them, only then. Once again, I wish the Cabinet much strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u395	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u396	Mr President, thank you. I have two points for the second term. The first is that we have been talking for a very long time about ic capacity and how we can expand it. I'm very concerned about that. The Minister has indicated a number of times that he will continue to develop this with the medical specialists. I would really like to urge the nurses to be involved too, because the work they have to do there is really crucial. I think they should have a role in the preparation to answer the question of whether we can expand. I would like a commitment from the Minister on that later. The second point I wanted to make is about KLM, as was Mr Jetten. During this debate, the message came in that KLM will not permanently renew the contracts. As far as I'm concerned, this is really unacceptable. This is a large company that many Dutch people are proud of. It's a company that was chosen as an icon by this cabinet and said we're never gonna let it fall down. This big company makes millions of dollars and converts billions. This large company, which receives hundreds of millions of government support, would not now extend the temporary contracts of so many people. I don't think this is possible. I want the Prime Minister to make it clear in his second term that this is not accepted by the government, because it makes this arrangement available to KLM and other companies. We will not accept this as a shareholder either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u397	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to endorse the comments made by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten on KLM. We fear that not only KLM's flex workers are screwed. Yesterday, of course, we also heard the news that 75,000 to 100,000 people with a flex contract have already applied for WW. So so many thousands of people are already being dismissed, while all kinds of schemes are being rigged. We can't accept that. Somewhat along the lines of that, I also have a motion for a resolution. It is about the behaviour of large companies around the dividend payment. I'll read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment calls on companies to apply for the new reduction of working time only if it is really necessary and to reconsider the payment of dividends;]] [[noting that only turnover losses will be checked afterwards;]] [[considers that the waiver of dividend payments should also be a condition for claiming this scheme, as it should be avoided that tax money from the emergency package will eventually go to shareholders;]] [[calls on the Government to check ex post whether companies using the new reduction of working time have paid dividends and/or bonuses and to recover the financial support from the companies that have done so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u399	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u400	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas 2400 ic-beds will be available next weekend, but possibly more ic-beds will be needed;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a scenario setting out the possibilities for further scaling up, e.g. up to 3,000 ic-beds, identifying the bottlenecks (in particular with regard to the use of care staff) and how they can be resolved;]] [[calls on the government, as an important part of such a scenario, to include Dutch patients in intensive care in neighbouring countries and to share this scenario with the Chamber within a week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many people are concerned about the capacity of care after the corona crisis due to delay of regular care;]] [[Considering that the current crisis puts caregivers under great psychological pressure and that the pressure will continue after the corona crisis by delaying regular care;]] [[Considering that care workers now need support, such as the use of a buddy system and the need to use aftercare;]] [[Calls on the Government to send to the Chamber an overview of the deployment of capacity for regular care, the preparation for catching up on delayed care and the communication to patients here;]] [[calls on the government to also focus on support for care workers and to indicate how the post-care provision for care workers will be designed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-205]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u401	Then I wish everyone who is faced with this terrible crisis a great deal of strength and join me in the questions about KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u402	Thank you. Then Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u403	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for the answers on ic-capacity, testing and protection. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his clear words on European solidarity. I wish him wisdom and, above all, good talks in Europe. I would specifically like to thank him for a very specific commitment that the temporary emergency measure bridged employment retention also applies to civil society organisations and voluntary organisations with paid forces. So thank you for that. I still have two very specific questions that have remained. The first one is about mental care. The Health Minister said he'd come back to that. I don't know if he'll come back to that now or in the letter. It's very specific about access to mental care for people who really want it. There's a lot of demand for that. There's not enough offer. So I'd like to encourage you to find the conversation with the profession, with the representatives of churches, other philosophical organizations and humanist organizations. So an encouragement on that point. I wonder when and how he'll get back to that. The second point concerns the care of homeless people and homeless people. I really see a difference between one municipality and another. This also applies to the extent to which they use volunteers, for example. So, as far as I'm concerned, an encouragement to the VNG to learn from the best municipalities that have the best care for this vulnerable group in order. I wish everyone the Cabinet and beyond, much more special, the people in care wisdom and strength in this difficult time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u404	Thank you, Mr Segers. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u405	Thank you, Mr President. I was already done writing the motions when the news came about KLM. But it is clear that a moral appeal to all parties to behave responsibly in this crisis does not naturally lead to good results. In that light, I have a motion. I also signed one of Mrs Marijnissen's. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that banks charge high penalty rates up to 13% when people turn red, while they themselves can borrow at extremely low interest rates;]] [[whereas in the financial crisis banks were saved with public money and therefore it is only reasonable to ask banks to repay the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to encourage banks to drastically reduce these interest rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u406	Mr. Chairman. Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in our neighbouring countries professions are listed as animal carers and veterinarians;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the necessary care for animals can be continued;]] [[calls on the Government to include veterinarians, animal carers and animal ambulance personnel on the list of crucial professions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Wilders, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-208]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u407	Finally, I would like to thank the cabinet for the answers. Anyone who tries to save what is to be saved with his legs in the mud, thank you very much, very much strength! Hang on, everybody!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u408	Thank you. Mr Krol has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u409	Madam President, my thanks also to the rulers. I was mainly talking about the unrest that had arisen in my constituency about the letters and phone calls to random elderly people, who were not yet on their way to the ic. They were told at the time that they had to be very careful. Everyone has to, but not like this. The Minister said it very clearly. I am pleased with those clear words. Politics isn't supposed to sit on the doctor's chair. Of course, doctors should talk to people about the expected results, but I understand that the Minister also thinks that this should not be done by age and not by random elderly people, and certainly not by telephone and by letter. And wasn't the assignment given by the Ministry or one of the departments under the Ministry? I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many former nurses and other care workers are returning to care;]] [[Whereas, in the long term, many planned care and treatments not related to the corona crisis should be planned;]] [[Whereas additional staff are also urgently needed at that stage;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether this group of staff can be maintained for a longer period of time for care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Baudet and Mr Asscher.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-209]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u410	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u411	Mr President, thank you to the rulers for their reply and also for the comprehensive letter last night. I don't have any motions. A few brief points. When it comes to additional measures, the churches have been in the picture. My view is that here too there is a real degree of compliance with the directive. This is very well respected and services are very well scaled. I believe that we should always look at all further and new measures to see whether they are being seriously analysed or whether they are going to help to reduce contamination. We used to have a list of possible follow-up measures in the OMT's letter. Maybe it would be good to get that back in the picture. Mr. Chairman. A second point. As far as the role of patient organisations is concerned, the Minister responded positively to my suggestion. He mentioned the NPCF and the Federation chronically ill. It is perhaps good to include other patient organisations, such as the Dutch Patients' Association, which I know is also involved in this. As far as mental care providers are concerned, I agree with Mr Segers' question. Finally, on the KLM. Of course, there are more questions. Now it's also about being fired in a crisis. Maybe that could get in the picture sooner. Would it not also be an opportunity to re-enact the Emergency Employment Act of 1971 for crisis conditions, with additional safeguards against redundancies? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u412	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. It will be exciting to organise the ic capacity in the coming weeks. I think that's one of the conclusions of this afternoon. I wish everyone the courage to continue with the approach and continue to fight, even though it is sometimes very complicated and difficult. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that taxi drivers and traders in the market in food, fruit and vegetables are currently not entitled to the compensation damage COVID-19;]] [[noting that this group of entrepreneurs has been hit hard by the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to open up the compensation damage COVID-19 as soon as possible to taxi drivers and traders in the market trade in food, fruit and vegetables affected by the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u414	And then, as I announced, the motion I modified slightly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the travel and transport restrictions resulting from the corona crisis have led, among other things, to the fact that people may not be buried in another country;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control,]] [[noting that the state has tens of thousands of hectares of land;]] [[calls on the Government to provide appropriate support to meet this need where local authority is not sufficiently capable of realising a need for graveyards with eternal burial rest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u415	One question, short and powerful. We just had an interrupting debate on exactly the same point. My question was, is it happening somewhere now? Is something wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u416	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u417	Maybe that'll help with the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u418	I have been in contact with a number of parties between the interruption we had and this moment. One of those parties is Almere. There the requested capacity is fifteen to twenty per day, while they can handle five. I also had a gentleman on the phone who said that the number of people who want to be buried here is now so large that it costs a lot of money. If it can be provided in another way, we can give the money to the poor that we normally donate it for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u419	Thank you. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u420	Mr. Chairman. As a result of this debate so far, I have three motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch economy is seriously affected by the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas it is already necessary to examine how to get the economy back on track as soon as possible, once the corona virus is under control;]] [[calls on the government to develop various scenarios to kick-start our economy after the corona crisis, at least to examine the impact of:]] [[to pay back corporate tax for 2019 and to pay it back in the coming years, when the economy recovers;]] [[forcing banks to put an end to usury interest rates from 8% to 12% on loans for SMEs andzzp'ers;]] [[abolish the closing commission of 3,9%;]] [[stimulate expenditure by reducing VAT rates;]] [[and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-212]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u421	Two more, and it's going very fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has announced that much more testing on corona will be carried out in the short term;]] [[Whereas information on the total number of people infected with or already infected with the coronavirus in the Netherlands is not yet available;]] [[Whereas such information may be of great added value in order to be able to conduct policies as effectively as possible;]] [[Whereas such information can be obtained by organising a sample test among a representative proportion of the population;]] [[calls on the Government to organise, at the shortest possible time, a sample testing whether it has been infected or infected with the corona virus from a representative part of the population,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-213]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u422	Can I have a quick word?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u423	I don't know how short it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u424	Four rules. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that significant measures are in force in the Netherlands aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas the virus is not well controlled as long as infected persons from abroad can enter our country undisturbed;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce short-term border controls in order to control the corona virus as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-214]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. It is good that the Minister at RIVM is going to ask more questions for older people, at-risk groups, people with reduced immune system functioning about the possibility of saving them a life-threatening pneumonia through pneumococcal vaccination, which is still a difficult word, President-in-Office, following the WHO opinion. It is also good that the Minister will discuss with RIVM a possible phased vaccination for these risk groups. I'll wait for the results. Mr. Chairman. I do not have the answer to my question. What can people in the house do to minimise the risk of infection for themselves, but also for their roommates? I would like another response from the directors in the next term. I don't have any motions, but I have co-signed motions. I would also like to wish all people in the Netherlands a lot of strength, a lot of strength and persevere. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u426	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u427	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of companies with certain SBI codes cannot benefit from the TOGS scheme;]] [[whereas in practice there are companies which do fulfil the conditions of the scheme but do not comply with the SBI code due to a wrong SBI code;]] [[calls on the Government to be generous in defining the SBI codes that will eventually be covered by the TOGS scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[not having been subjected to intensive testing for the coronavirus in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas intensive testing provides an enormous amount of additional information;]] [[Whereas this information can help speed up the start of the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether intensive testing can play a role in the scenarios for restarting the Dutch economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-215]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-216]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u428	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I hear the Prime Minister wants a ten-minute suspension. I was just suggesting we take a half-hour break. I understand the health minister has to leave. I would like to make an exception once and do the votes without the mp in box K, by way of exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u429	Then the box is empty. I'll sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u430	Well, the Prime Minister would like to stay. But for how long now? It is very bad of me to question this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u431	Mr President, I think that all the parties would like to suspend for ten minutes and then we can use the longer suspension to prepare the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u432	Well, never discuss a break. Thank you. Then I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u433	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u434	Mr. Chairman. I've got a few answers first, and then I'll go into the motions we've divided. They asked: how are the social influencers selected? Based on their enthusiasm and affinity with the subject, the range they can achieve in the target group of 14-19 year olds and a good distribution across various sub-target groups. They shall receive a fee. It's a lot lower than usual before. The influencers have applied a lower rate because of the corona crisis. By the way, you can see that significant groups of young people are also working on #alone online. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked: what else can you do in the house? I really think my advice should be: follow the advice of the RIVM, so sneeze in the elbow, use paper handkerchiefs, don't shake hands, if you have a cold, you stay at home, and if you get any anxiety or fever, the whole family stays at home. I do not think there is any point in adding things to that, because that does not make the message clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u435	Mr Baudet, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u436	I can imagine that you cannot all mention amounts here in the Chamber now, but can you write...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u437	I have no idea, guys. No, we're not gonna do that. We're not gonna send a letter about that, really. Here's the answer. Come on! We're in the middle of a crisis, guys. You're lucky those people are doing it. That's nice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u438	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u439	There. Then Mr Jetten asked about the cultural sector. I understand, of course, the background to that question. I also understand the background to his concern. The decision until 1 June concerns events subject to authorisation and reporting. Cultural activities such as performances, exhibitions and concerts that are not subject to authorisation or reporting are covered by the package of measures that will apply until 28 April and that we will review the week before that. I also said yesterday that we are probably not going back to normal after 28 April, but that of course depends on the advice we receive. I understand that this raises questions for the different sectors. The measures currently in force until 28 April can be applied to activities which have a long preparation period, as is often the case in the cultural sector, for example, to orchestras which cannot rehearse than to the end of the season. I understand that this has been done for and by the cultural sector and that activities have been cancelled for a longer period. In the first instance, this will soon be until 1 June. This is also a logical decision from the point of view of the sector. The start-up of economic activity will require more time for one sector, which we can see here for the cultural sector than for the other sector. The economic package includes schemes providing for compensation for staff costs and for self-employed persons for loss of income. These are the temporary emergency measures to bridge job retention and the temporary bridging scheme for self-employed entrepreneurs. These arrangements also apply to the cultural sector. In any case, both schemes will continue until the end of May. We are keeping a close eye on the need for renewal. A claim to the temporary emergency measure for the maintenance of employment is, as is well known, possible in the event of a loss of turnover of 20% or more. Attribution to the Temporary bridging scheme independent entrepreneurs is possible in the event of a loss of income to below the social minimum. Of course, the question now is whether cultural activities can continue between 28 April and 1 June. That is why the claim is relevant. So they can make use of it. In addition, there is, of course, intensive consultation with the sector. Then there was a question about spiritual caregivers. For nursing homes and small-scale forms of housing, we have taken the measure as a cabinet that they are no longer allowed to receive visitors. This is to protect vulnerable people. In doing so, we have made an exception for people who are in the final stages of life and are dying. The health care institution is called upon to decide on this. There are also nursing homes that sometimes allow structural volunteers to participate in the process at such a stage, provided that they have no complaints and do not belong to the target group, and of course in the context of the last phase of life. We see that many hospitals also offer room for a limited number of relatives or relatives if patients are in the final stages of life and are dying. That's the hospital's policy. So that can also vary from hospital to hospital. I think it's up to the patient and the neighbors to see who can be there, especially if there's room for a limited number of people. Of course, that's not up to us. People who find comfort in a clergyman can, of course, choose to do so. Eventually it is customization, also from the institutions. Then KLM. Because of the debate, I have not had a chance to go into this further than the media reports. In general, I can say that the government has made a moral appeal to all companies to keep employees on temporary contracts in service, because those people on temporary contracts are also covered by the NOW scheme. Furthermore, I don't know exactly what's going on at KLM. That is why I say to you that one of the ministers concerned will not be able to see who that will be, Wouter Koolmees, Wopke Hoekstra or perhaps Cora van Nieuwenhuizen tomorrow will be in contact with the KLM and the Chamber will then report further on this matter. Furthermore, I have no answer, because I do not know more than you know, and that is what we have seen on websites. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about the activation of the Emergency Employment Act. As is well known, of course, a very comprehensive package of economic measures has been put together. At the moment, there is no reason to activate the emergency law, but of course that is a possibility that we are not excluding at the moment. I'll do the motions that lie on my piece. After that, Mr De Jonge will deal with the motions that are on his way. The motion in part No. 203, I advise. A ban on religious meetings other than in public space is contrary to Article 6 (1) of the Constitution. But what is more important is that the discussions on this matter are ongoing and that many of these meetings do not go on. The online service is actually already the norm in practice. And again, I say that Grapperhaus is in close contact with all religious organisations to see if additional measures are needed. At the moment, that is not foreseen. The motion in part No. 204, I advise. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, it is not enforceable. The Nijboer motion has been tabled before and, I understand, it has now been adopted. I have already promised that we will come back to that. Of course, I'll share the underlying apple. That is what I said in the debate in the Chamber. The motion in part No. 207, by Mrs Ouwehand, I shall, as far as I am concerned, leave it to the House to decide. There's a moral apple in here. There are constant conversations with the banks. Anyway, I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 208 by Mrs Ouwehand, I advise. The list includes professional groups who, in the light of this crisis, demand continuous occupation. That doesn't mean anything about the importance of other professions. It is asked to find a solution for the work to proceed. That makes the motion in part No. 208. The motion in part No. 210 from DENK, I'm not sure. I have also indicated in the debate that we are constantly looking at changing circumstances which require adjustments to the scheme. We're following developments. Nevertheless, these sectors can also benefit from other schemes. However, I would like to refer briefly to what I said earlier in the first period of the debate. DENK's motion in part No. 211, I'd also like to dissuade you. We have said that this is really a matter for the congregations and the communities of faith. That's how it's arranged in the Coroner's Office Act. I see no reason to change that division of responsibility between the Empire and the municipalities. The motion in part No. 212 is about the scenarios. I don't recommend that motion. I don't want to anticipate that right now. Of course, in the spirit of this motion, we will discuss this later. But this motion is too compelling at the moment. The motion in part No. 214 is about the short-term introduction of border controls. I'd really like to discourage that motion. I have already said that tomorrow we will see how, without closing the borders, we can work to prevent as much as possible that people from Belgium or Germany come here on holiday. But we also have an interest in open borders. We have an interest in this because of the flow of goods, but also because of frontier workers. We really need to be careful that, with all the anomaly we have, we also try to maintain some normality. But again, we are really trying to limit that holiday traffic as much as possible. We will come back to that tomorrow after the ministerial committee meeting. The motion in part No. 215 gets judgment, Room. I consider this motion to support policy. If entrepreneurs do not have a corresponding SBI code, but do work in the sector covered by the scheme, they can report it via the form on the website of the RVO. So in that sense, the motion gets judgment Chamber, Chairman. I therefore believe that the questions that were still open and the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u440	Yes, but if a motion supports policy, then the motion is dissuaded. That's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u441	No, I think that's silly. Then I say: the motion is almost what we want, and that is why it gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u442	Oh. Thank you. Please wait a moment with the shift of the guard because of cleaning the speaker chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u443	Mr. Chairman. I'll handle the motions in order of entry. The motion in part No. 201 asks the Minister of VWS to take the lead and take the initiative in order to achieve as many ic-beds as possible for Dutch corona patients in Germany in his contact with his German counterpart. We already do. So this motion is really superfluous. So I'm gonna dissuade him. The motion in part No. 202 calls on the Government to stop allowing passenger aircraft with immediate effect. I have just responded to that with what we are going to do. That's not this. What we are going to do is take a decision on this tomorrow. That's why I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 205 listens closely, because motions are also a signal in the direction of the sector. The signal towards society must be: yes, of course we are going to do everything in our power to extend phase 2, in which we are now, as far as possible. Those 2,400 from next Sunday, maybe there should be more. So that's what we're working on. Van Rijn works on that every day. This motion actually calls for this type of scenario to be further developed. I understand, because that's what we're attached to. Only a number is mentioned. I find that number really complicated. So I'm going to say clearly that I'm just going to put that number between hooks, because I don't want the sector out of such a motion to understand that there is a kind of order now, a kind of order to work to 3,000 now. You don't mean it that way, because it says "for example," but they really shouldn't understand it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u444	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u445	We too, of course, see the forecasts. So we have to prepare for what may come, but I'm going to put the number between hooks. That is not the job or the question to the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u446	I am, in fact, particularly moving forward to confirm that the Minister must explain it in this way. That's why it says "for example." I think we have had a good exchange of this in the debate. It's not about asking the care of the impossible. That's where great things are being done. It's all about thinking about things we don't want, but they might be necessary. I therefore support this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u447	Thank you, because that's how the sector will read it. There is also a relationship with the quality. Thank you. Then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the Asscher/Klaver motion in part No. 206 there are two requests. The second request calls on the government to focus on supporting care workers in the post-care sector. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber on that. That is what I very much share. Sending that overview sounds like something very bureaucratic, of which I do not necessarily see what the added value is. So at the first operative part, I don't feel very at home. On the second operative part, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber, but it should not be an overview of the total capacity. What you do have to do is get yourself ready to start anything that can't continue to care as soon as possible; of course that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u448	What if you read the first operative part as "to inform the Chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u449	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u450	I do not need a bureaucratic overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u451	Very good. Then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. That was the motion in part No. 206. There was another question from Klaver to involve the nurses in scenario 3, at stage 3, in their elaboration. I'd be happy to admit that I'm handing it over to the Inspector General. I have looked closely at the signature of the motion on item No. 209. That is why this motion receives the judgment of the Chamber. Of course, we are going to try to hold on to employees who are now tempted to work in care again for as long as possible. So that's a really good idea. So the verdict is up to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 213 on the representative sample. That's just what we do. So this motion really doesn't add anything. I would therefore like to call this motion superfluous. We're doing the sample right. With that, I advise against this motion. That's the motion in part No. 213.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u452	Before you continue, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u453	It could be an extra signal. It stresses that it must be done as quickly as possible. I think the Chamber can make a ruling on that, don't you? That doesn't have to be discouraged, does it? If what you are doing is indeed a stronger signal: we are indeed going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u454	But the Chamber must also be a bit sparing on its own instruments. If a motion describes about seamlessly what we are doing anyway, which I have already promised three or four times, it does not seem to me that that has any added value. I would therefore like to declare this motion to be superfluous. For the motion by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion The request is to investigate whether intensive testing can play a role in reboot scenarios. Yeah, that's exactly what we're doing. That was Heerma's question, too. It was also last week's motion and also the content of the letter you received yesterday. So I thought we'd already agreed on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u455	What plays a role here, of course, is a shriller restart. So the focus is not on a restart. I'm sure you're working hard on that. But it's about the extra information you get from the tests. I'm very happy with 30,000 tests a day we're going to do. Can we work out scenarios for a faster reboot? That's a little different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u456	Well, that's kind of the same thing. That is exactly what I said last week, including in your direction. I have also confirmed this today in the direction of Mr Heerma. It's also in my letter from last night. We will have to ensure that we declare these radical measures in force as short as possible. The serological tests are about getting out of there as quickly as possible, so that you can apply the measures more precisely to those who are not yet immune; you could say that. We have the whole immunity test as a reason of being, so that we can start again as soon as possible in a normal way, as soon as that is justified. These serological tests are about the need for them. Next Monday, there will be an OMT advice on how to deal with this. Next Tuesday, MCCb will decide. And then we're gonna get to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u457	Mr. Van Haga, then you are free to put the motion to the vote or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u458	Well, chairman, I got so much unsolicited advice...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u459	I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u460	I think that's fine. If it is true that this is being done exactly the way it is being done, I shall now withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u461	Since the Van Haga/Baudet motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u462	Mr President, in the light of the opinion of the cabinet, I am holding my motion on item No. 208 on. I hope the situation changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u463	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (25295, No. 208). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u464	There.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u465	You look very proud to be inside...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u466	Well, we're going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u467	Yes, thank you. Thank you for the answers. This is also what brought us to the end of this debate. I thank the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. I wish him every success and strength at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-01-tweedekamer-2.u468	I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour. Then we'll vote. If it's okay, we have a long voting list.
