ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	The debate is now on the budget for external trade and development cooperation, 35570-XVII, adoption of the budget statement for external trade and development cooperation for the year 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We do not often see this minister in this Chamber, because traditionally the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, does not produce many laws. Of the very limited number of legislative pathways of this minister during this government period, one has not yet reached the First Chamber, namely the bill on Invest International. A second bill, that on CETA, will not be put to the vote and will not be put to the vote in this Chamber. In principle, I cannot charge this minister with the latter. A majority in this Chamber is opposed to the treatment. Still, it's a weak result. The dramatic change in the situation in the world by COVID-19 gives us reason to consider this year's policy and choice with the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The COVID-19 virus does not discriminate and affects all mankind. Still, some people get hit a lot harder. Especially in developing countries and poor populations, hunger is more deadly than the disease itself as a result of measures against COOVID-19. Corona measures are also being abused by governments to attract more power. In countries where health care was not well organised before the pandemic, but where there is a high level of poverty and large groups of people just above water by working in the informal sectors, the effects of the pandemic and the global economic recession are particularly disruptive. This government has so far used its deep pockets for support measures in the Netherlands, helping many people at this difficult time. But when it comes to aid to developing countries, the government has indeed disappointed us. After political tensions within the coalition, an agreement had finally been reached in the summer. By bringing forward future expenditure on development cooperation and by an additional injection of 350 million, the budget remains virtually the same this year and next year. Of the 1 billion recommended by the International Affairs Advisory Council for the global fight against corona effects, 150 million is actually left. This difficult compromise ensures that this and next year the already committed funds for development programmes are largely maintained, and that is all. Mr. Chairman. We cannot understand that this minister has not succeeded in getting more money from the Minister of Finance in this global crisis. It's not even close to the extra billion recommended. The German Government is showing us with its additional EUR 3 billion that it can do otherwise. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. This economy is shortsighted. Sooner or later we in the Netherlands will be faced with the consequences of increased poverty and inequality in the rest of the world. At the presentation of the AIV opinion on 11 May, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, the chairman of the AIV, said that preventing a collapse in Africa is of great self-interest to the Netherlands and Europe. It is expected that more poverty and inequality will increase instability and conflict, resulting in migratory flows. Climate change and the consequences of doing too little will only increase this. Can the Minister comment on the possible consequences for Europe of a collapsed neighbourhood continent due to hunger, conflict and climate change? Mr. Chairman. Already at the beginning of the pandemic, the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, called for a global ceasefire. Unfortunately, not many conflict parties have responded to his request. Several think tanks and international organisations warn against increased violence. A paper from the European Union Institute for Security Studies on the impact of COVID-19 on conflict dynamics shows with case studies in Yemen, Libya, Ukraine, Sudan and Colombia that violence in these conflict areas increased everywhere in the months following the outbreak of the virus. According to several studies, this pandemic affects the course of violent conflicts and leads to more death and destruction. Conflict-stricken groups are particularly vulnerable to the virus due to limited support and are often difficult to reach due to the threat of violence or displacement. A poignant example of this is the recent escalated conflict in Ethiopia, where nearly 1 million citizens have had to leave their homes and live in tens of thousands of temporary camps in Sudan. The anti-covid measures limiting travel opportunities also have an impact on the work and operations of humanitarian and relief organisations, making it difficult to reach affected people in conflict zones and refugees. Also where there has been peace or truce, as in Ukraine, they are hampered by restrictions and by shifting government priorities. So-called frozen conflicts, as in Nagorno-Karabakh, turned into violent, bloody wars. After all, government, media and public have a different priority. Also, the focus on fighting the virus makes governments vulnerable to attacks by armed groups who eagerly use it. Between March and April of this year, the number of violent attacks in the Sub-Sahara, for example, increased by 37%. Authorization regimes use the measures to suppress political opponents and critical sounds and to draw power towards them. Military forces are deployed in different countries against the population under the guise of maintaining corona measures. According to the World Bank, the economic crisis caused by the measures taken to control the virus could lead to an additional 150 million people living in extreme poverty by 2021. In addition, the pandemic creates an even greater inequality, both within and between countries. This can lead to strong social unrest, distrust of authorities, the growth of extremist groups, outbreaks of violence and large refugee movements. In short, Mr President, there is every reason to strengthen development cooperation policy very strongly in this increasingly unsafe world. How does the Minister see developments around violent conflicts worldwide in the light of COOVID-19? Does the Minister agree with the need for extra attention in the field of conflict analysis, prevention and conflict mediation in order not to escalate the instability caused by COVID-19? In what way is this dealt with in the current policy of this Minister? Is the Minister prepared to send the Chamber a policy note analysing this issue and providing policy measures? Mr. Chairman. This Minister is also responsible for foreign trade. If one thing has immediately become clear as a result of this pandemic, then it is the perverse effect of losing free trade and one-sided development models, which are mainly based on world market orientation. GroenLinks has been striving for a different trading system for years. A system of fair trade rather than unbridled free trade. A system with binding laws and rules for corporate social responsibility across production chains, rather than voluntary and non-binding agreements with the market sectors. A system in which the protection of people and the environment is paramount, rather than foreign investment which is too much at the expense of people and the environment. The fact that the European Commission has started a strategic review of trade policy is truly commendable, but the letter we received from the government about its commitment to this discussion is downright moderate and disappointing. It is a long way from discussing the limits of world trade and the undesirableness of long production chains with enormous dependencies that affect millions of people in external shocks. Think of the textile workers, especially women, in Bangladesh, Vietnam and Cambodia, who were massively thrown out at the start of this pandemic. Mr. Chairman. We would very much like to have this fundamental debate with the Minister. The treatment of CETA should give us that possibility, if it is not for a majority in this Chamber to block it. For some groups, the lack of access for civil society organisations, journalists and trade unions to the ICS dispute resolution mechanism was one of the main reasons for being against the CETA Convention. CETA itself is no longer the subject of negotiations. In fact, the commercial part of it has already entered into force. This can therefore no longer be repaired in the framework of CETA. The European Commission is now working on an alternative route. Commissioner Dombrovskis for Trade is working on a complaint mechanism for all trade agreements. The Minister informed this Chamber of this in her letter of 16 November. Whether or not this initiative can remove the objections to ICS under CETA is not the subject of my speech today. We do want to be clear about where we stand with this initiative. A number of political groups in this Chamber have made the treatment of CETA dependent on this mechanism. In my opinion, the Minister's letter gives detailed information on how the mechanism should work and what the legal basis is for it. The Minister also discussed this initiative at the Budgetary Session in the House of Representatives. She argued the following. I quote from the Acts: 'If you are talking about access to the new complaints mechanism that has just been launched, it is indeed about trade unions, human rights defenders, journalists, etc.'. If I understand the Minister correctly, then the mechanism has already been launched. Can the Minister confirm that? In short, I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this today. I can very well imagine that the Minister too cannot wait to have the debate on CETA in this Chamber. Another issue on which the Minister is aiming with this legislation is international corporate social responsibility. This was discussed in detail on the other side last week. The Minister has finally recognised that the line of successive Cabinets over the last 20 years to allow companies to voluntarily comply with corporate social responsibility, OECD guidelines and UN Guiding Principles has not produced much. Voluntary agreements and agreements meant no commitment for the companies in practice. The Minister has expressed many praises. Commissioner Reynders expects that he will soon come forward with European legislation on this issue. Can the Minister indicate what this instrument is based on? Can it already outline the Dutch position on the basis of the contours of the expected European legislation? Finally. Will the Minister promise that this Chamber will also be informed in good time, both procedurally and in substance, of the European and national legislative proposals relating to imvo? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. We are talking here today about the budget for external trade and development cooperation, a budget that has been given extra charge and urgency in this corona time. The unprecedented global corona crisis brings us back to thinking about our globalised world economy, about how neoliberal globalisation complicates the UN's goal of eradicating poverty, but also, for example, contributes to the risk of pandemics. We're curious how the Minister looks at this. Does the Minister also see in the corona pandemic a reason to reconsider the advantages and disadvantages of globalisation, and hence the design of our global economy? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The number of people living in extreme poverty, defined as having to spend less than $1.90 a day, is expected to increase further by the World Bank. This means that over 9% of the world's population will live in extreme poverty. This after years of decline, which is mainly due to one country, namely China. But also for the corona crisis, the decline of extreme poverty slowed down due to a combination of conflicts and climate change. The corona crisis is now turning that into an increase, but the trend was already negative. Mr. Chairman. The corona virus hits the poor in the world disproportionately hard. So it certainly should not be time to cut the development cooperation budget, but that is what this government is actually doing, for the most part through a cash drawer. I believe that this minister is the only one of all her colleagues who has to cut back at this time. The question is whether she considers this choice to be justified. If we cannot now opt for more rather than less solidarity, then when? Mr. Chairman. We note that optimism about the rapid decline in extreme poverty in recent years is now suddenly gone. The question is whether this was justified earlier. The definition of "extreme poverty" as "less than $1.90 a day," suggesting that people sitting just above it are no longer extremely poor, is rightly a lot of criticism. If we take a slightly broader definition, we will get a different perspective. For example, the number of people who have less than $5.50 a day to spend, about half of the world's population, has hardly declined in all these years. Would the Minister like to reflect on this? The former UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights, Philip Alston, wrote the following words at his farewell, and I quote from a piece in The Guardian: "The coronavirus has only made the pandemic of poverty visible. COVID-19 came into a world in which poverty, extreme inequality and neglect of human life flourished and where legal and economic policies were designed to create and maintain wealth for the powerful and not to end poverty." What does the Minister think of these words from the former UN rapporteur? Does she share this analysis? Does she also see that much of the policy, perhaps in spite of its good intentions, in individual countries and internationally maintains inequality and lack of human dignity? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. For the SP Group, the fight against inequality and poverty begins and the promotion of global development based on a broad concept of prosperity with the recognition that underdevelopment is structural, located in the structures of our capitalist global economy. That half of the world's population, despite many years of economic growth, is still living in great poverty, is also the result of the raw capitalism that we have worldwide. I know this minister doesn't want to bow down to radical socialists. And of course you don't have to. But I hope she doesn't want to bow down to this raw capitalism either. But it is good to realize that capitalism, which causes so much exploitation, inequality and destruction of the viability of our planet, is not a natural phenomenon, but a system that is made possible and maintained by law and policy. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is also part of this. Which brings me to another minister's wallet. Despite the current crisis, this minister continues to believe in the wonders of free trade rather than fair trade. The government is facing an agenda of ever more free trade and wider jobs for cross-border investors and multinationals that can do so, even if they are in the fossil industry, are responsible for destroying the environment of whole groups of people and for rapid global warming. But this minister doesn't see it, or doesn't want to see it. She said in the newspaper that she only sees companies that want to be responsible. Maybe they want to be, but they're not in practice. I assume that the government is also familiar with the history of Shell in Ogoniland in Nigeria, which has also been the subject of a recent court ruling. And what role has the Dutch government played in this? Mr. Chairman. The close links between Dutch embassies and multinationals such as Shell, especially in countries with multinationals working in the fossil industry, have for years been a thorn in the eye of this group. But the Minister doesn't want to have this investigated. Why not? That's how I'm asking the Minister. Rather, the government wants to involve the private sector even more in achieving the SDGs. But how are you going to do that if you just want to encourage them to take responsibility? Mr Karimi has just mentioned that the government is now happy to acknowledge that this is not always enough. But we're still not reading enough about this in the Minister's papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Van Apeldoorn's passing a little on Shell. Of course, it doesn't deserve a beauty prize for what happened in Nigeria. I admit that. He also refers to the Dutch government. But isn't it also up to the Nigerian Government to point that out? They're letting Shell on their territory, aren't they? And isn't it true that all this poverty in Africa is largely caused by corruption, by the corrupt regimes, who allow it all and who don't give their own people a good life?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u7	These are two questions. I believe that the responsibility of the Nigerian Government is great with regard to the tragedy that took place in Ogoniland in Nigeria, how it cooperated with Shell, allowed it, oppressed the Ogoni people and violated human rights on a large scale. That's obvious. I believe that we should also appeal to the Nigerian Government, and I will do so. Only now I am speaking to this minister, who is here on behalf of this government and not on behalf of the Nigerian Government. When it comes to corruption, corruption is huge in Africa. By the way, this is not just the case with Africa. We see corruption all over the world, but certainly also under many African regimes. But I do not believe that this is the cause of global inequality and poverty in Africa. It does not contribute to its solution, but, as I have just argued, its causes are more structural and you should also see corruption as a symptom of the same phenomenon of structural inequality rather than a cause of it. Had these countries not been so underdeveloped, those regimes would not have been so corrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u8	I won't go too far, but I think we have a disagreement here. I think corrupt regimes certainly have a big part to play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u9	We have that disagreement, I think, for sure. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. I was talking about the responsibility of multinational companies and how to encourage them to take responsibility. But the question is also how to make global supply chains more sustainable, as I believe this Minister rightly says, if you are at the same time committed to more free trade and free movement of investment, without restrictions based on wages, labour standards and environmental standards. Can the Minister explain this? Mr. Chairman. My group notes that the government believes, above all, that multinationals should be given even more jobs than they already have. That is why they and the government are in favour of trade and investment agreements, in which even special courts are created for them, with a special court, outside the Dutch judiciary, which is only accessible to them. This is not only legal and constitutionally dubious, but also very bad for the progressive agenda that this minister and the government claim to be in favour of. Nevertheless, we are continuing on this path. Now the EU is again negotiating an investment treaty with China, including an ISDS clause, which would give far-reaching legal protection to Chinese multinationals in Europe, including Chinese multinationals vis-à-vis EU Member States and, for example, the European energy and telecommunications sector. Does the government really think this is desirable? Does she really want such a treaty to come? And then CETA, Chairman. My group, like the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, deeply regrets that this Chamber has still not decided to discuss this treaty in plenary. After 274 pages of answers to our questions in two rounds, a majority of this Chamber still doesn't consider this bill ready to be dealt with. First of all, we want to await the further development of the so-called European notification mechanism. The Brussels hotline is presented by some, not least by the Minister himself, as a major step forward. As if it creates some kind of level playing field between companies on the one hand and NGOs, trade unions and other stakeholders on the other. As if there were some kind of compensation for, or a supplement to, the ICS system in CETA, or similar clauses in other and future investment and trade agreements. But this mechanism does not change tittel or jota to ICS as it is now part of the CETA Convention. Can the Minister confirm this? In concrete terms, can the Minister confirm that the Investment Court System, the special court for multinationals, simply with or without Brussels' hotline remains a full part of CETA and that the European Commission's foreseen complaint mechanism does not change the law or de facto anything about this? I'd like a clear answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u10	I listen with interest to Mr Van Apeldoorn, as always. I would like to ask him a question about CETA. I have always had the impression that he did not need these 274 questions, because his group was against them anyway. Would he not nevertheless like to do the thinking exercise with me whether the fact that CETA is at this stage could perhaps contribute to the fact that the Minister in Brussels can ask a number of questions that she has now asked and which have led to a certain success with regard to that notification procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you to Mr Backer for this question. Firstly, did we need these 274 pages, because did we not know in advance that we were against this treaty? I believe that Mr Backer has also reached a certain conclusion, on the basis of the examination of the Treaty, that the D66 Group had already reached a certain conclusion in response to all these questions. My group looks at this differently from Mr Backer's group. Is it true that the fact that this treaty is before us and also in other countries for ratification has given the Minister and the Government the opportunity to make a plea in Brussels for the complaints mechanism? Yeah, it could be. But that is no reason for us to be in favour of CETA, because that is putting the horse behind the cart. We believe that CETA would be a huge deterioration, because of that Investment Court System. If you say: that gives us the opportunity to make up a little bit for it through that grievance mechanism, then you turn around. In future, I will demonstrate that I am not convinced that the complaints mechanism would be an improvement at all. But even if it was, that is no reason to say: we are not going to deal with CETA here and say what we think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u12	I collect the positive first part of the answer and the second part is about the heart of matter, CETA itself. So I think we should keep that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u13	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u14	All right, thank you. Hopefully we'll get back to that in this house. However, I have just pointed out that in reply to Mr Backer's question, it is a question of whether the civil society organisations that are committed to sustainability or human rights will be stronger with this complaints mechanism at all to the large business community. Is it true, as I ask the Minister, that NGOs, trade unions or citizens from outside the EU cannot complain? Is it true that the complaints mechanism also gives businesses new opportunities to complain to the European Commission if other countries deny them access to their markets or restrict them access? Is it true that it is further up to the European Commission whether and how and within what timeframe they deal with the complaints? How then does it make EU trade policy more progressive and more consistent with the values that this minister claims to represent? If it were true that it would be an improvement that would create more balance, why continue to conclude new trade agreements with an ISDS clause or an ICS clause at the same time? Why not stop with these treaties, in which that balance is completely lost? So why not, as I say to Mr Backer, give up CETA? For the rest, I would like to join Mr Karimi's questions on the status of this mechanism. Is that complaints mechanism in place or not? And if there is, my group is also asking itself, but the Minister is not talking about what we are still waiting for in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. If we really want to do something about the inequality and poverty in the world and the destruction of our environment, about the climate crisis, then we will have to tackle the root causes of this. Call me a radical socialist, but for my group these are the root causes of global capitalism itself. So that should not be given more room for manoeuvre with trade and investment agreements, which strengthen the position of multinational companies, mobile capital. You will have to break down the power structures that make the rich richer in the corona era, billionaires in the world become as much as a quarter richer and let half the world live in poverty. This government has not yet begun, but that is not surprising. In the meantime, development aid, which in any case leaves these structures untouched, is going to be even less than more money. For now, we can only hope that the next cabinet will reverse this. In the meantime, I look forward to replying to what will be the last budgetary discussion of this minister in this cabinet, although we hope to see her again before the elections to debate CETA. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr President. We in this Chamber are generally reluctant to deal with separate budget chapters. I spoke on behalf of the D66 Group in the General Financial Reviews. I look back on a good debate with Minister Hoekstra. In fact, the financial policy instruments for next year's government budget have been put in place. We also noted at that time that we were in a very different situation than all those years before and that we had a lot of foreseeable and predictable problems, such as the Brexit. The effects are now quickly coming towards us. The trade war with America First and China's expansion. Anyway, everything's different now because of the corona pandemic. Yesterday it was decided once again to lock down almost completely. So this is the last meeting of this Chamber this year, I suspect. It is therefore a pity that we can talk to this minister today. The numbers of the pandemic, the number of infections, are constantly rising throughout the world. More than 54 million people have been infected. More than 1.5 million people have died. In our own country more than 10,000 people have died and that number is still growing. A number of colleagues have rightly said that we can take income support measures here; massive measures, for which the group is grateful to the cabinet. But of course there are also countries where the resistance to this pandemic is much and much lower. I am also pleased that we have managed to maintain the horizon outside the Netherlands by taking these measures. I shall come back in a moment to discuss the budget. Mr. Chairman. There is physical weakness from poverty, from illness, from ill-functioning governments, from the lack of infrastructure and simple things that we take for granted, such as reliable drinking water and sewers, from the lack of protection against climate change. That's where the pandemic comes in. Van Apeldoorn also sketched it very poignantly. The economies, which were just beginning to catch up, are now falling even further behind. Look at the financial analysis. In the Netherlands we are talking about a mortgage interest rate of 2.8%. In Ghana, it's 34%. This also means that there is no investment money to do things and that the backlog that was already there will increase further. What does this mean for the realisation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals? What is our contribution and what can we do to it? Could we have done more if we had had support in the coalition? That point was just made. Mr. Chairman. How quickly situations can change. In February, I was in favour of a programme by the Netherlands Institute for Multiparty Democracy, NIMD, in Addis Ababa, for a programme on how to write an election program and how to organize parties. Let me look at the President, because we have a common past in this, not in Ethiopia but in the Netherlands. This was aimed at the elections that were to take place in August. What happened? Civil war. The man who had the Nobel Peace Prize, President Abiy, has invaded part of his own country. What is the situation on the ground, I ask the Minister. There are huge flows of refugees. I am afraid to ask about the continuation of the democratic effort, because that seems to me very far away. What can the Netherlands still do in this? Mr. Chairman. Against the backdrop of all these disruptions, which, of course, were already there in trade and now with the pandemic, the D66 Group is pleased that at least the Minister managed to keep course and maintain its budget. There was already the necessary criticism of international trade flows. What effect does the pandemic have? There may be trade flows that Members say is not fair trade. But to some extent it is trade where some low-wage countries exist, whether we think it is moral or not. What are the consequences of this? How is that going to recover if the pandemic is under control, and then in the way we would like it to be? Mrs Karimi outlined a number of poignant situations. Of course there are, but the other side of the coin is that world trade also generates income in poor countries. Mr. Chairman. It cannot be avoided: a single word about CETA. It just came up in the middle of an interruption. I do not want to disappoint colleagues Karimi and Van Apeldoorn by not saying anything about it. At least for my group, this is not about political desirability, but more about what status is now. At the request of a majority of this Chamber, we received the Minister's last report on the introduction of the notification. What follow-up steps does she see? What role is there for cooperation with the French colleague? That is where the initiative originally came from. I am actually curious about the Canadian Government's reaction. Very practical: what are the latest developments in export volumes and their value to and from Canada since the provisional entry into force? Mr. Chairman. I would like to wish the Minister and the whole cabinet wisdom in the important and complex decisions and the many dilemmas that exist in the Minister's portfolio, but also in the Netherlands. I will just finish, because I see Mr Van Apeldoorn approaching threateningly. I know the minister has a special connection with the town of Bethlehem. I wish her a Merry Christmas with her family.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u18	Not threatening, I say to Mr. Backer. I just have an informative question. What would Mr Backer think would be good for, as far as he has been able to study that? Why would we need that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u19	One of the 274 questions that came along was the issue of insufficient access for civil society organisations to the normal complaints system. There was no window for that. There was another discussion on who could participate in dispute resolution. But that's another point. I do not know all the details yet, but I think that with the notification there is at least a window open for those organisations that felt inadequate at that point. It opens up, I think, but that is a question for the Minister, a dialogue with civil society about what it can mean for these and also for future trade agreements. I think of it as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u20	Clear, but if Mr Backer acknowledges or sees that there is a problem with insufficient access for social groups, NGOs, trade unions and so on to the existing dispute mechanism within CETA, does he not actually recognise that CETA is inadequate in that respect, that it is imperfect and that the complaint mechanism is therefore intended to correct that? Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u21	In the American courtroom, it has a leading question. Ultimately, it is a question of weighting: what is important in a trade agreement? The trade agreement is thus concluded by the European Commission, with the matters that go with it, including the dispute settlement that we are discussing here. Gradually, I believe that the treaty has been on the road for ten years and new insights are emerging in how to improve things. I see this as an improvement, but I don't see it as a "instead." That is the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u23	Finally, Mr President. Of course, Mr Backer and the D66 Group are concerned about their own weighting, but could you at least not conclude that, even if the D66 Group might have had other reasons to be in favour of CETA, it would have been better afterwards to settle it right away in the CETA Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u24	You may say that we have been seen in hindsight, but I think we should have this debate when it comes to this. I went back ten years in time by reading about the original design of the trade agreement. This has been preceded by a whole round by the European Commission. It was like asking, "How would you do that?" And "what are the wishes or not?', But this was actually very little at the time. You can see that this is also a matter of moving insight. There's gonna be new treaties, so maybe there's another option to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u26	I would very much like to discuss the substance of CETA with Mr Backer, but we cannot do so, because it cannot happen because he apparently still needs information. We received a letter from the Minister on 16 November. It makes it very clear what this mechanism is intended to do, how it will work and which are automatically there on that basis, but Mr Backer still needs more information. Could he clarify exactly what he expects from the minister? Then we can take another step in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u27	I would really like to nuance the question. It is not Mr Backer who is asking for it. A majority of political groups in this Chamber are asking for this. Mr Koole took the initiative at the time to ask about the notification procedure. When the letter was received, the majority of the political groups were not in agreement with your group: we would like to know where this leads, what the details are, what the legal basis for this mechanism is and what it can ultimately contribute. In my mind, the Minister also announced in that letter that she would consult with the ESC and civil society. These are developments that we would like to see and which we want to involve in the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u28	My problem or the problem of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is that "finally." When's "finally"? Right now, it's very clear. I recommend you read the letter again. It is already very clear what the legal basis is, how the mechanism will be created and how it will work. When will those questions be answered for Mr Backer? Could he be more explicit about that? We just want to have a moment when we can have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u29	This interruption, of course, has the merit of having a debate that is being held in committee as public as it is. I think that's good. We just have to be careful not to repeat it, because it was also discussed at that time. At that time I was one of the colleagues who indicated that they would like to follow the details and the reporting and would eventually want to be involved. It ultimately depends on the content of the reporting and weighting of each group for itself whether we are ready for a plenary debate, and then we meet again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mrs. Karimi, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u31	Yeah, finally. I have to conclude that Mr Backer does not give a clear answer to the question when he is satisfied with the answers. I await the Minister's answers. I hope that in the second period we will then have a clearer answer from Mr Backer to the question when it will be ready for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u32	Maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you. Mrs Teunissen has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna drop right into the house today. My contribution is first of all a complaint against the disruptive and very unfair free trade and investment agreements that the Minister will continue to defend and promote in 2021; the free trade agreements that sound attractive, but they are not. These agreements place economic growth above fragile values. They undermine sustainability, climate, animal welfare and the rule of law. If we no longer want to make change from fragile values, the only way is to stop doing so. Farmers, scientists and environmentalists have joined forces and are increasingly opposed to trade and investment agreements, as we saw in TTIP, CETA and Mercosur. They are quite right, because global free trade, particularly in agricultural products such as soya for animal feed, meat and palm oil, is causing major problems for the climate and biodiversity and for labour rights. The Party for Animals represents a responsible and sustainable trade within the capacity of the earth. Trade must not be an end in itself, but must be used as a means of the well-being of humans, animals and nature. A majority of the House of Representatives, led by the Party for Animals, opposed the Mercosur Treaty. Where Dutch politics over the past few decades have applauded in the majority when the EU has concluded new trade deals, this has finally been the other way around. A tilting point: The Dutch are done with old destructive economic systems packaged as a new ideal. Support for free trade agreements is crumbling. Not only in the Netherlands, but also in the rest of the world, resistance to these treaties has increased considerably in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u35	I read in the Acts of the House of Representatives that a motion by Mr Ouwehand was adopted. What I find curious is that the motion is about a treaty that is not yet in place. How does Mrs Teunissen see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u36	As we can read in the explanatory memorandum to the budget, the Netherlands is also actively working on trade agreements such as Mercosur in the past and now other treaties. It is, of course, very important that as a parliament, the Netherlands should also make known its commitment to these negotiations. That is why it is very useful to send out the message in advance that our Parliament does not want to contribute to Mercosur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u37	Speaking of signals, I read in a message that the Party for Animals is preparing for cabinet participation. I thought that was a very interesting development. I would like to ask Mrs Teunissen, whom we will probably see across Parliament next year, how she sees the government's participation in trade policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u38	I think this is a very progressive question with which I think far ahead of the music. Now we as the Party for Animals are used to walking far ahead of the music, but in this case I would not want to do that. We have not indicated that we are preparing for cabinet negotiations or participation in a cabinet. We say that we do not exclude cabinet participation. That seems to me to be a very good position in this case to go along with the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Backer, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u40	I thought "I'm going to submit a Mercosur motion," but it's too early. I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u41	For a Mercosur motion, Mr Backer can always get inspiration from Mrs Ouwehand. A majority of the House of Representatives, led by the Group of the Party of Animals, has therefore turned away from the Mercosur Convention. I'm just gonna highlight it. The Eminence Grise of D66, Jan Terlouw, said at the 50th anniversary of D66: "We don't want to be ruled by multinationals." He also sees with suffering eyes how his party mates turn the party's original ideas into small money in all-destructive free trade. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis should be a wake-up call. Also out of well-understood self-interest man should leave primordial forests and rainforests untouched. Economic activities in sensitive natural areas lead to increased human contact with wildlife. This increases the risk of jumping viruses and bacteria from animal to human. This increases the chances of the emergence of new pandemics. There are currently advanced negotiations with Indonesia and other South-East Asian countries and with South America. These trade deals reduce these countries to producers of cheap animal feed and cheap meat for the European market. You could say: it's colonialism in a modern jacket and on hip sneakers. Mr. Chairman. What is sustainable about exporting more cheese to Canada? What is sustainable about putting Dutch chicken on the Chinese market, for which the Netherlands is now doing its best, just because in Western Europe the price of chicken is under pressure, including by importing poultry meat from Brazil, Thailand and not to mention Ukraine? You know: we said no to that in a referendum, but D66 not only profiled itself as an anti-referendum party, but also did not put out a hand to prevent the European market from being flooded by Ukrainian pluff chicken. No European poultry farmer can compete against this because the rules are even less strict than in Europe. What's sustainable about this? It is clear that free trade has become an end in itself. So I come to the treaty on which the debate in this House has been postponed for months and blocked by the coalition: CETA. The CETA text of the Convention does not contain any instruments to enforce agreements on sustainable trade and labour. In fact, the text states that the chapters on the environment and labour are excluded from sanctions which do apply to the trade agreements made in the Treaty. This undermines CETA's ambitious sustainable agenda, which we do need very much. However, a non-paper from the Netherlands and France on better enforcement of environmental, climate and labour standards in trade agreements appeared. This could be done by raising trade tariffs again in the event of non-compliance with, for example, the Paris climate agreement, we could read. So it's a discussion paper, not a proposal or a decision. A letter also came to us from the European Commissioner for Trade on the complaints mechanism; anything to meet the legitimate objection to trade and investment agreements that environmental, climate and labour standards would not be properly secured. But this letter also does not have the status of proposal or decision. The parties who were initially here in this house against the treaty seem to be stunned by machinations around a possible insert, which should strengthen the position of trade unions and environmental organisations in dispute mechanisms. Now that we cannot properly debate this because the majority in the First Chamber is blocking the treatment of CETA pending this complaint mechanism, I ask the Minister if she can give an insight into the state of play on this complaint mechanism. My second question to the Minister is whether it is true that these good intentions have no effect at all on the CETA Convention, as is the case with the First Chamber. It's been negotiated by now. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The government also wants, as we can read in the explanatory memorandum, to continue to work on modernisation and reform of investment agreements and investor-state dispute resolution. The Animal Party wants the negotiations on treaties in which such a dispute mechanism is in place to be stopped. This protection will give multinational companies additional legal protection on top of the normal rights they already have. Under the threat of claims, these multinationals can actively influence the policies of governments, including the Dutch, to their advantage. This is in particular a major step-in-the-way for ambitious climate policy and affects the democratic rule of law. The Animal Party is in favour of a trade policy that serves climate, biodiversity, public health, human and animal rights and regional agriculture, not the short-term interests of multinationals and the agro-industry. My question to the Minister is why she continues to focus on the dispute mechanisms, which undermine the development and functioning of legal states worldwide. Mr. Chairman. Then about climate and deforestation. The cabinet has invented a wonderful trick that is being applied more and more often, as we noticed, including in the budget. Climate and deforestation objectives are being met, but then more ambitious targets are being advocated for greening. This is happening all over the world, as it turns out five years after the Paris Agreement. To quote climate activist Greta Thunberg: "They set hypothetical targets and make big statements, but when it comes to the immediate action we need, we are still in a state of complete denial." For example, it says in the budget: "Implementation of the Paris Agreement and increasing the level of ambition remain key elements of the international climate policy that the Cabinet actively promotes." When it comes to deforestation, it says: "The political dialogue with producer countries will also continue, in order to increase ambitions for deforestation-free production and minimum wages." Mr. Chairman. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, the Netherlands is the fourth importer of soya beans, which are mainly used for animal feed. Last year, the Netherlands imported EUR 761 million in animal feed, which was mainly intended for Dutch pig farming. That was the largest trade flow from Brazil to the Netherlands. The Netherlands thus has an important part to play in destroying the rainforest. Last year, in Brazil, an area of three times the forest area in the Netherlands was set on fire for agriculture. It is almost impossible to comprehend how many trees that goes and how many animals have lost their homes. How will the Minister, in the context of immediate action, exclude that soy for Dutch feed contributes to the further deforestation of the Amazon and further increase the pandemic threats arising from it? A question that follows: how does the cabinet reconcile its international commitment to growing more forests to combat the climate crisis with the subsidies granted by the government to biomass? This will encourage the cutting of primordial forests in Estonia. Surely it is clear that the greenest cabinet has ever ignored old and valuable ecosystems in this way? Mr. Chairman. Then my final point, that's about the Uighurs. The cabinet states in the explanatory statement: "The Netherlands strives to ensure that the production of goods and services takes place worldwide in a sustainable and responsible manner. The cabinet sees a role for the private sector, governments and civil society organisations. COVID-19 offers an opportunity to address weaknesses in systems and to redesign value chains sustainably and responsibly." The Minister therefore wants to redesign value chains in a sustainable and responsible way. This brings me to the situation of the Uighurs in China. Hundreds of thousands of Uighurs are trapped in re-education camps, concentration camps actually, and are forced to work under inhumane conditions on cotton plantations and spinning mills. Even their head hair is taken from them to be exported to Europe and the United States. A pure crime against humanity. Human rights organisations have been ringing the bell for years. Uighurs are locked up, tortured and brainwashed. Escape is impossible, because cameras are everywhere. The cotton produced by these modern enslaved ones is taken away by large brands like Adidas, Tommy Hilfiger and Zara and then sold in clothing stores worldwide. A coalition of 180 NGOs states that almost all modern fashion brands are linked to this forced labour. Nevertheless, the Minister refused to embrace two motions of the House of Representatives which would counter the import of Uighur's clothing and encourage the Dutch clothing and textile companies to leave Xinjiang. According to her, that would be the responsibility of companies themselves. I would like to clarify that again today. The cabinet cannot afford to turn its back on a large group of forced labourers abroad, which also makes it impossible for the Dutch consumer to be sure that they do not buy products with blood on them. Can the Minister tell us on the basis of which rules it can and will intervene? And if there is no appropriate legislation or policy for it, can it do so? If not, how, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, is it going to redesign value chains in a sustainable and responsible way, as the government's policy is intended to do? I'd like a response. The Animal Party believes that companies should be required to identify, prevent and address human rights violations, environmental pollution, animal welfare degradation and biodiversity loss in their chains. Is the Minister prepared to oblige companies to provide transparency about the production and trade chains of their products? Finally, Mr President. The corona crisis offers an opportunity to tackle and solve in a coherent way the health crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the climate crisis we face. Economic growth is not the solution, it is the problem. The Netherlands cannot be the milkman and the butcher of the world. More free trade is not good for human rights and climate. This goes against our nature and the common interest of all earthlings, of which we, humans, are only 0.01%. Returning to business as usual, such as by concluding free trade agreements with third countries, is no longer an option as far as the Animal Party is concerned. A society in which people live in harmony with other species, with our environment and with each other is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I call Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. In dealing with this budget chapter, emphasis is, as expected, mainly placed on the size of the budget for development cooperation, partly because of covid, and on trade policy. This concerns the increase in the budget for the least developed countries and trade policy with countries such as Canada. Let me make a few comments on that. First of all, the best aid is trade. I have been responsible for, among other things, six years for EIB investments in Turkey, sub-Saharan Africa, the Pacific and the Caribbean. Few of us know it, but the level of investment outside Europe of the European Investment Bank is many times greater than that of the World Bank and all other international financial institutions combined. The EIB is ten times larger than the World Bank. It's been noted. I think that I have sometimes included in a speech in sub-Saharan Africa the terms 'development cooperation' and 'development aid' objectionable, colonial, calling and paternalistic. For the record, I am not talking about humanitarian aid after natural disasters and other disasters, such as famine. The Netherlands must then show itself on its best side. The Dutch are also very sensitive to this and donate massively in such circumstances. The Dutch government also contributes to the work of organizations such as the World Food Programme, an organisation of the United Nations that received the Nobel Peace Prize last year. Trade and aid are mutually exclusive. The mere giving of money has counterproductive effects. I can recommend anyone interested in development cooperation to read the book War Games by Linda Polman, indeed a Dutch one. In other words, the size of the budget is of little relevance and the percentage of GDP that the Netherlands spends on development cooperation, too. It's about the way the money's being used. It has been demonstrated that democracy, good governance, the fight against corruption and a free market economy determine the economic growth of those countries and the well-being of the population. It is not just a problem in sub-Saharan Africa, because in the countries where these principles are respected, things are going uphill. I believe that promoting investment in close cooperation with multilateral institutions and private business is the only thing that will help everyone. Several bodies keep an eye on the correct implementation of projects, the use of public money is complemented by private money and the leverage is huge. It is the best guarantee that the aid does not disappear towards a bank account of some dictator in an unintended country. Because I believe in trade and investment so much, it was a bitter disillusionment, Mr President; I know that the minister's predecessor did not believe in it from one day to the next. All MoU's signed by her and me seem to have little more value to her than a rag of paper. That is disappointing, especially since the direction of policy was the right one. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. As you can see, I do not have any specific questions on behalf of my group regarding this budget state. I wish the Minister happy days at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Or would you like a short suspension? That last one, 15 minutes. Then I'll suspend until 10:25.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u45	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Chamber for the questions asked, the input and the opportunity to have a broader discussion today on foreign trade and development cooperation policy. Two years ago, in December 2018, I was also a guest here. Then I spoke to the Chamber about the budget at the time. That was a pleasant and constructive conversation. It is a pleasure to continue this exchange here this year. This will be the last time, too. I hope you will give me the opportunity to explain briefly what has been achieved. Mrs Karimi rightly said: Foreign Affairs does little about legislation, but very much about policy. The international effort continues in the best way, both through Defence, Foreign Affairs and diplomacy, as well as, of course, through trade, development cooperation and at all our international efforts with allies. I would like to give a brief explanation of some of the results that have been achieved, which unfortunately have not been discussed today. Then I will come back in four blocks: trade policy, international corporate social responsibility, the impact of corona, or COVID-19, and the climate. These are the categories under which I organized the questions asked. It's a euphemism to say that a lot has happened since the last time we spoke here. In particular, corona has made existing collateral even more uncertain. This year alone, 115 million people are at risk of falling back into poverty. That is a fall of more than 20 years' commitment to achieving goals to pull people out of poverty. The total number of people who are currently visible, i.e. what has been made understandable, living in poverty, has risen to over 700 million. The number of people suffering from hunger is rising sharply, as is the number of children who will not be able to go to school again or who have been permanently deprived of the opportunity to learn to read or write at all or to make something of themselves. The current crisis has undone years of poverty reduction. From my other hat I say that there is also a grey cloud of unpredictability hanging over our business. A third of the jobs in the Netherlands are created through international trade and investment. There is much prosperity, but also Dutch well-being, depending on our way of acting abroad. 2.4 million jobs depend on this. And more than 180,000 entrepreneurs operate across the border. The Brexit is really getting close, as you know as no other. But there is also no detente in the many trade tensions. All this makes a palette that is heavy and difficult and sometimes feels like a sword of Damocles above this cabinet, but especially above the world population and the population of the Netherlands. These uncertainties form the context in which we operate. That is why this year, too, we are paying close attention to the humanitarian needs, which the United Nations believes will grow strongly, and we are committed to constantly supporting the approach to root causes. This cabinet has deliberately chosen to place the emphasis on the long term. It is only in this way that it is possible to achieve hope and change for those who need it most. Three years ago, this cabinet began a major investment in diplomacy, defence and development cooperation. We are doing this on the basis of the conviction that this combination of aid and trade is working. It is also the combination that meets the demand of many of the countries with which we work and where we work. That's why we have a firm commitment to this portfolio. As Minister for Foreign Trade and Development, I have given my hands and feet to a policy paper entitled Investing in perspective. I was able to discuss this with your Chamber in October 2018. I am convinced that this note has not only stood the test of time, but has also proved its worth under pressure from events. The Dutch commitment is a prevention agenda, aimed at addressing root causes. This means that the United Nations' sustainable development goals, which we have all signed as Member States, are our compass. With this agenda in hand, I, of course, together with my colleague Stef Blok of Foreign Affairs and all the officials and the staff of the embassies, have designed this commitment throughout the world and, of course, through all the contacts and partnerships we have supported. Work is under way to achieve the sustainable development goals, together with the Paris Agreement. The results we get are there. We've been focusing on education. This has been reduced as a cabinet priority, after years of being away from the Dutch portfolio. We have focused on creating jobs, training and education for young people, especially in the regions that the Cabinet had designated as focus regions. This was part of a broader shift in Dutch development cooperation policy. The main focus of the cabinet was also shifted to a number of fragile regions such as the Sahel, the Horn of Africa and also the Middle East and North Africa. It is from there that millions of people flee poverty, oppression, war, violence or corrupt governments. It is also there that the Netherlands can make a big difference with modest resources but a smart commitment and is seen as a reliable partner. The spending of the Netherlands in the focus regions has increased by one third, because we have focused on selectivity and on choices, and because we have put priorities in place. This commitment will prove more necessary today than ever before. In particular, I would like to highlight two more themes that will be recognised by everyone and which are important from a consistent approach from various Dutch cabinets. That is, of course, the commitment we make all over the world to protecting women's and girls' rights, access to education, but also access to health care, including sexual rights, wider healthcare and the right to have access to one's own body, including access to safe abortion. Conservative forces put this under constant pressure, but the Netherlands remains a stable and reliable partner in this, to help women and girls around the world realize their rights. A second aspect that often does not come to light here, but is extremely important and has been highlighted by the corona crisis, is access to mental health care. Many young people and many people affected by expatriation or as refugees find themselves in a shelter-in-the-region situation, besides food and a roof over their heads, have what is often a canvas, especially need for access to mental health care. We have become the frontrunner in this as the Netherlands. In this corona crisis, too, it is clear that this is important. We see this during the corona crisis here in the Netherlands: man is not whole without the combination of insight and support of the body, but also a healthy mind. The Netherlands has built up an international profile with this. This is not something that gets much attention in the Netherlands, but it is the silent successes, the beautiful gems with which the Netherlands reveals itself and is distinctive. Despite limited resources, it has therefore taken a leadership role. We are, of course, doing the same with our commitment to climate change. The Netherlands has been chairman of the Nationally Determined Contributions Partnership for two years. Again, not something the national media achieves, but together with Costa Rica, we have spent two years helping countries through access to expertise, financial resources and bringing together the right examples of how to combat climate change in the poorest countries. That's what the Netherlands did. It has cost little, but it has delivered a great deal in countries such as Niger, Ghana and, in fact, in many countries where climate change is hitting hard. I would just like to mention these two as specific examples of how much work is being done by Dutch officials, by our partners, by Dutch civil society organisations and, of course, by our international partners, from the World Bank to the United Nations. But more is needed, and I think I understand your appeal from this Chamber very well. That's how I experience it myself. We may not be able to do everything. The resources have also been limited here, but our commitment is sharp, is fundamental, is normative and we dare to make choices. The Netherlands is looked at over and over again, at what we think and what we do and that has a huge positive impact, also on the reputation of the Netherlands itself. We have therefore committed ourselves to international cooperation, even if this has proved difficult. The pressure on international cooperation is still increasing. Economic uncertainties and climate change will also be felt hard at home. Because of the coronavirus, it is understandable that the world's glances are less outward at the moment, but it is important that we manage to maintain that connection between inside and outside, because ultimately we will only be able to get out of it by supporting the weakest link in the chain with all of us. In these difficult times, the cabinet has also chosen to invest EUR 500 million extra in direct support for the poorest. This is part of the cabinet's vision to invest in perspective. Unfortunately, when we look around, we see the need for this confirmed. Poverty, corona, persistent geo-economic tensions have no boundaries and will not disappear on their own. It is in our interest, also in the Dutch interest, and it is within our reach to find solutions and to invest in perspective. That is good for the world and also good for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the answers to the questions as asked. I come to the first heading: trade policy, among which I have also sorted CETA. I think it is right to say that the Netherlands has always been committed to strengthening and modernising the multilateral trading system, to making trade more sustainable and to making it more resistant to unfair commercial practices. A few examples. We want a concrete timetable for reducing China's development status in the World Trade Organisation. Many of the topics on the agenda of this cabinet's China note are in progress. I refer, for example, to unfair competition through state subsidies. There are, of course, other proposals that we are working on. We strengthen the China capacity of the RVO. Companies, local authorities and knowledge institutions can ask questions about China. We are also committed to a fairer lending policy of the international financial institutions. The result is an interest-rate premium for loans to richer middle income countries such as China within the World Bank. Having said this, it is of course important that we do so from within the European Union. That is why we are playing an active role in the review of the European Union's trade agenda. An important example of this is the French-Dutch initiative to make trade agreements more future-proof, with much more attention being paid to sustainability and societal interests. The so-called non-paper also strongly advocates the inclusion of obligations arising from the Paris Agreement as an essential element in comprehensive and new trade agreements. The European Commission has taken this on board. We are also actively participating in the debate on open strategic autonomy. We have all noticed how vulnerable we were, how dependent the chains were on certain sources of food, in this case China, but it could also have been India when it comes to medicines. The debate that has begun and which is about strategic economy is one of the ways in which a resilient, economically competitive European Union can be formed. But the open trading system is the fair open trading system, so I say immediately, because that is the goal of this will not be thrown overboard. It will be examined whether and to what extent and in what way intervention is useful. Mr. Chairman. By the way, when the newly elected President Biden took office in the United States on 20 January, I see here a huge opportunity to speak again with an important partner such as America about the opportunities to organise trade differently and to make the Paris Agreement so central that agreements can be arranged differently and that we can raise the country, because that has always been the commitment of this cabinet: not down but up. Let me now turn to the specific questions that have been asked. I thank Mr Van Apeldoorn for making me feel like a student at my age. Do I see any reason to reconsider the advantages and disadvantages of globalisation? I think the pros and cons...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u47	I didn't really want to stop the minister in her reasoning, but I was wondering. Perhaps there are colleagues in the Chamber who know better, but when will a non-paper become a white paper or a green paper or a real piece of the Commission? Is that what this is all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u48	I may have to come back to the technical answer in the second term, but large parts have been taken over. At the same time, France and the Netherlands are actively engaged in lobbying, influencing other Member States to ensure broad support. At that time, the Commission is usually ready to reconfirm the large parts. But I think that the corona crisis, the economic recession and the importance of green recovery are reflected in the Dutch-French non-paper that we submitted in November last year. My French colleague and I have long concluded that we cannot go on like this. If we want to continue with international trade, open, fair and sustainable, then we must take the lead ourselves and not wait for the European Commission. It is a political task for us to present the examples and ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u49	You continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you. The advantages and disadvantages of globalisation were, of course, already the subject of discussion before the corona crisis. I think, unfortunately, they may have become more acutely clear when it comes to disguise. We have become extremely aware of the distortions and sensitivities, but also of what the corona crisis has brought about, including in the Netherlands, in terms of inequality. We saw them twice as hard. Poverty in the Netherlands and, to an even greater extent, poverty elsewhere, where people have nothing to get through the day. Think of the day laborers. For me, the discussion is not about the question of whether or against globalisation. It is about how we can set up our global system in such a way that it is fair, sustainable and accountable. This applies to companies, but also to governments, of course. There's a government responsibility. SDG 17 deals with the fight against corruption, taxation, the fight against tax avoidance or worse. There are all kinds of important packages. The international corporate social responsibility framework, which I discussed with the House of Representatives last week, is an important national element in its implementation. Furthermore, we look at reshoring. What is strategic autonomy? What are we going to produce here again? On what terms? How can we at the same time organise our international commitment through the private sector but also through the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in such a way that it promotes sustainability and inclusive growth? As Minister for Trade, I am very involved and lead many trade missions. The quote you are referring to comes from a much broader conversation in which I mentioned the many companies, start-ups and scale-ups, which I knew, and which are offering technology to help countries create jobs as well as achieve the UN's sustainable development goals in a fair and inclusive way. That's actually what that quote is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u51	I certainly didn't mean to put the minister in the role of student. We are all students and we all need to learn from this corona crisis and rethink globalisation and how to shape it. I suppose the government does, too, because governance is forward-looking. That's where my question came from. However, I welcome the Minister's reply, insofar as I am pleased to hear that this cabinet is also thinking about reshoring, how it might be encouraged and why it is necessary. I would like to come back to something that also has to do with globalisation. We are not against globalisation either, but the question is what kind of globalisation and how to shape it. The Minister said: we stick to an open and fair trading system. Take the current trading system. I am not talking about CETA or specific trade agreements, but about, for example, the World Trade Organisation. From the point of view that the Minister has just appointed sustainability, inclusive growth, fair trade: should there not be a change in the current trading system, for example with regard to the World Trade Organisation and its rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u52	I give you my response. Everyone in his working life, of course, has a number of frustrations, with every function one can perform. One of them is the lack of reform, or progress, of the World Trade Organisation. The World Trade Organisation itself, but also by the Member States and not only the OECD Member States, is stuck in an old pattern. If we really want to achieve sustainability, the World Trade Organisation should ideally also state what the production requirements are. Now that is not the case. I think this is going to be a huge barrier if you really want to make that sustainability hit. That must be a political approach. I assume that the possible new dg will really have to work on that. I'm definitely gonna have that conversation with her. At least it's a female leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u53	That's great to hear. That is also the point on which I wanted to ask a question. This is also a major problem from the point of view of our group: the World Trade Organisation does not take production into account. If other countries compete through low wages, low environmental standards and so on, then we cannot set tariffs and we simply have to accept it as it is. Then there is complete free trade. The Minister now also says that this should be changed. Does this apply not only to environmental standards, but also to social standards, labour rights and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u54	There's no cabinet position yet, but here's what I'm telling you. I've changed it with the House of Representatives before. I think it is important that we carry out a structural review of this. We live in the 21st century. We know how much structural poverty is. Digitalisation will only double the large differences and inequality. There's a layering in the exclusion of people. The second is that we have to look at production requirements. When it comes to achieving a structural sustainability in the chain, the cabinet should, in any case, take a critical look at what a fair and viable wage is. Last year I asked the International Labour Organisation to launch a study in seven different countries in order to make a comparison. It is often used as an argument that one country is not the other. This means that we will never achieve anything other than a minimum wage. But a minimum wage is not a fair and viable wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u55	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u56	In any case, I think it is a positive move on the part of the Cabinet and the Minister. The minister just said that there is no cabinet position yet, so it's not quite clear to me yet. If that cabinet position gets there, we'll be happy to hear it. When the Minister talks with the new Women's Director-General of the World Trade Organisation, we would like to hear what their commitment will be. If the Minister can promise that this will be on paper, for example in a letter to this Chamber, I would be grateful to her for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u57	I'm happy to do this. This is also the subject of constant discussion with the House of Representatives. With the entry of a new Director-General, should there be no changes in the appointment procedure, given that the Americans have a new President, these will be important issues. I believe that this will also be the task of the new Director-General: these are the four or five issues that need to be considered critically and for which a solution needs to be found if the World Trade Organisation is to do its work seriously and remains relevant. I can share the cabinet's commitment in due course. It must of course be noted that we are all doing this through the European Commission, because that is where the mandate lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u58	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u59	Then I have some questions about CETA. As you know, the Cabinet is awaiting the planning of a date by this Chamber, but I will answer the actual questions that have been asked anyway. The complaint mechanism was launched by the Commission on 16 November. That is in line with the Dutch and also the French commitment. As you know from my letter, I undertook to consult civil society organisations themselves together with the Economic and Social Council. I would like to hear their views on the way in which they have been taken into account, because there is still a moment of improvement. I also discuss this mechanism with my French colleague along the lines of our joint paper on trade and sustainability, because you cannot separate those two things. We are going to share this with the European Commission. I will inform your Chamber about the results of this. The European Commission has informed Canada of this mechanism. The only thing we know at the moment is that Canada has taken note of this mechanism, but I also know, of course, that Canada is waiting for a follow-up with great regret and that it hopes that ratification by the Member States will be completed in this way. I think you know that from your conversations with the Canadian ambassador. The issue of the complaints mechanism is that NGOs, trade unions and citizens, as well as the alleged lack of compliance with the sustainability agreements in trade agreements, can appoint and follow up on them. I think that the ability to regulate this access that was missing through the ICS is an important improvement. That is our assessment on the part of the cabinet. But the question is then: Mr Van Apeldoorn pointed out there too whether it will change anything about the ICS itself. No, it doesn't change the formal status of the ICS. That was not the intention of the European Commission either. There are different mechanisms for the different target groups. The ICS provides citizens and businesses with legal protection for their investments if they are directly affected by government decisions. The complaints mechanism is there for wider compliance with trade agreements and precisely to address a lack of compliance with the sustainability provisions. Sustainability must then be seen in the broad sense of the word. This includes, for example, labour rights and freedom of expression. The investment chapter is an unchanged part of CETA's text of the Convention, irrespective of the complaint mechanism of trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u60	I'll come back to that trial. The minister says the mechanism has already been launched. Does this mean that civil society organisations can make use of this already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u61	That is one of the questions I asked the committee. Right now, it's been launched on paper. There is still a time to organise this conversation with these civil society organisations at European level, so that they can see whether this really meets the wishes, at least on paper, and can now make improvements. That is also the commitment I have with my European colleague. There is a European Dialogue Channel for civil society organisations across Europe. We think it is important that everything should now be taken into account, rather than finding that it could have been much better in two or three years' time. So there is still a start-up period. Following on from some of the questions raised, I would like to use this period on behalf of the cabinet to make this mechanism as perfect as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u62	Can the Minister make an assessment of the timetable? Discussions are taking place with the ESC and with civil society organisations. Can she make an assessment of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u63	This is difficult, also with regard to the new corona measures. I have recently made an appointment with Mrs Hamer, with the message indeed to speed it up, but to combine appropriate speed and due diligence. I think your room will share that with me. This is a unique opportunity to organise an important part. In doing so, we organise access for civil society, citizens, local NGOs and for those affected in countries that would normally not have access. It may not be particularly important for CETA, but it is very important for the other trade agreements, given the geopolitical environment of the countries involved. So care is appropriate. I don't have a date yet. I have undertaken to inform this Chamber again as soon as everything is completed. The ESC will work with the Dutch trade unions and civil society organisations. Talks are being organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mrs. Karimi, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u65	Finally. Can the Minister then give a political opinion on the fact that the treatment of CETA here in this Chamber has been made dependent on this mechanism which, as you have just said in your reply, does not actually have a direct relationship with ICS?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u66	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u67	I'm not going to make an assessment of the considerations of your Chamber and its various members. I started to share more information to work out this process, as I was asked to do. CETA is a test. Well, that's an important moment. It may also apply to Canada, but this is the time and it is initially linked to CETA. So we can't disconnect those two from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u68	I'd like to clarify something. The Minister said that this complaints mechanism contributes to compliance with the sustainability agreements in CETA, if I have understood her correctly. Is that true? In my view, the complaints mechanism is mainly about increasing the involvement of civil society organisations and trade unions in the disputes that may take place under CETA, but it is not part of the enforcement structure as set out in the Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u69	I read it literally. It concerns "alleged lack of compliance with sustainability agreements." You can have a dispute about that. So the two of them aren't separate from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u70	So, if I understand correctly, civil society organisations can add to this if there is a lack of compliance. However, this complaint mechanism does not ensure that compliance in the Convention itself is regulated differently. So enforcement is not regulated differently in this Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u71	There is now such a specific question about compliance that I would have to go back to the Convention for that. I have promised this Chamber to provide more information as soon as we have received the information from the Commission on the implementation of the complaints mechanism. I don't want to give any assurances here that I should take back afterwards. It's all being prosecuted. I have promised your Chamber that I will give a written feedback on what has happened with the talks with the ESC and the talks at European level. I will also ask the European Commission for more details, and I will then share them with your Chamber. So I would like to park it there until there is an appropriate time for a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mrs Teunissen, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u73	I am so keen on this because I want to make it clear whether this complaint mechanism makes a fundamental difference to this treaty. I want to know whether that changes in any way or not, because if it does not, nothing will stop us as a Chamber from having a debate on CETA here. I would therefore ask the Minister to send a letter to the Chamber within a week in which she explains very clearly what the function of this complaint mechanism is and how it relates to the CETA Convention itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u74	I don't think I need to send a letter about that. Both the First and Second Chambers have long been aware that the treaty does not change. This is an additional mechanism that meets many questions, including the demand of civil society and trade unions to allow dispute resolution, but the treaty, the letter of the treaty, does not change. So this is my answer. I'm coming. It is, of course, up to this Chamber to organise its own agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u75	I'll take a look at the time. Are you at the end of your first block, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u76	Yeah, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u77	And you have three more to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u79	How much more time do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u80	I can go very quickly, Mr President. It may depend more on the questions, but I think it's moving faster now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u81	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether companies also have new opportunities to complain to the European Commission when they had barriers to trade. The short answer is no. They already have their own option under the Single Entry Point. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked whether I consider the agreement with China necessary. The negotiations are under way. In the Lower House, as well as in writing to your Chamber, we stated that this cabinet made an explicit appeal to the European Commission to weigh the quality and impact of this possible treaty, and that we are not in a hurry. I must say, however, that the Netherlands, as the only country, explicitly raised the issue of the Uighurs a few weeks ago, also within the framework of this treaty, as an important issue. The Netherlands has also stated that human rights should be part of a very important discussion. The cabinet will not agree to a draft agreement in which some of the key issues have not been given credible commitments by China towards Europe. Then there was Mrs Teunissen's question as to what is sustainable about exporting cheese to Canada and what is sustainable about exporting more chicken to China. She said: this is just to put the price on the EU market, including for chicken from Ukraine. I don't know exactly if I recognize the whole underlying idea of the question, but this cabinet, as well as previous cabinets, believes that trade can still contribute to an optimal allocation of production resources worldwide. It is a means of achieving global sustainability goals. But, this being said, if sustainability is pursued: we look at the chain. I refer to the beginning of the conversation I had with Mr Van Apeldoorn. The transport of products is not always decisive in determining the carbon footprint of products. It depends. However, I recognise the question of how much our CO footprint is being increased rather than reduced. A very broad climate approach is needed in this respect. There was another question from Mr Backer: what are the latest developments in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mrs Teunissen would like to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u84	The Minister went very quickly, for which I am grateful. Thanks for the answer. I had another question about the Uighurs. It is good to hear that the Minister is indeed paying attention to this when it comes to the treaty, but that is, of course, something for the longer term. In my first term, I also asked the Minister very clearly whether she does not have any more possibilities at the moment, even if it is only to give transparency about the origin of products and the whole production chain. Can we somehow make production chains more transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u85	Yes, this actually comes under the heading of corporate social responsibility, but I can take this question with me right away. I have sent a letter to the House of Representatives to explain once again the government's approach to China and, in particular, the wretched situation of the Uighurs. What the cabinet has already done is to hold talks through the ESC and to talk to VNO-NCW. I always call every CEO myself when there are abuses in their chain, in their company, at their production sites. We've been doing that for years. The second is that we have discussed the proposal on voluntary and binding measures, ivo legislation, since the budgetary procedure in the House of Representatives. It also includes chain transparency, delivery and the option to withdraw. But it still remains a self-contained consideration of companies. That is why the cabinet has said: we share the intention of the motion, but legally the cabinet has no chance of action to force companies to withdraw from China. It was a withdrawal from all over China. So it is all a bit more nuanced, but the intention to promote an approach is very clear. The same applies to transparency. This is being worked on within the framework of the new measures on international corporate social responsibility that the cabinet has recently presented to the House of Representatives. They are widely received and supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u86	I appreciate all the efforts made so far, but when I listen to it that way, there is still a high degree of voluntaryness for companies to meet or not to meet conditions relating to working conditions or sustainability, which we agree with as a government. My question to the Minister is very clear: can it not come up with a law in the short term to ensure that we get transparent trade chains? Do we have that perspective of action?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u87	I really refer to the whole package, the evaluation of the covenants, the evaluation of the options regarding international corporate social responsibility and the legislation that the Cabinet intends to regulate at European level, if not issues where the Cabinet is already working on the implementation of legislation at national level. That's not just a matter of speed. Next year, between February and the middle of next year, we have probably already given much more hands and feet to the ideas, suggestions and framework that is already ready and presented by the cabinet. This is the result of the coalition agreement. No one's trained here. This is the first time that there has been a proposal for a legal framework. It is also thanks to the Netherlands that the development of a legal framework by Commissioner Reynders is being looked at at at European level. I believe that your question is entirely answered by everything that falls within the scope of international corporate social responsibility. The cabinet alone will not force companies to withdraw from countries. That is not legally possible. What will happen, through transparency, through information, through customer awareness and, of course, by its own shareholders, is that companies no longer do so. For example, I am talking to Tommy Hilfiger in Amsterdam, because their headquarters are here, to remind them of their responsibility and our expectation in accordance with OECD guidelines now and the guidance principles of the UN. A great deal of work is being done, but we also need to do this carefully and do it smartly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mrs Teunissen, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u89	Of course, it's not the first time we've talked about this. I appreciate the fact that a legal framework is now in the pipeline. I'm waiting for that, too, with a lot of expectation. I do hope that the efforts of the cabinet will lead to clear regulation and transparency. I myself did not talk about forcing Dutch companies to leave China. That's what the Minister's talking about. In any case, I welcome the intention, but I note that it is very late. I therefore hope that there will soon be concrete results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u90	We are the first to come up with a wide range of measures. That is why Commissioner Reynders, with whom I have close contact, is happy to take this almost entirely, I think. It is late for the world, but we are the first in Europe, because France has very limited due diligence legislation, and so is Germany, where a company is only dealt with with with a financial penalty if it has more than 5,000 employees and a financial value of EUR 20 million. This is just like contrast. The motion to which Mrs Teunissen referred has indeed been dissuaded by the cabinet because of the call for companies to leave China. That was not possible, but we fully share the intention of respecting human rights and chain responsibilities. I think that is why we have already said a great deal on the imvo front. I had another question from Mr Backer on the volume of trade. I'm gonna look him up in my papers... woods, stacking up here. As I said, we know in the summer, between February and the summer of next year, how far it has progressed with the drafting of legislation at European level as regards imvo. Then there was a question from Mr Van Apeldoorn. How can you make global value chains more sustainable if you are simultaneously committed to free trade without restrictions on wages and working conditions? I think we've named that before, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. The government is committed to the importance of fair living wages and cooperation with the ILO, and there is, of course, the commitment we make from development cooperation funds through the many sectors, such as the cocoa sector, but also the textile sector. There are many new possibilities. I also have high expectations of the Chief Trade Enforcement Officer of the European Commission, who must also address and follow up all the abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u91	Did the Minister take care of the imvo section with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u92	Well, I've tried to include the imvo framework in the answer to Mrs Teunissen's questions. That seemed more coherent. I now turn to the questions that have been raised about international corporate social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u93	Then I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u94	There was another question from Mr Van Apeldoorn about imvo. He asked: how do companies behave in practice and what is the role of the Dutch government? We now have a new package on the table in accordance with the drafting of the government agreement, because there was indeed insufficient compliance. The voluntary nature turned out to be too non-committal. At the same time, we know that many companies are looking for handles and frameworks to do the right thing. That is why I believe that the new framework of the IMPs, as outlined, will hopefully lead to a huge improvement. But there's also a sanction mechanism in there. At the moment, it may only be financial sanctions, but we can also think of a stronger measure of punishment in the debate with the Chamber. That depends on the final proposal. Mrs Teunissen asked a question about transparency in the chains. I refer you to the new policy 'From information to obligation: a new impetus for the imvo'. It's working all this out. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked: how do companies contribute to the SDGs if it is all voluntary? I would like to refer back to the new improv policy of the cabinet that is now being worked out. However, it is part of the broader cabinet approach, aimed at both the sustainability of the international value chains and the achievement of the SDGs. I am in constant conversation, including on trade missions, with all companies, sectors and industry organisations about the importance of putting the SDGs at the centre. But volunteering is not enough, as I said, because it is often voluntary, in the absence of a clear framework. We're working on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u95	I welcome the last thing the Minister says, namely that volunteering is not enough. We totally agree on that. I would like to return to another point and a question which I do not think the Minister has answered. It is true that, even though there are a number of companies of good will, there are many companies that do not comply with sustainability requirements and such and that their activities do not contribute to peace and prosperity. I have mentioned the poignant example of the activities of one of Dutch large companies, Shell, in Nigeria. I also asked the question: what is the role of the Dutch embassies? It is true that this minister is rightly committed to the sustainability of global value chains, but has it not also happened in the past that Dutch embassies have facilitated certain practices from their services to Dutch companies and have subsequently covered them, which we are now saying are not at all in line with those requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u96	I'd come up with this, so thank you for that, and we'll get ahead of that. The answer is the same here as in the Lower House. The Shell-Nigeria issue has been discussed with Shell by the current ambassador. Contacts with the Nigerian authorities follow this. Whether criminal offences have been committed in this case is, of course, for judgment purposes, but it is also a responsibility of embassies to establish and facilitate contacts. This has been the case among all Cabinets. That could be from consular to introductions. Of course, conflicts of interest must always be avoided and bribery must be combated. But it is a core task of embassies abroad to defend the interests of all Dutch companies, organisations and citizens. You are indeed asking for the balance sheet to preserve integrity and for the means to act where necessary. The cabinet, which was also appointed at the time, I believe that Minister Blok sees no reason for an additional investigation. I do recognise a struggle in your question: if we want to implement a progressive climate agreement, if we want to conduct international climate action, where is the balance? But the core task of embassies is representation at all times. At the same time, international corporate social responsibility is always part of the core task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u97	The Minister says that it is a core task of our diplomats to facilitate action and serve the interests of our companies abroad. But of course it's about what you facilitate and what kind of business you facilitate. If a company like Shell or other fossil industry companies in developing countries say "it is in our interest to pump as much oil as possible out of the ground here, regardless of its consequences for the environment of the people or whatever it means for human rights and so on," it should be that an embassy says: we are not cooperating. If there's a whistleblower who's gonna pay attention to that, shouldn't that find the way up? Does the Minister agree and has this always happened in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u98	I think there are two layers in your question. One concerns something that we often hear again, perhaps not from Mr Van Apeldoorn, namely whether you need to support a fossil energy company at all. The principle is that Dutch embassies and their employees support and facilitate all Dutch companies and citizens within the framework of the law and of what is appropriate. The second layer, of course, concerns choices. Embassy staff are free to do much more and to find opportunities for companies that want to help start up renewable energy. At the same time, it is not up to us to stand in the way of the legitimate energy expectations of countries themselves. It remains a very difficult one, but the unhonest, bribery, pressure; all this cannot and cannot be done. No government official will be supported in that. There is a normal course of action for the internal debate at the Foreign Affairs Council. That runs internally: what are the priorities? But the political priorities are set by the cabinet. It's not up to the employees, I think, to feed that. There is a coalition agreement and from the coalition agreement there is also support for Dutch companies abroad. I think the whole energy transition will shift the odds. We also notice this during the many trade missions. There is a huge demand for companies, start-ups and scale-ups that can help countries in the energy transition. I mention wind-on-the-sea activities, solar panels, access to technology. As a trade minister, I see that as no other. Shell is present in many countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u99	By now, you've arrived at the block of corona, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u100	Almost. Mrs Karimi asked why I was so optimistic about Commissioner Reynders. I am optimistic because the political tide is along and because many countries now want to support him. He's been working fast. The details may prove to be even more difficult, but there is an enormous amount of political drive behind it and it fits the agenda of this Commission. Can I promise to inform the First Chamber regularly and in time? I will, like the House of Representatives, send you a letter early January with an estimate of the timetable. I also made that commitment to the House of Representatives. Mr Backer asked about the volume of trade. The World Trade Organisation provided for a 9.2% contraction in world trade in goods by 2020, with an increase of 7.2%. But, frankly, I would like to make a deal with the new corona measures in many important economies. Then I'll move on to the cup of corona. Unfortunately, it will not surprise us that humanitarian needs will grow enormously in 2021. 235 million people will need emergency aid. That's based on the current assessment. By 2020, this figure was 170 million. Of course, new famines are expected in Yemen, South Sudan and Burkina Faso. That has everything to do, as many here have already mentioned, with the secondary effects of corona. We don't even know the primary infection rates. Many countries cannot test or do not have the health system to really know that. What we do know is that you don't have to have corona to suffer through it. This is mainly due to job losses, the economy and security. Of course, we have been looking all the time to see how we can continue to reach the SDGs. In all conversations, the Dutch cabinet is committed to a green recovery. Internationally this is called: build back better. The message is greener and poverty reduction. A comparison with Germany has been requested. I think it is very important that we have adjusted the amount. There has been no austerity. The coalition agreement has been broken open and the cabinet has once made available EUR 500 million to make a significant additional effort. As in all other cabinet periods, there are agreements on gross national product and its percentage. Normally there would have been a cut, but additional resources have gone to my budget. This is similar to what Germany has done, an economy four times the size of the Netherlands. The United Kingdom has recently cut short. We are quite proud to be at the forefront of Europe. Is that enough for me? Is that enough? If you look at the great needs, the great risks and the instability that will follow, then much more needs to be done internationally. That is why I welcome the commitment of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in particular. Two countries will suffer from debt and the Netherlands will also make a contribution. There was a question from Mrs Karimi about conflict-sensitive programming. The prevention of conflicts and stability are central elements of my policy agenda. It is implemented in the wider policy of this cabinet. So we're already doing this. A special commitment is made on SDG 16: security and the rule of law. This is actually done in all areas. So I do not see the need for a new conflict analysis. It's part of a standard way of working. We do go international with other countries to discuss how this reset can take place internationally. The Netherlands will hopefully also join the Peacebuilding Commission, the Peacebuilding Commission, of the United Nations. We can also make a special contribution there. Mrs Karimi asks if I could address the possible consequences for Europe of a collapsed neighbour due to hunger, conflict and climate change. I recognize the warning, of course. I also recognise the risks, but there is still no question of a 'collapsing Africa'. There is also resilience. We must continue to invest. We do this through aid and trade, because many of the countries, as Mr Van Ballekom also mentioned, are actually asking for more trade. The help offered is very conditional, often small-scale. We also think it is very important, but it is not the panacea for the great fight against poverty that must take place. Mr Backer asked about the situation in Ethiopia. I spoke to the Minister of Finance. Minister Blok has spoken to his counterpart. We provide humanitarian aid through unnoticed contributions. The EU is talking to Ethiopia almost daily. I share your concerns, not only for the country and the people themselves, but also for stability and the risk of greater insecurity in the horn of Africa. The cabinet's on top of it. Ethiopia has been a very important partner country for the Netherlands for years. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether current policies maintain inequality. I do not think it can provide sufficient progress, but I do not know whether Mr Van Apeldoorn meant Dutch policy, or broader international cooperation. We adhere to the international agreements. We are focusing on the major impact players, the UN, the World Bank, the IMF, but also on civil society organisations to stand up for vulnerable groups, the Ihbti community, women and girls. That is why we have opted for education and health care, but also, of course, for very important financial and political support for the social framework through a new package of agreements. This is called Power of Voices and is mainly about support for local civil society organisations, not the organisations from the north, but the local organisations from the global south. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked about the definition of extreme poverty. The border is arbitrary. If the border were five dollars, half the world's population would be victims. Can I reflect on this, he asked. It is indeed an arbitrary arrangement. It always has been. You might wonder if the definition still makes sense. There is always a need to look at what people can live on, as well as in the context of a living wage. What are the necessary expenses for a family, to get children to school and to have a real roof over their head? We are indeed looking at the multidimensional aspects of poverty and the opportunity to have or buy essential services. Mr Backer asked what COOVID-19 means for the contribution to the realisation of the SDGs. I've already mentioned Building Back Better. I really want to take this opportunity to let the organisations working with BBB look only at more inclusive and greener growth. Includes: social safety nets, cash transfers. Mr Van Ballekom has referred to this a number of times. The World Food Organisation is the ultimate expert in this, but also greener in order to green our financial response and debt financing. In the crisis, therefore, this is also a hugely important, almost historic, opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u101	Are you already at the end of your block on corona?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u103	I welcome the Minister's reply on the definition of extreme poverty and that it is arbitrary. I would like to make a brief comment on that. The background to my question was that in recent years we have heard many euphemisms about the decline in poverty. That was about extreme poverty. It was said that we are eliminating poverty. However, if you define it a little more broadly, it looks very different. The Minister is now also saying that perhaps we should go a little wider, that we should look at what a family can actually live on and that $2 90 a day might not be enough. Does this not have any consequences for how the international community should deal with it and how the World Bank should define it? And how, for example, is that laid down in the SDGs? Of course, the Minister can't change that, I understand that, but shouldn't that be an agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u104	I think it is already on the agenda in different fora. You also know better than anyone that negotiating the SDGs was an ultimate complex process. I was there myself. I believe that no one, no Member State, and let alone the SGVN, will want to open up these SDGs, even for his possible reappointment. You can build in additionality. Countries can also become leaders by saying that this SDG is the basis for us with these indicators, but we are looking at broadening and we can think about that. However, nothing is free, as you know, politically neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u105	Then I suggest we get the Minister to complete the climate block. Then we'll see if there's any more interruptions and then we'll go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u106	As you know, it was exactly five years ago last Saturday that 196 countries came together in Paris to sign the Paris Agreement. That clearly sets out the commitment. I think we should look at COP26 to see if the ambitions should not be strengthened. I am certainly in favour of that. We need more ambitious climate targets. This has already been confirmed by China, Japan, South Korea and also the United Kingdom, as hosts of the COP, and of course by the EU itself. But we have to do this with each other. In foreign trade and development cooperation policy, we are also taking steps to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, or to enable countries to meet the objectives. The greening of the financial instruments is under continuous review. I also often discuss this with my colleague Hans Vijlbrief, Secretary of State for Finance. We are no longer giving new financial support to coal and the exploration and development of new stocks of oil and gas abroad. In any case, we have stopped financing through the IMF and the World Bank at any source of fossil energy. We try to green our instruments everywhere. There were a number of comments on combating deforestation. This is indeed part of the Dutch global climate commitment. In addition to doubling funding for programmes to combat deforestation, I have reinforced diplomatic efforts. We must, of course, also get other countries to do so. We can all set up beautiful programmes, but they are ultimately small-scale if you look at national policy choices that need to be made. Recently, the Netherlands, France and a number of other countries, including Brazil, have called for the fight against deforestation and the sustainability of agricultural trade chains. A third important example is, of course, how countries emerge from the crisis. I just named all the importance of a green, including recovery. Mrs Teunissen asked in particular how I can rule out soy for Dutch animal feed contributing to further deforestation of the Amazon and, of course, the pandemic threats that might result from it. That was question one. Question two was: how does the cabinet rhyme with planting more forest with subsidies from the cabinet for biomass? The soya used in the Netherlands has been produced sustainably. I think Mrs Teunissen knows that better than anyone. You are actually talking about transit and it is not yet entirely sustainable, or insufficient. We are committed to this, including through the Amsterdam Declarations Partnership. There are a number of other activities that the Netherlands carries out in particular with development funds in order to achieve this. The partnership is for the further sustainability of imports and consumption in key European import countries. With regard to the cultivation of forests and how I rhyme with subsidies from the biomass cabinet, I understand that your Chamber is in talks with the Minister for Economic Affairs. I therefore have to refer to him further. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u108	Mr President, thank you to the Minister for his first reply. I'd like to come back to some of the answers. Firstly, that is the issue of CETA and the complaint mechanism. The Minister has made it clear that the complaint mechanism does not really change the Treaty. We knew that, and it's been confirmed again. The Minister also said that the complaint mechanism is not directly related to the ICS. However, I was disappointed in the Minister's reply when, in response to my question, she asked what her political opinion was on the interconnection of CETA and this complaint mechanism said that she could not separate that complaint mechanism from CETA. To be honest, I found that at least amazing, because I see that relationship, apart from the political relationship, not one-on-one. I would therefore like to clarify this in the second period. The Minister, of course, defended CETA in the Lower House without that complaint mechanism, so that should be possible here too. Political relationship is that the minister wants, like a majority in this Chamber, to handle CETA preferably after the elections. That is actually more of a Dutch domestic policy story and has nothing to do with the concerns that exist about CETA. Mr President, I come to the second point: imvo. I thank the Minister for the commitment. I understand that the Minister will give an appreciation of the Commission's proposal around February. So I understand that the Minister is going to share that appreciation with us. Thank you for that. Mr President, my final point concerns corona and its consequences. I have two points. The first point is that humanitarian needs are increasing. That's right. But I am surprised that the Minister would be proud of what the Netherlands is doing. Since a number of Cabinets, this 0.7% development cooperation budget has not been reached. With the 500 million she refers to, a little damage is actually limited. We are not making substantial more investments in development cooperation. So in that respect it is indeed a good thing that it has stopped for a while, but it could have been absolutely better. I think the Minister may have tried that too, I assume, but that was not possible because of, for example, the VVD. Mr President, the final point is the conflict-sensitive agenda. Could I ask the Minister to go a little deeper in the second term on all the points I have raised? That was a substantial part of my speech. The answer "we're doing it already" is really not acceptable, because the world has changed tremendously with new conflicts, strengthened conflicts and potential conflicts. That is a reason for the Netherlands to make a firmer commitment to this. Would the Minister be prepared to at least take the time at the beginning of the year to come up with a clear analysis of what this increased violence and conflict potential means for the Minister's policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her detailed reply. I think we had a good substantive debate this morning. Let me remind you of colleagues' contributions. We have talked a lot, including the Minister, about development aid on the one hand and the current world trade system on the other, and to what extent we must commit ourselves to free trade on the other. I would like to sum up Mr Van Ballekom's contribution with the words: not aid, but trade. Mr Backer said: you can criticize global value chains and globalisation, but they also depend on them, and they have partly developed with them. That's true. I'm not denying that at all. I think we should acknowledge that. Nor is my group in favour of completely breaking up these global value chains or ending world trade. Going back to some sort of autarkie is of course an illusion and not a solution, quite the contrary. But it's about, like I said, how you put that in. As I said, no matter how high the development budget, you will never eliminate inequality and poverty in the world. You also need to change structures for that. That's what I meant earlier. Take, for example, the problem of tax competition and tax avoidance. Developing countries miss more revenue from tax avoidance than they get in the form of ODA, development aid, as estimated by the IMF. The Netherlands is part of that too. The Minister asked if I meant Dutch or international policy. The answer to that is both. The Dutch government is now committed to putting an end to this, but the Netherlands is still in the picture. I have mentioned this earlier in another debate with the Secretary of State for Finance on the wrong lists of countries that contribute to tax avoidance, of which developing countries are primarily victims. Coming back to the global value chains and the globalisation of production, I note that it is a matter of fact, and the Minister acknowledges that how those value chains can contribute to broad prosperity, here and there. Unfortunately, that is not always the case. I mentioned the example of Shell's activities in Nigeria. Mr Teunissen spoke about deforestation in the Amazon region, for example, and about the Uighur forced labourers. You can mention the example of palm oil, the sweatshops in the garment industry, the cobalt mines in Congo for our Apple iPhones, et cetera. This is all part of the current global value chains and we must do something about it, because that is bad for those countries and for the people who live in those countries, despite the contribution that value chains make to prosperity. But it is also bad for us, because in this way we are going to compete with countries based on wages, working conditions, environmental standards and so on. I drew attention to that in my first term. This way does not contribute to the broad prosperity. I am pleased that the Minister acknowledges that the current world trade system is inadequate. The fact that the way in which products are made cannot be included in the system, that we cannot respond to it and that we cannot do anything about it is a shortcoming, which the Minister also acknowledges. But there is also the issue of vulnerability for ourselves, for example when it comes to the production of essential products. Then it's about our strategic dependence. The minister mentioned reshoring here. I was pleased with that, but that was very fast, so perhaps she could explain a little more in what way we are going to do this reshoring and where the Minister thinks it is necessary. I am also pleased that the Minister acknowledges that the 1.90 dollar limit for extreme poverty is arbitrary. If we were to bring that down to zero, which is not going to happen for the time being, because it is now going to rise again, the world's poverty will not be eradicated. This may also have consequences for the way we look at the SDGs. Much has already been said about CETA and the complaints mechanism. It is clear that the Minister says that this is very clear. It doesn't change CETA or ICS. This seems to me to be an important starting point for the debate when we are finally going to have it here in this House. However, one more question about the complaint mechanism, which the Minister has not yet answered. It is not clear to me what exactly happens if such a complaint is made. Then what happens to the complaint? Is it true that it is up to the European Commission to decide within what period and in what manner that complaint is being dealt with? What could be the outcome in the end? Finally, Mr President, in injury time, I would like to join what Mr Karimi said about the fact that we should really go to 0.7%. The minister says she managed to avoid a major cut in the budget. Finally, I would like to ask the following question. I also asked a question about this in the first term. I wonder whether this cash-slide actually puts a mortgage on the future and not next year, but the years after it is actually asking for a cut to make it possible for the budget not to fall now. I would like to have another reaction to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for her reply, which also shows ambition. The numbers are actually appalling: 700 million people in poverty. Then we are talking about the old definition, I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn, because if you did it differently, it would probably be much more. It is good to see in this budget that one third of our jobs depend on international trade: 180,000 companies; 2.4 million jobs. I see that trade is increasingly being brought within the framework of the SDGs. But here it's still a struggle. This was also reflected in the interruption debates with Mr Teunissen and Mr Karimi on how to implement legislation and policies in a normative, moral and political way, especially if the European commercial policy is. To what extent can you intervene in company decisions? That's tricky. What I have learned, though, is that I did not know that the Minister also calls very hands-on CEOs from companies to convey that message. I think that's very good. It is also good to convey how the feelings in politics are developing. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I welcome the insight into the notification procedure. Now I understand better how that goes. I understand I'm almost in injury time, but I still have one thing to say. That is a question which prevents an interruption by Mrs Karimi. So that's time-saving, Mr. Chairman. She said: I'm going to report on that. I understand from this that the train of this notification will call on several stations in Europe. Eventually, the train arrives at a terminal. That is what we are being told, and that is also the time for my group to discuss it. I think that perhaps we can then agree, Mrs Karimi, in the quest for an international legal order, including for companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Backer. That was time-saving again. Finally, I will go to Mrs Teunissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I'll start with her answer about the Uighurs. She pointed out to me the note "From information to obligation" on the sustainability of trade chains. Nice intentions, but in the discussion the whole time came back to the question whether the government should facilitate and encourage or make stronger rules. I have heard different sounds from different groups. In that respect, it was a nice debate. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, companies have the first interest in making profits. Shell is not in court, because Shell has taken generous responsibility for the environment in Niger. Adidas and Zara are in the news, not because they are committed to better working conditions, but because they are buying products made by enslaved Uighurs. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, it is up to the government to lay down clear rules to deal with human rights violations and environmental pollution immediately. My question to the Minister in the first term was quite clear: what instruments, what tools does the Minister now have to act in those production chains? Mr Backer also referred to it: to what extent can the Minister intervene? Maybe she can go into that a little bit more. The same applies to the feed we import from Brazil. The Minister says that the Netherlands does not contribute to deforestation with its own imports. That's just the question. We are getting signals from civil society that this is happening. These certificates have the predicate sustainability, but the question is whether they are adequately controlled. That's why it's a broader question. Does the Minister recognise that there is still much work to be done and that a stronger role of the government is needed to ensure fair and sustainable trade? A number of comments on CETA. We have heard that the complaints mechanism has entered into force. The question is what this means, but we will come back to that in the debate that hopefully will follow soon. It is clear that the complaint mechanism does not change the Treaty itself and that it only increases the false involvement of civil society in the dispute mechanism. As far as we are concerned, it is unacceptable to wait for it to be further developed, because it is separate from the Treaty itself. It also does not change the chapter on labour and the environment and the exclusion of a sanction mechanism. So it doesn't change how we can maintain sustainability and working conditions. That is why I would like to call on my colleagues to move quickly to the debate on CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Then I shall suspend the debate for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u116	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked. I will give you a brief answer. Mr Van Apeldoorn had a question about resuscitation. The committee will start a study at the beginning of next year. Then the vulnerabilities, one-sided dependencies and strategic dependencies will be identified. Then, of course, we'll look at the approach. I think that because of the urgency and political importance of making the right choices, and also with a view to economic recovery, this study will be completed relatively quickly, in the course of next year. I will inform this Chamber at some point. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked whether the cabinet would not mortgage the future. We broke open the coalition agreement, so we managed to maintain the budget. We didn't have to break any programs or contracts. It is therefore a sensible choice, also in relation to what all the other European countries have done, within the framework of the possibilities. But a mortgage on the future can indeed be avoided. The next formation will require EUR 1.5 billion. I think that some parties have the 0.7% in their programme. Then it'll be resolved very quickly. In reply to a question from Mrs Karimi, I think it is good to confirm that we are always looking at root causes of poverty and conflict. Our entire commitment, diplomatic, political and through development cooperation, is precisely aimed at preventing or mitigating its consequences. Indeed, the IMF, the World Bank, the UN and civil society organisations need to look at how deep the crisis is going to develop in many countries, which is the increase and increase of risks. I like to share this insight into the future in a letter to the First and Second Chambers. It may also be useful for a future cabinet as a possible point of reference. Mrs Karimi also had a question about the complaints mechanism. I can only say that the Chamber is about its own agenda. I think that the further development of the complaints mechanism is extremely important here. It will become part of CETA and possibly other trade agreements. We are heading from the cabinet for care and, of course, also for completeness of information. A number of further steps are needed from the cabinet. Then Mrs Teunissen asked which handles I have. As you may know from the assessments of the covenants, the cabinet has few legal instruments. The same applies to the previous cabinet. There is an expectation and a requirement to comply with the OECD Guidelines and the UN Guiding Principles on Responsible Business Conduct. But it's still voluntary. That is why we have completed this process with a view to establishing a framework that goes from informing to requiring. Until then, until that time, or at European level or at least in the Netherlands, I have the following possibilities: making a political appeal, excluding trade missions, excluding subsidies, development cooperation funds that companies sometimes use to join a market. There are a lot of practical handles, but there is almost nothing legal. That is precisely why I have drawn on a strong progressive framework for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u119	I come to the budget. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. So we're going to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u120	In any case, I would like to have the opportunity to request a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-15-eerstekamer-3.u121	You can even vote against, because Mrs Teunissen has now requested a vote. That's why I looked at you. At least we're gonna make it all the way out. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on today at the end of the sitting. We're just awaiting the Secretary of State and Secretary of Defense.
