ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on military missions in Afghanistan. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence and to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut as the applicant for this debate on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Good morning. This year, in particular in the context of 75 years of liberation, we often talk about war. And we all know for a number of years that wars are very topical because unfortunately it is not something from the past, but also from the here and now that wars mean misery for children, for young people; they mean death, violence and fleeing. War shouldn't be allowed. War means politics fails without weapons. Lying is not allowed at all, but certainly not about the war. We have been at war in Afghanistan for nineteen years, under the leadership of NATO, the United States, to which several Dutch governments are also supporting to this day. I find it very big and very shocking that now it appears that we have been constantly lied to by the allies. That is the harsh verdict on the war in Afghanistan by John Sopko, the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction. He made this statement in response to the release of the Afghanistan Papers, the hundreds of interviews with directly involved parties, especially Americans, but also other NATO partners in the war. What is particularly striking in this paper drawn from secrecy by the American newspaper, the Washington Post, is the great distance between what politicians gave to the people and what senior generals, diplomats and interviewees really thought. Beautiful, constantly repeated words about progress, the construction of the Afghan security services, the fight against corruption in Afghanistan and many other subjects were contradicted if the camera did not turn, if there were no journalists, in short, if one could be honest. Those who read the Afghanistan Papers cannot ignore the painful conclusion that the permanent war in Afghanistan has failed and is pointless. Mr. Chairman. I have, of course, asked the Minister in writing earlier to respond to the hardest conclusion of the Special Inspector that we have been constantly lied to. How is it that we have been at war on the basis of lies for 19 years, this kind of investigation comes out and gets the only response from the Foreign Minister is that it is a complex reality? I would like a response from the Minister. Last week, as I said, we are also participating in this war, which has not been told the truth here either. This is demonstrated by the post-mission assessment of the military contribution to Kunduz from 2011 to 2013. This report contains shocking findings. By manipulating statistics, for example, a much more rosy picture of the number of trained agents has been created. Agents were counted several times, certificates were handed out to cops who didn't deserve this, even cooks and cleaners were included in the statistics, and the agents who hadn't completed the training received that paper. The same applies to the literacy courses for agents. Even garbage collectors were included in the statistics. That all happened under pressure, because the war had to succeed. Our participation must also be under pressure and with great enthusiasm from the Rutte government and a number of parties, because we wanted to plant the Dutch flag in Afghanistan. We weren't looking at Afghan reality. Not only was it manipulated, information was also withheld. The Kunduz mission was accompanied by all kinds of unrealistic, downright naive conditions with which a majority of the House of Representatives and the Cabinet agreed, despite warnings from all kinds of angles. One such condition was that agents trained by the Netherlands should not be used for offensive military operations. But that post-mission assessment states that it was generally known to those involved in the Kunduz mission that Afghan agents were also deployed in offensive operations against the Taliban. And although Afghan commanders were told that this was against the agreements, it was not possible to prevent agents from being deployed on the offensive. Therefore, the Court's wish could not be met. In my view, it has never been reported to the Chamber to this day that a guarantee to the Chamber, which was issued very explicitly by the Prime Minister at the time, was violated. Manipulation of truth, deception and concealment of that truth were not just limited to the Kunduz mission; there are numerous examples. My question to the ruler is: who will take responsibility for this? Surely it is impossible for the Prime Minister to say nothing more than to deceive and lie to the Chamber: that is not good, you don't want to? Who's gonna take responsibility? Mr. Chairman. A second point is that we in the House of Representatives, knowing what the war has brought, knowing that the war in Afghanistan has failed, knowing that that war was based on lies and knowing that we have been deceived, must get all the facts out of hand. We owe this to the military, we owe it to the Afghan people, we owe it to ourselves. That is why I shall propose that a parliamentary inquiry be launched. And it can't stay there. The House of Representatives can no longer accept that it is being misled under political pressure to participate in a war. We must force more instruments to be able to control at all and to put an end to the lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. First of all, don't do any damage. This is an important medical principle and advice that doctors must always bear in mind when they have the choice between acting with uncertain results and waiting. It is also, of course, an important principle in the world of foreign policy. The key question before military intervention is: are we going to make things worse because of our presence or not? In Afghanistan, too, there's a proverb for that: don't hold a donkey that isn't yours. That means as much as: mind your own business and not those of others, because you have little knowledge of what those others really want. On the question of whether we made Afghanistan worse by our presence, as some claim, I find it difficult to weigh up. The alternative, praiseworthy history is not known. It is difficult to capture all these years in a final judgment in the form of a figure or a sentence as to whether it has resulted in what we hoped for. Afghanistan is too complex and the results are too mixed: sometimes positive, sometimes less. For me, the progress we have made in Afghanistan can be caught in two anecdotes. Firstly, a positive anecdote: children who prefer to play, who stand in line, who wait for the big kid who would put purple paint on their finger to show that they voted. In addition, there is a positive, optimistic feeling that elections and democracy are a good thing, the hope of a future generation. The other anecdote is that of a Lebanese restaurant, where Afghans and foreigners came together to really talk to each other about shared dreams and a shared future, where they talked about everything and everything and where the chocolate cake was free. But that restaurant was blown up, killing the owner, as well as all the guests who were present at the time. Those two stories are Afghanistan from now on. We have not achieved everything we hoped for, but we have not failed, certainly not. Progress was too great for that. This is due to the incredibly good work done by men and women in an incredibly difficult context. But we could do better, and that's what we need to talk about today. Maybe we should start by talking about the Afghanistan Papers. I have three questions for the cabinet. One: does the cabinet recognise the tendency of reporting that there were indeed problems with the strategy and that there was huge corruption and that this was shared within the coalition? Two: does the Cabinet feel deceived by the United States? Have any reports ever been made public that were not known afterwards or in advance? Three: what is your response to these papers? But I want to talk the longest about the lessons we can learn about the Kunduz mission. That was no longer a mission in a war; there was no war in that area. It was another mission. It was a training mission, with results. The training centre still exists. Lawyers are still active. The chain approach is celebrated. But there were also serious problems. I think the first lesson is: be honest. Mrs Karabulut also mentioned this. Be honest and do not inform the Chamber improperly, as has happened. Alphabetization rates were beaten up and the number of trained agents was beaten up. That was by pressure, by self-censorship, by the tendency to be too positive. The result is that a wrong picture has been sketched of what has been achieved there. That is a shame and it is not necessary, because the Chamber wants to be informed about what it is like, not about what it could have been like. Mr. Chairman. I recognize this myself from my brief period in Afghanistan. It also appears wider, for example from how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has dealt with research policy. More than a quarter of external researchers sometimes experienced pressure or severe pressure to deliver more political and socially desirable outcomes. Then I think to myself: can you see how many more officials depend on the leadership of the department and are therefore even more sensitive to that pressure? That's serious and bad. I'm asking this minister what he's gonna do. Because I know that he is in the same position as I am in, I ask him if he is willing to let his officials know, perhaps, in view of recent reports, it is necessary to state that their analysis of the facts is appreciated, uncensored and unfiltered, as it is, and that after that a political weighting follows. Officials, wherever and therefore at any ministry, at the Ministry of Defence and at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should be free to report what they are experiencing. I'd like a response to that proposal. Mr. Chairman. The second lesson is for the Chamber itself. We have jumped through Afghanistan, from Baghlan to Uruzgan, from Uruzgan to Kunduz and from Kunduz to MeS. That has to do with the willingness of this Chamber to sit somewhere for a long time. We should have stayed in Uruzgan, but we couldn't because some parties couldn't bear that. Because of allergic relations and because we did not want to give the Taliban a great victory, we still wanted to stay in Afghanistan. That is right, but I remember when we were yelling "no, no, no" in front of the TV in Afghanistan when red lines were drawn here in The Hague that we had to draw in the Afghan sand. I couldn't. It was not possible to carry out all these wishes. That is an important lesson for this Chamber: if we want to do this with Kalashnikovs in a country that is actually in the Middle Ages and where we are fighting against drugs while drugs are the income, then we need to be realistic about how we deal with them. Mr. Chairman. Lesson three is about how we do this. Being somewhere for six months means that we are fighting the same battle every six months, because people need to be reworked, because they don't have the contacts and because the people we worked with don't know them anymore. I was allowed to sit there for a year myself. Another year was too short, I say honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	I think you're almost ready for a round-up. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	Then Mrs Karabulut will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	Those six months have to be different. Mr. Chairman. Finally, responsibility for our own people. For years we have fought to ensure that the interpreters who have worked for us there at risk for their own souls and their members have been given the protection they deserve. It's been a long time before that was done. It's over now. I thank this cabinet for that. But I think it's an important lesson for the future. We do not abandon our people, even if they do not have Dutch nationality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Then Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	I thank Mr Sjoerdsma. What strikes me is that Mr Sjoerdsma also has no judgment on the findings in the Afghanistan Papers, namely that we have been constantly lied to, that data has been manipulated and that there is a huge gap between theory, desirability and reality. Let me go straight to the Netherlands. Mr Sjoerdsma said: if this is what we want. But the point is, and Mr Sjoerdsma knows very well, that no one wanted the Kunduz mission. There was no support in society. We just had a tricky mission, which was also wrong with everything. Politically, it was difficult. So conditions, which were very naive conditions, were set, including at the initiative of D66 and GroenLinks, to make the mission possible. How does Mr Sjoerdsma look back on that? What did he learn from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	I have reflected on this before, already in 2014 and 2015. But let me first go back to Mrs Karabulut's first comment on the Afghanistan Papers. Because I don't know if we've been lied to. Those papers don't tell me that. What these papers show is that American officials publicly said different things than they personally thought about the progress of the mission. But the question is whether this is also apparent from Dutch Parliamentary letters. To be perfectly honest, I wonder if you can blame the Dutch government for reading back all those parliamentary letters about Afghanistan, from Baghlan to Uruzgan until now. But I'll ask the Cabinet because I want to know. I ask this because the final evaluation of the IOB on Kunduz states that there has been too positive reports. This has to do with expectations imposed by this House of Representatives. I am also looking at Mrs Karabulut in that regard. Uruzgan was supposed to be a reconstruction mission, while it wasn't a reconstruction mission. That makes reports impossible to match with reality. That's why diplomats, defense officers and military have to sell things in a way that doesn't match what happened there in that county. This interaction between Chamber and Cabinet has to be different. It has also changed over the past few years. We've learned those lessons. I am convinced of that when I look at how we are shaping the Article 100 process here. But that does not mean that I will not do so in future, unlike Mrs Karabulut, whose party never supports military interventions and who always makes the assessment that our presence is more harmful than anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	This last one is a real shame. In addition to the fact that I believe that you may be a little more modest if you yourself have worked on impossible conditions to push the mission through politically because of all kinds of interests other than purely the interests of the military and Afghans, I would expect a little more self-criticism and reflection from D66 and Mr Sjoerdsma. Let me make the question even more specific. The post mission investigation on Kunduz states that interviews with stakeholders in parts of the mission revealed that it was generally known that Afghan agents were also deployed in offensive operations against the Taliban or other armed groups. While it was GroenLinks and D66 who, on the initiative of those parties, had agreed with the Prime Minister that he would give a firm guarantee that he would personally guarantee that this would not happen. We were never informed about this. We've been lied to about this, it turns out. What's your verdict on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	I said it a few years ago and I say it again: the Chamber must not draw red lines that cannot be fulfilled in reality. I just don't have to. That is not sensible; that is not feasible and it puts people in an impossible position. But I will also take you to the situation of that time. When the Netherlands suddenly left Uruzgan, because a certain party could not carry it anymore. When the Taliban was already in the gallery applauding for the huge victory they were going to make on the coalition, because one of the important supporting countries, namely the Netherlands, would leave RC South. What a public relations victory that would have been at a crucial moment in Afghanistan's history. And that my party and other parties there felt the responsibility to say: but we must continue to make our contribution; we do not run away from it; we are not going to give that victory to the Taliban. I'll never run away from that, Mrs. Karabulut. Never, never, never, never. And I'm telling you that because the endorsement you're talking about was definitely there for that mission. That is very often for missions, but that is only when politicians dare to stand for it, when politicians dare to be honest about what we are going to do on the ground, what we hope to achieve, but also about how difficult it is to achieve some things there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	That honesty was not there to make it politically possible for this military mission to take place, because, as your former leader Pechtold said, a flag from the Netherlands had to be planted in Afghanistan. So the Afghan reality was ignored. Political reality was forced upon us. There's been a lie. I find it astonishing that Mr Sjoerdsma does not give any judgment on this. In fact, what does he say when I tell him the Prime Minister's firm promise when I ask him what political conclusion he draws from this? Should the Prime Minister at least come to the House of Representatives to apologize to us, or should you let him get away with this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	Madam President, perhaps Mrs Karabulut did not hear me or would like to make her point again from her own term, but I have made it clear that this Chamber has been misinformed. That's right. There have been reports that are wrong, about the literacy course, about how many agents have been trained, about what the Rule of Law program has resulted in. That's right. But Mrs Karabulut calls this a military mission, while it was a civilian police training mission. Mrs Karabulut has not said a word about the fact that some of the results are still there. I call it the training center. I mention the quality of the courses. I call the presence of lawyers. Mrs Karabulut makes no mention of the fact that the progress that has been made has been largely lost because of the increase in the Taliban. And let us be honest: that is not our responsibility and we cannot do much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first victim of a war is the truth, as is often said. But if you remember your own parliament, and with it your own inhabitants, that truth, it is at the heart of our parliamentary democracy. It is the task of a parliament, of us as a parliament, for example, to control the government. To do that, at least you need to know what's happening, you need to get information on time, complete and correct. If this is not the case, Parliament's confidence in government and people in politics will fall. That is not only bad; it is also harmful. It is the third time in a short time that we are standing here with the Minister of Defence, and that is serious. However, I think it is even more serious that insufficient information of the Chamber does not seem to be limited to times of war, so to speak, or to Defence alone. Justice and security seem to have a hand with it. The State Department seems to be guilty of this sometimes. And the letter sent to the Prime Minister by the President of our Chamber last week shows that the problem is even greater. That can't be true, you'd think, but it's the truth. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. The pieces show that it already went wrong in the run-up to Kunduz. The focus was, we read, not on what the mission could contribute to improving the situation in Afghanistan, but above all on what it could contribute to the image of the Netherlands in the world and how you could get sufficient support for this. Don't get me wrong; the search for support is logical, especially on a mission in which we send Dutch men and women to dangerous areas. You prefer to do so with as much support as possible. But if the search for acceptance leads to commitments that make the feasibility of a mission more difficult, then you ask for problems. That's what happened. That was actually clear back then. How's the cabinet gonna change that? How do the two rulers look back on that? Mr. Chairman. The assessment of the information provision is hard. The mission management.I read "misdirection" the first time in The Hague and Kunduz wanted to create as favourable a picture as possible in the media and in the House of Representatives, that's what it's called. And "those involved within all parts of the mission experienced pressure to paint a positive picture in reports, even though this did not match reality." Within all parts, that's quite something. The cabinet itself mentions the organizational culture, for example in the Ministry of Defence, as one of its main causes. I recognize that. I've never talked about culture as often as I've talked about it since I became the Secretary of Defense. There is a culture of not dicking but brushing, of "can do," of not wanting or being able to say no, but also of things more beautiful than they are: green instead of red. The General Court pointed out in its report on Mali: Defence must be honest, even if things cannot be done. And, which is also true: politics must want to hear that. How's the cabinet gonna make that happen? From now on, "the importance of transparent reporting will be carefully considered. In doing so, employees will be reminded of the channels available (...) if someone does not feel heard'. But if culture is the problem, pointing people at the existence of a trusted person is really not going to make the difference. That is certainly not the case with an organisation that has been established before that when it comes to making a career, opening your mouth might be the worst thing you can do. That was true, that is true, and it will remain so for the time being. That is precisely why it is regrettable that the cabinet does not adopt the most striking recommendation. And that's to get independent people, outside, to do the evaluation of missions. I ask the directors not to reconsider the adoption of that recommendation. Transparency is supposed to make people look inside from the outside, that's not what you're afraid of. And I know that there is a problem with that, as was the case when an independent reporter at the Department of Defense was proposed to deal with complaints. It is always said that the organisation itself should be able to do so, as a learning organisation. But learning that, that's how practice learns, doesn't happen enough, and it takes too long. I also ask directors, like Mrs Karabulut, to consider a possible greater role of the Chamber in the process, or to provide the Chamber with resources to be able to sit closer to that information, so that we can rely on it, because that is crucial. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I refer to the United States, which is the reason for this debate and often leads international missions. How do the rulers intend to prevent the truth from being the first victim in the relationship with us? Can that be prevented, and if not, what does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kerstens also started it: in times of war the truth is the first victim. It's a statement from 1917; I looked it up again. An American senator said that more than 100 years ago. It's almost a cliché, but apparently it's also a law. The US Inspector General's report, which found that the US population has systematically been presented with a rosy picture of the war in Afghanistan, is the reason for this debate today. But it turns out that the same thing happened in the Netherlands, around the Kunduz mission. However, recent debates in this Chamber indicate a pattern rather than an incident. If the report from the OVV shows that our soldiers in Mali had to work with unsuitable equipment, then such a report will remain in a desk drawer for months before it goes to the Chamber. If the moderate opposition in Syria, which received Dutch support, turns out to be less moderate than we thought, then Nieuwsuur and Trouw must be used to make that information available. And when more than 70 civilian deaths occurred in Hawija in 2015, it took four years for Parliament, this Parliament, to be informed about this. Mr. Chairman. Now that we look back on the Kunduzmission, it turns out that for years our image has been too rosy, not by accident, but deliberately, deliberately. This is how the IOB evaluation states. Employees experienced pressure to report good progress, even though this was not in line with reality. The cabinet calls the facts serious, but the reaction of the rulers raises many questions with my group. There was a lot of experience, writes the cabinet. And, there was perceived collective pressure. Was he experienced? Or was that perceived? Could that mean it was felt that way, but it wasn't? Is that what we're talking about? And what is collective group pressure? What am I supposed to do with that? Who put that pressure on you, anyway? Were those the commanders on the scene? Was that the department in The Hague? Was it the political leadership? Mr. Chairman. Apparently, there were also people calling the bell and saying that the information provided to Parliament was not correct, but their complaints were not taken seriously. Did the Minister know about this? Did the rulers ever feel that the information was being proposed too positively, or did they have no idea? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The mission to Kunduz has had a retrospective image of being a product of the drawing board, in particular because of the need for sufficient political support from The Hague than from the reality of Afghanistan. In order to obtain a majority, the cabinet made commitments that made the mission more difficult to implement, the IOB states. I think that's a good conclusion. The IOB had 33 conditions imposed on the mission by the Chamber. I must admit that a large part of these conditions came from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. 33 is a lot. It is easy to see that this has hindered the implementation of the mission too much. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of comments to make on this. Not all the conditions the Chamber made were wrong. Not all conditions could be established in advance that they would not be properly enforceable. And as far as the undesirableness of a requirement could be determined in advance, it was, of course, also the responsibility of the Cabinet, also of the Chamber, but also of the Cabinet; I believe that Mr Sjoerdsma called that the interaction between the Cabinet and the Chamber to point this out to the Chamber, even if there was a risk that there would then be no majority in the Chamber for such a mission. I do not therefore agree with the conclusion that a high degree of political participation, as the cabinet calls it, is by definition undesirable, even if it limits the military implementation of the mission. The whole idea of the Article 100 procedure is that politics can make demands on a military mission. I'd like to keep it that way. It requires, of course, realism on the part of the parties in the Chamber, and of the cabinet, that it constantly monitor the feasibility of what the Chamber is asking for. Apparently, that didn't happen. It seems to me purely to hold the cabinet responsible for that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, what lessons do we draw now? Firstly, the mandate must always be flexible and adaptable, just when reality demands it on the ground, provided that it is done in consultation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u23	I very much agree with Mr Van Ojik that, contrary to what D66 says, we cannot just blame the Chamber, but that the government is responsible for the correct and complete information of the Chamber. One of the most important commitments to the then group chairman, Mrs Sap, which the Prime Minister often went to drink coffee with in order to enable this mission, was that the trained agents would not be deployed offensively. I quote the Prime Minister: "Yes, I personally guarantee that. I'm Prime Minister. This is a mission that I want and of which my colleagues have also said: we want it. I hope that a majority in the Chamber will also say that we are prepared to support it. I'll vouch for it. I guarantee the agreements we have made..." et cetera, et cetera. He would inform the Chamber, but last week's post mission assessment showed that these agreements were broken, that the Chamber was not informed, and even more so that the Chamber was misinformed. What is your conclusion, what is your political judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u24	Of course, that should have happened. If anything is made clear from this post mission assessment, I have also mentioned other examples that make it increasingly clear lately, it is that the Cabinet always has a duty to inform the Chamber at times when things do not work out as you had imagined them; that can happen. I was not in the Chamber myself at the time, but I found the demand or the condition that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance made that it should be defensive rather than offensive. If, in practice, this distinction does not work at all, it is, of course, primarily up to the cabinet, in this case to the Prime Minister, who made a personal promise, to say to the Chamber: you did demand it and I took it over, but I cannot live up to that promise. Of course, I'd almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u25	I'm glad to hear that. Mr Van Ojik began his introduction by saying that the truth is the first to die in a war, but it is a pattern. It is a pattern that we, as Chambers, are not properly informed about all kinds of other matters, but certainly not about this issue. It is very important that we are properly informed, because it is about war, peace and participation in missions. Soldiers have been killed, not only from the Netherlands but also from other countries. Billions have been stabbed in a country that is currently completely unsafe. There are several points where we have been de-informed. At this point, it's just a lie. What would you ask of the Prime Minister and this cabinet? How should they assume their responsibilities according to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u26	Following what Mrs Karabulut is saying, I have mentioned a number of examples. It's not just about Kunduz. There's a pattern rather than an incident. I think that's very bad. I think it is all the more bad because my group has supported almost all these missions with conviction, often after a difficult and sometimes difficult balance, and we often disagree on this, unlike, for example, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. But, of course, it comes with the fact that as a House of Representatives, you should be well informed at the moment when things that you have asked the cabinet, or those other groups from the Chamber, cannot be realized. If that does not happen, it is extremely undesirable. I hope that this debate will produce a proposal for this in my remaining one minute and three seconds, which we will be able to avoid in the future, by making better arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u27	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u28	But this was a tough guarantee in the direction of GroenLinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u30	...that in my view, there was indeed naive conditions attached to it. But you are right: that was naive, but it was carried by a political majority to enable the mission and it turns out to be completely different in practice. But we've been lied to. So once again, again, my question is: what does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance ask the Prime Minister? Should he apologize? Does he have to come to the Chamber to talk about this? 'Cause these are bullshit lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u31	I have already said that it is unacceptable that these kinds of lies, these kinds of untruths from the cabinet have been communicated to the Chamber. As I have just said, I will make a proposal on how I think this should be avoided in the future. That is all I can offer Mrs Karabulut at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u32	Proceed, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr President, in conclusion, I had come to a number of lessons. Firstly, the mandate must always be flexible and adaptable when reality demands it on the ground, provided that it is done in consultation with the Chamber. That is also an important point from Mrs Karabulut. Addressing causes instead of fighting symptoms. That's also what I learned from that IOB evaluation. Let local conditions be guiding instead of the reality of The Hague. I'd rather do few missions and stay longer than do much and short. Finally, and then I come to the point that I would like to see differently: improve monitoring and evaluation. I learned from the time that I was allowed to give official guidance to that beautiful institution of inspection that you can evaluate at several times. You can evaluate afterwards, as has been rightfully done now, but you can also do so in advance, so that you can achieve your goal before you start looking at what you are going to do. And you can also evaluate in real time, so during the mission, so that you can immediately and not only afterwards see if something goes wrong and then you can intervene immediately. Is the cabinet prepared to have missions evaluated in this way in the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u34	I still have a question for Mr Van Ojik. I would also like to make a small point about Mrs Karabulut because she described it here as if I were speaking only to the Chamber, which of course is not the case. Most of my criticism was about the cabinet, but I do believe that the Chamber should look at itself. Perhaps it would be better to summarize me from now on. To Mr Van Ojik I have the question what GroenLinks would do differently with this knowledge. What else would GroenLinks have done in setting up this mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u35	I think you should say afterwards that you could have known in advance that this was not very realistic in the Afghan context with regard to certain conditions that GroenLinks set for approval of the mission at the time. I mention, for example, the cop tracking system that was intended to prevent trained agents from being deployed outside Kunduz. If you look at that now, eight years later, you might think: that was perhaps one of those conditions that you could have known in advance that this might not have been very realistic in the Afghan context. That's an example. What I have learned from it and what my party has learned from it, I think, is not that you should not interfere with it, so I would find it very undesirable if that were the outcome of this debate, but that as parties in this Chamber you have a responsibility to give the people on the ground space to give the local context the necessary attention etc. et cetera, et cetera. But that's what you change in a debate. When the cabinet says, as happened in 2011, "ask and we will do it, otherwise we will not get a majority in this Chamber," such a mission will be put on the wrong track from the start or at a disadvantage. And that must never happen again. That is why I have also said that in my view, and I think it is up to the cabinet to say to the Chamber: what you are asking for now is really impossible to do in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u36	I thank Mr Van Ojik for his explanation, but he does raise a question for me. Do I actually hear him say that GroenLinks should not have supported that Kunduz mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u37	No, you can't hear me say that. I realize that there may well be, that word'maybe' I can leave out that many people in my party would answer that question positively and would say: yes, we should never have supported that mission. I'm not from that school. I believe that it was Mr Sjoerdsma who also pointed out in his speech that this highly critical IOB evaluation drew a number of carefully positive conclusions on what the mission has achieved for the level of training and professionalisation of the Afghan police force, for the role of women in both the police and the judicial chain and for the quality of the judicial chain. If I were facing the same choice right now, I might be setting fewer conditions. I have just said this in response to Mr Sjoerdsma's questions. But I wouldn't come to another conclusion about the mission. Also with what I know now, with all the relativization, with what happened afterwards and knowing how difficult it is to keep results, I would have done the same thing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u38	Brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u39	This surprises me, this really surprises me. Looking at the situation in Afghanistan overall, not because of that straw or from wishful thinking. The reality in Afghanistan is that 1,000 billion have been pumped into the war and 133 billion have been spent on reconstruction. There is a lie, the corruption is rampant, it is super insecure, the Taliban rule, more Afghans were killed last year compared to another period, and not just by the Taliban. And you're saying I would have done it the same way again? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u40	Yeah, how is that possible? This is possible because the mission we are now discussing specifically, which GroenLinks said yes to at the time, unlike, for example, the Labour Party and the SP, was a mission that had two objectives: strengthening the chain of law, justice, and training of the Afghan police. Those were the two goals of what later became the Kunduz mission. Now we are eight or nine years ahead and a frank, good, critical evaluation is being carried out. It says that in the end there is a positive balance in both areas, although much less positive than we had hoped because all the things that Mrs Karabulut has just mentioned have happened, but a positive balance. And then Mrs Karabulut is very surprised that I say that if I had to choose now, I would do the same. I'm okay with the Afghan police being trained. I think it's a good thing that women have more access to justice. I think it's good that more lawyers have been trained. Why would I say that I'm suddenly not for that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u41	Because the military mission has completely failed! Because the same evaluation shows that we have been lied to, that we have been deceived, that the training mission that GroenLinks wanted became a fight mission! That's why! How can GroenLinks, how can Mr Van Ojik, whom I am very high up, say: okay, there is a lie, but we just move on and I would do it again? I'm really stunned!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u42	You made that clear, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u43	That was not necessarily what I intended to do, to bewilder Mrs Karabulut. I really think Mrs Karabulut is confusing two things. I deeply regret the fact that this mission has been lied to the Chamber. I have just called that unacceptable in response to questions from Mrs Karabulut. But that does not mean that I myself or that my group afterwards, after eight years...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u44	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u45	I said that, Mr President, but I repeat it again because I am trying to take Mrs Karabulut's bewilderment a little away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u46	That didn't quite work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u47	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u48	That didn't work out, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u49	You don't know that, she's coming...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u50	I expressed myself somewhat imprecisely, Mr. Chairman. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly pointed that out to me. Kunduz has become a fighting mission, but during the police training mission in Uruzgan, unlike the firm guarantee, the GroenLinks Group did indeed participate in offensive combat. And those results didn't work out. And indeed, Mr President, I am stunned because I know from Mr Van Ojik that he also knows the facts and that he is also someone who would normally never accept lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u51	You said that, Mrs Karabulut. Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. You're gonna have to do it with that. Mr Van Helvert is already standing by. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Our men and women from the Defense Department put out a top performance in Kunduz at the time, a top achievement. The mission they had to do, they did a great job. My predecessor, Knops, described it this way: they were very, very good actors in a very bad B-film. And that bad B-film was created here in The Hague by the interplay of the Chamber with the cabinet. Despite the many detailed limitations requested by the Court through commitments, they have achieved very visible and lasting results. That's what the IOB report says. The Dutch effort is still visible. The police school that has shaped the Netherlands is still functioning. I tell you, the circumstances in Kunduz are different than here, in this beautiful room with those blue chairs, where messengers bring us coffee when we ask. That's where the police school works. The same curriculum as that set up by the Netherlands is still available. For example, the independent report gives many examples of cases that have gone well. The report is also very clear about transparency: report both positive and negative issues transparently. That did not happen when it comes to the number of trained Afghans and that is not good. I am also very pleased that our Prime Minister immediately acknowledged that. He doesn't want this. This can't happen. The CDA believes that professional optimism, which is always necessary when you work in these countries, is necessary, as the circumstances are different from those here in this beautiful and secure Chamber of Commerce, should never give rise to pressure on employees to report more positively than necessary. In addition, the report also holds a mirror for us as a room. The detailed way in which we asked the cabinet for commitments from this beautiful Chamber about the heavy work in Afghanistan has ultimately made the mission very difficult. I agree with Mr Van Ojik, who himself was very open and transparent about this. That's a responsibility of all of us. That is a responsibility of the party asking for commitments. That is a responsibility of the cabinet that makes commitments. And that is also a responsibility to those who, despite all these commitments, say: let's do it. So it's a responsibility of all of us. That is why it is very good that my predecessor Knops, whom I quote again, asked for an independent ex post evaluation. That is what the Chamber itself asked, not to slaughter each other afterwards, to abandon a mission at the ankles, but to learn from it. That's the most important thing. I think the IOB report makes wonderful recommendations about this. On the one hand, they recommend a lot of things and say of them: carry on like that. In other words, you are doing well. But there is also one very clear thing that they say: it should be better next time. That's the transparent information. It's good to say it's about something that happened five years ago. In the meantime, we have seen that Defence has put in a line of greater transparency. The desire to communicate better with the Chamber, to communicate better with citizens and also to communicate better with the people themselves. That line is clearly deployed. As a result, we have had very spicy debates here, thanks to this new way of transparency. This new path of transparency that Defence has taken has proved to be not only very necessary, but also the right one. But it is good to realise that we are talking about transparency which was not applied five years ago, which was established at the request of the Chamber by means of an independent inquiry and which is now promised by the Cabinet. That is a positive development. We must support them as a chamber. We need to be more transparent in that, to learn from it and not to slaughter each other. Madam President. When it comes to the top performance of our women and men in the defence sector, we can see that the overall mission to which they contributed in Afghanistan in 2020 is much better than in 2001. In 2001, it was still completely in the hands of extremists and terrorists and had to be built up from scratch. That is no longer the case. Everything's perfect? No. Mrs Karabulut has just memorized the figures on what goes wrong in the country. They're all right. It's not as nice there as it is here in the Netherlands. But if we compare the case law with the case law in 2001, if we compare the situation of women with that of 2001 and if we see that girls can go to school now, then it has improved. I'm gonna let us name all the wrong things in the Chamber, anytime, because that's what we're here for. But that must be related to the starting point. The starting point was 2001. I also expect the SP to recognise that progress has been made, despite the very difficult situation that is still going on in Afghanistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u53	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u54	I wondered what the CDA group has learned from all this. Mr Van Helvert too, together with us, is clearly looking for all the answers and all the facts. Does he support the idea that, within the framework of responsibility, we as a parliament are going to investigate the whole war? Let us examine all the fine achievements that Mr Van Helvert has mentioned, but also the lies that have been told over the years and which the CDA Group seems to be ignoring now, so that we can then look forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u55	It was precisely the CDA that asked for an independent ex post investigation. That's what we got. That research says a number of things, which I'm going to divide into three parts. One. Our men and women have done a great job there. Two. There must be transparent communication about good and bad things. Three. The Chamber must also look at its own functioning in these areas. That's what the report says. The SP looks for what went wrong in that and says: hey, something went pretty wrong. By the way, everyone in this Chamber recognizes that, the Prime Minister is the first. So it's not the SP that has a patent on being angry about things that went wrong. That's what we're all mad about here. But the SP is the only party that says: we're going to investigate that again to call it names. I would say that we have already taken that step. As a chamber, we asked for an investigation of our own. This study shows that, in addition to many good things, transparency has gone wrong and raises the question of how we are going to solve it. I'd rather bet on learning that mistake, which we all acknowledge. The SP doesn't have the patent in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u56	Short, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u57	I find it truly astonishing that you want to ignore the harsh conclusions in the post-mission assessment, for which I commend your former colleague Knops, that we have been lied to and misled. My group does not want to ignore this. That says something about you rather than me. Two. We have been supporting a war there for 19 years, which now appears to be based on lies. The events in this report are not the only ones. We have also been misinformed about Uruzgan in several ways. I have the next question to Mr Van Helvert, to which I can expect a serious answer. Mr Van Helvert is wearing big pants here that the Chamber should look at itself. If I then ask you to examine this whole period in order to establish exactly what you are asking me to confirm, you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u58	The question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u59	...with a grotesque answer and you will point to me. Then why don't you support that? Or are you afraid of the truth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u60	The CDA Group was the group that proposed to evolve independently afterwards, to see what went well and what went wrong. How can the SP ask the CDA group if we don't want to know the truth? We made our own proposal to investigate that truth! Three things came out of that investigation. One. Our women and men have set a top performance in Kunduz, a top performance with many examples. In the independent investigation there were even recommendations to continue with it. Two. We must communicate transparently, even if there is bad news to report. And that's not good. Prime Minister Rutte was the first to say: we don't want this, this is wrong. So the cabinet acknowledges that and so far every speaker in this Chamber agrees. So the SP doesn't have the patent to find something bad. The third point was that the Chamber should also look at itself. I have put forward all three points in my contribution with equal value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u61	For a moment I thought: I hope Mr Van Helvert is not going to yell at me too. But I just have a question for him. The CDA Group just gave up on the new wind blowing through the Defense Department when it comes to transparency. What are you saying to your partymates in Zeeland, who have had to read from the newspaper that the Marines' barracks might not be there? What do you say to your fellow party members in Friesland who had to read in a very thick report that perhaps an old low-fly route for the F-35 again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u62	Stick to the subject, Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u63	... getting out of the mothballs? My question is: if Mr Helvert gives such a high regard for transparency, what does he think of these examples? They're not exactly transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u64	The question is asked to me. I would like to state what I have already said very clearly about this. With the CDA Zeeland, with the inhabitants of Zeeland and also with the marines, the CDA is very indignant about the way things are going around the barracks. A decision was taken in 2012 and it has not yet been achieved. A letter has come out about cabinet struggles, while we actually hire the cabinet to make decisions, and that hasn't happened yet. The unrest and the situation created by the cabinet itself must also be resolved by the cabinet itself, with Zeeland. That is what we have said about it. When it comes to Friesland, I think we had a joint debate yesterday. I've been pretty clear there, too, with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u65	Then we're not gonna repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u66	It's being asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u67	And Mr. Kerstens was there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u68	I have said that this way of communicating is very bad. By the way, the Ministry recognizes that, too. That may not help you at all now as Friesland and Zeeland, but the fact that it is recognized is new. The follow-up is necessary. I fully agree with Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u69	I was just trying to show that this transparency is not so bad and that there is something to improve. A second question concerns another point by Mr Van Helvert, on which he quoted his predecessor Knops a few times, namely that the CDA asked for an independent final evaluation. I find it striking that those who have carried out the final evaluation I have also pointed out in my speech that one very clear recommendation should be made. That is: have that final evaluation carried out by independent people, by people from outside the organisation. What does the CDA say to that recommendation, if it thinks that independence is so important and the people who have done the evaluation now say: we are not really independent enough; let people do it on the outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u70	First of all about the fact that it is not that transparent. I would like to say a few words about this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u71	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u72	The moment you say "we're gonna do it differently and we're gonna communicate transparently, even if there's bad news," you're gonna have to communicate some things that have stayed on the pile. This gives you some nasty debates and bad situations. The fact that more is reported and more openness does not mean that things are getting worse. It's a sign that at least we want to talk about it. That doesn't make it any prettier. It is still very bad, but in the context of transparency it is good that we can talk about it at all. Maybe it wasn't a few years ago. But that doesn't make it any prettier, I totally agree with you. I think it is a good development that is being discussed. When it comes to the investigation, here's the thing. I consider the IOB to be independent, but I would also like to ask the Cabinet with Mr Kerstens: how do you see this recommendation and are you prepared, and do you also see an opportunity, to have a better body look at it? On the other hand, I have no reason to doubt the objectivity of the IOB. So I would like to put the question back to Mr Kerstens:...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u73	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u74	...do you have reason to doubt the independence of the IOB? I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u75	I just want to say that I have no reason to. I would just point out that these people themselves recommend that others do it in the future, because they can and want to do it more independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u76	That is why my question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u77	Then you've made this clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u78	Same thing. It is not just about the degree of independence of the evaluation, because that is a good thing with the IOB, I happen to know from my own experience. It's also about when you evaluate. Now, after five years, that evaluation has taught us a number of things that we might have known during the mission. Then we could have done something about it. Now we can say: we are drawing lessons for future missions. But then we could have learned lessons for this mission. This means that you are already watching independently during the mission, for example from the IOB. Would that be an idea the CDA feels for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u79	That recommendation was clearly also made by the IOB. The cabinet replied: well, we have used this new form of transparency and we believe that our own people should be able to do the same. That's what the Cabinet writes in a letter. We also want to evaluate in the mid-term, but with our own people, as we actually do now, in science, we let the Cabinet know that we are not sitting like we were five years ago, but with a new wind, as Mr Kerstens called it, of transparency. Then there is the possibility in the organisation to report bad news too, because that is very important. The cabinet also says: we understand the desire to do so through the IOB, but we do not see it as a matter of obligation to bring independent people into all missions who are going to evaluate. We have been together in Afghanistan and we have seen how difficult it is for the Defense Department to keep people who visit there, as we did, to guide, to keep them safe and so on, and so on. Well, that's good sometimes, because it's good that the Chamber knows what we're doing there. It is something else to put in the standard that every dangerous mission must include and accompany IOB people, and to impose it immediately. Then I would prefer to have a reaction to that in addition to the letter from the cabinet. Otherwise, perhaps from the Chamber, I will ask again for a commitment from the Ministry leading to the interference of another mission. I would also like to ask my colleagues in the Chamber for the following back. How do we see it that the Ministry itself says: we want our trusted people to have the power and get into the organization to report bad news as well? Let us shape this mid-term evaluation by our trusted people and let us evaluate everything afterwards, as the Knops motion asked, by an independent body. If something has not been properly evaluated in the meantime, it will come back afterwards. And yes, we do have a situation that we're not happy with, because then it's just a second time in a row. And that's not good at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u80	I would like to avoid the latter. I would like this debate to produce: what happened around this Kunduz mission, we do not want to allow ourselves as a parliament to happen again. The question is how best to do that. Now Mr Van Helvert says: the cabinet does not really like having people look independently during such a mission, whether it is the IOB or any other agency. I am also curious to hear what the cabinet has to say about this. But I think it is very important that we say from the Chamber that it did not go well in the past. I have pointed out in my contribution that, unfortunately, Kunduz is not as exceptional in that sense as we might wish. There are quite a few examples. Let us therefore say as a Chamber: we very much appreciate this kind of independent evaluation, but if they come after five years, then it is a bit of a pity for the mission that is being looked back at. I would ask Mr Van Helvert to think again. We'll both listen carefully to what the Cabinet says about that. But just when he is so proud of what his colleague Knops asked then, I would say: let us learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u81	I understand very well what Mr Van Ojik is saying. It is very good to evaluate independently. However, since I took up the cabinet response and did not want to ask for a commitment in this debate that would make another mission more difficult, I would first like to hear what the cabinet thinks about it. Because the cabinet itself does not say in the letter that it does not want to evaluate in the interim; that is not what the cabinet says. The cabinet only says that the question is whether it is wise to go on dangerous missions to secure and guide independent people, so that they can evaluate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u82	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u83	Is that the commitment we demand from our army in difficult moments? I say then: let us do the mid-term evaluation by the people themselves and afterwards be independent. But I do agree with Mr Van Ojik that this should be explained by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u84	A quick question. One of the core findings of the IOB is that officials apparently felt the pressure to report positively. The cabinet has said something about how to do this with regard to missions from now on. But we must also note that this goes wider. I would like to mention the way in which researchers experience pressure from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely Justice and Security where this happens. Does Mr Van Helvert agree with me that the political leadership of the cabinet should once again make it very clear to all government officials...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u85	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u86	... that they are free to report on the facts as they see them themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u87	Well, I kind of like that one. I think that this debate is a good opportunity for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u89	Because if, as she said, the Minister of Defence is clearly in favour of greater transparency and openness in his own organisation, then this debate is the stage, also for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u91	Anyone who is asked for an evaluation and advice is free to give it on the basis of the truth. I would like to add this opportunity to the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to receive information, as factually as possible. In fact, I have a constitutional right to that information. And the information I'm receiving must be correct. Because on that basis, I base my further actions. The sending of troops is one of the most important decisions we can support as a Chamber. As a Chamber, as a political group, but also as individual Members of Parliament, we deal very seriously with this. We get an article 100 letter, we hold technical briefings, we hold written questions rounds and we hold a general consultation, often closed with a third-term plenary round. In short, this is serious and we take this very seriously. When the troops finally go on a mission, we as a Chamber have the idea that we have done everything we can to get this process to a close. In any case, I have the feeling that I can also take full responsibility as a Member of Parliament. The Chamber receives regular feedback on the progress of missions and additional details. That, too, is a component which the Chamber considers to be of great importance. Are our men and women able to do what the Cabinet has decided, with the agreement of this Chamber, to do on a mission? I also expect reports to be as factual as possible. What's the status? What's going well, but what's not going so well? Because things don't go well, there's almost no other way. If the Netherlands doesn't even get the roads on Sint-Eustatius well organized, then don't explain to me that everything we do in Mali, Afghanistan, Iraq and any other mission area is suddenly a success. It just can't be. And let me be clear: it is no shame. Because if things do not go well or even possibly fail in the mission area then that is a political failure and not a military failure. Then we, as politicians, did not provide the military on broadcast with enough equipment, people, time or a combination of it. But then it is important that we in the Chamber get that feedback, because then we in the Chamber can make the choices that are important to make the mission a success or rather to make it a success. It is regrettable that we are now focusing on issues which have not been succeeded or which have been proposed too brightly, because there have been real successes. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. For example, the research report talks about the Regional Police Training Centre near Kunduz City. It's still working! More or less the same curriculum is used as in the period 2011-2013, supplemented by additional weapons training. There is also a mobile training team inspired by the Dutch Police Operational Mentoring and Liaison Teams. Mr. Chairman. Afghanistan is also better off than in 2001. In 2001, there was a total gender apartheid in Afghanistan, now 21% of all employees in the public sector are women and 27% of all parliamentarians are women. We should be proud of that, but especially of those who have worked for it, starting with the military who have been on the air, but also with all those people in ministries and diplomats who have participated in those missions. Then making reports more rosy does not help to improve the work of the military on broadcast. No one has been helped by the more rosy representation of reality, not politics, not society and certainly not the military. If you want to celebrate success, you have to face your shortcomings. I also want to hold a mirror to myself and my fellow roommates, just as many people here in the Chamber want it to be. What are we asking of this soldier? What demands do we make on missions to create political support for ourselves? What key words or totem poles are we looking for as politicians to justify a mission to our supporters? For example, the post-mission assessment of the independent inspection service concluded that "When political support was lacking in the Lower House, the cabinet made commitments which made the feasibility of the mission more difficult and did not respond to the needs of Afghans and international allies." Here the research concludes that we were primarily concerned with fulfilling our own needs instead of those of the Afghans. The cabinet reacts with the fact that there has been a search for connection, but within the framework established by the Lower House. This may be good for political support in the Chamber, but it is not good for the implementation of the mission. For the sake of clarity, the ultimate responsibility lies with those who agree. And I have done so personally, together with my entire group, so. That put the pressure on the execution so high that perhaps that was the very reason why the report was rosy. Therefore, in the policy responses, ministers say: "People involved in the reports felt the pressure to present positive results. The perceived collective group pressure among the staff involved in the mission in order to maintain the support for the mission was, among other things, a debt to this effect. Organisational culture was also a factor. It now appears, therefore, that at different levels and in different departments there was insufficient space and attention to report the negative and positive aspects of the mission results in a balanced way." Mr. Chairman. It is good to read that ministers consider this to be a very serious conclusion. It is also a good thing that the ministers are going to do something about it. It is only the feeling that one can report safely, both within the departments and to the Chamber. I will read the reports with even more care, reports that I simply expect to be written with openness and transparency in mind. The Court simply has the right, a constitutional right, to information, to the right information and to uncolored information. Only then can I, as a Member of Parliament, take real responsibility for the decisions I make, otherwise this responsibility will be for the ministers concerned. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I shall now give the floor to Mr... a brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u95	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Mr Bosman is right to say that this is about the provision of information to the Chamber. There are results, but we've just been lied to. In the end, Mr Bosman's group also agreed. That's what he said. Wasn't that awfully naive? Was that the basis of the wish that we should be able to say yes to NATO and the Americans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u96	Before I answer the question, I would like to point out that it is important that we share information properly, both from the Cabinet and from the Chamber. And I am sorry, but Mrs Karabulut is wronging a lot of people by seriously saying here that everything has failed, that everything has been lied to, that nothing is right and that it has become a total failure. That's not true. There have been successes. They're just proven, too. It is a pity, even for all those people who have worked for it, to put it at a disadvantage in this way. That's what I wanted to say. With regard to the choice of the deployment of troops, the VVD will always see if we can create an added value and where we can see that we can take positive steps, always see if we can cooperate with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u97	I'm not denying results. And I'm not saying that everything was wretched and tormented. I am only doing exactly what you say is important, namely my work as a representative of the people. I do not accept and accept that we are being lied to, lied to by our cabinet. That is what the debate is about. Mr Bosman said it himself: we sent men and women there, not only then, but also in the years before and also now. The Americans, our allies, appear to be conducting this war on the basis of gross lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u98	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u99	So I repeat my question to Mr Bosman: was it not terribly naive to agree to this, at least with the conditions imposed on the mission in Kunduz? And was that also on the basis of your group that we should be able to say yes to NATO and the Americans?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u100	There was a lot of information available. It's not suddenly a surprise either. The Washington Post comes with information that was actually, for a lot of sharing, just public and available to everyone. In fact, those journalists were simply embedded in many areas. When we went to work, we got the information on the security situation in Afghanistan. Those are things that were just handed over. So it can't really be a surprise that some things were less rosy than we all thought. If we are exerting political pressure here to say that we want to have a mission completed in such a way as to make it a success, I am especially counting on myself. That's what I said in my play. It is above all something that we have to look at ourselves. If we are going to put pressure on a military mission to be carried out in such a way that we, as politicians, are so directing and directing, and in which we have to ask ourselves whether this is helpful for the implementation of the mission, then I find it difficult to do so. For the future, I will look at this much more seriously and much more closely and decide on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u101	I have already said that I would not be very pleased if this debate would now result in us, as a Chamber, not being allowed to talk about missions anymore. For the sake of clarity, I would just like to ask whether it is not also the responsibility of the cabinet in this case when the Prime Minister said to the Chamber: you can do something; what you are asking is really not realistic anymore and I do not take responsibility for that. Is it not a little too easy to say, as Mr Bosman is doing now, that we are concerned about this ourselves? I am in favour of that, but I believe that there is a primary responsibility for the cabinet. I hope we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u102	I was hoping I'd put that balance in my play. I say that I want the information from the Cabinet and that that information must be factual and correct. On the basis of that information, I can make my decisions. If the cabinet says "no problem; we're going to" and if it turns out that it can't, then I have a problem with that. I want the factually correct information. I am therefore absolutely in agreement with you, but I do not want to ignore the fact that we ourselves have a responsibility in this regard. Because we must also be careful to turn it into a political game by pretending that we want to support the mission while we have 6,000 questions and 6,000 conditions where the cabinet has to say 'yes, but then we cannot support it'. So I expect some realism from ourselves. We also need to think about that. I have also indicated how we do this: written questions, oral questions, debates and all that sort of thing. Of course we are talking, of course we are talking and of course we have a responsibility, because I also want to carry it as a Member of Parliament. I think Mr. Van Ojik wants it that way, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr. Chairman. Afghan soldiers and policemen were incompetent and unmotivated. They deserted the bushes. They were drug addicts or they were Taliban. Some were so keen on stealing fuels that they smelled of gasoline all day. That's what comes out of the Afghanistan Papers. It's a destructive image and it's been hidden for a long time. We can also see that in the report on the Kunduz mission. We see the same image of deception. Publications, once they have come out, make it crystal clear that Afghanistan's policy failed hopelessly, that the war in Afghanistan was not to be won and that the public, including the representatives of the people, was systematically misled. Anyone who still thinks that disinformation and deception are just something of the Chinese or Russian state is wrong. The Dutch Government is also responsible for such practices. The PVV is not surprised by the publications of the Washington Post and the Kunduz report. On the contrary. For years we have been leading the way in criticising Afghanistan's policy because we have pierced through all that official language and the selectively presented facts and through the wishful thinking from the government letters. That is why we soon saw Afghanistan as a country torn apart by tribes and religious madness, a hopeless case. Mr. Chairman. Then the cabinet's reaction to all that news about the disinformation. That reaction is downright sad. This is how the cabinet says to us that it will be deployed in the future on multiannual mission mandates. Just as if that changes something about the lack of strategy and the unachievable objectives, because those are the real problems. The cabinet also says that the pursuit of a broad political consensus hampers the feasibility of the mission and the feasibility of the mission targets. In other words, we added some tasks to get as many parties on the left side of the Chamber on board as possible. But what has the cabinet actually been doing since then with that observation? It's just going down the same road. Ongoing missions are still being saddled with gender advisors and aid projects. Left-wing hobbies are still attached to missions to keep left in the Chamber on board as well. Furthermore, the cabinet suddenly stresses the complexity of Afghanistan. I see Mrs Karabulut has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u105	Well, there's something I want to say... when I look at Mrs. Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u106	I am a socialist and in this case I agree with the PVV, which is really quite radical right. What I would like to ask Mr De Roon is whether he wants to drop those qualifications, because there have been right-wing parties who have agreed and there have been left-wing parties, such as mine, who were against these missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u107	That's true. Mrs Karabulut's party was against the mission and the PVV, by the way. Furthermore, the cabinet suddenly stresses the complexity of Afghanistan. But that complexity is then reduced in the government's position to a simple and ridiculous phrase. This phrase reads as follows: that the cabinet continues to strive for an inclusive peace process and lasting peace in Afghanistan. How naive do you want it? How can a lasting, inclusive peace be achieved by making the Taliban part of the solution? It can't be. The Taliban have only one goal and that is an Islamic emirate. To achieve this goal, it will continue to build alliances with terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda, which is also reflected in a very recent UN report from 2020. That is the type of sustainability that the Taliban are thinking of. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the United States and our government screwed over Afghanistan is, of course, unacceptable, but it is even bigger than that. Indeed, we see misdirection and disinformation not only in the Afghanistan mission, but also in other missions, where there are the same mistakes in policy, where we are also selectively informed and where we are also deceived by our own government. I refer to support for Islamic fighting groups in Syria. I mention the failed mission in Mali and the total failure missions in Somalia and South Sudan. Mr. Chairman. The real problem is the idea that many politicians and policy makers believe that we can impose failed states on Western values, stability and democratic principles. That's wishful thinking. That's air biking. It's a dream. As long as this does not get through to policy makers and politicians, nothing will change and the disinformation about the military missions that the Netherlands participates in will also continue to exist. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a final point. Disinformation is a real threat to our democracy. I am now quoting Minister Ollongren, who did so not so long ago. That's why she wanted to start a campaign with the cabinet against disinformation. Well, President, that campaign can set them in motion when they return to the Chamber; a campaign against their own directors and against the cabinet that has for years put citizens and parliaments on the wrong track about that failed adventure in Afghanistan, which must be put to an end as soon as possible as regards the PVV. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr President. It has been saddened by the provision of information to Parliament. How can we, as a Chamber, as a representative of the people do our job if we are systematically deprived of essential information, if we are turned around, muffled away, silenced or even lied to? What is the situation with our democracy? It can't go on like this. Previous speakers said: the truth is the first to die in a war. It's very sad, but it's true. Not only the American people have been misled about the war in Afghanistan for years; we have also been deceived. The shocking data from the Afghanistan Papers show that. Military policy-makers and development workers sketch a distraught picture of the American and allied efforts in Afghanistan. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the statement made by the SP and wholeheartedly support the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry. And yes, the Prime Minister must indeed come to the Chamber to apologize for the lies that have been told to our Chamber. It wasn't a training mission. It was a battle mission. Who's gonna take responsibility for this? I have a number of supplementary questions. If it is wrongly cynicism to label Afghanistan as a failure, according to former Minister Van Middelkoop, can the missions that aim freedom at all fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u110	Everyone in this Chamber is critical and I do not deny Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen her criticism, but I would like to ask her in what way this mission in Kunduz was a fight mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u111	As I indicated, I agree with the speech of the SP. Mrs Karabulut has shown that the Chamber is not well informed about what the trained agents were doing there. Cops weren't just trained and trained there. They also participated in battles and the substantive mission. So it wasn't just a training mission; it's become a combat mission. The Chamber is not well informed about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u112	Let me just say this for the sake of certainty, because that misunderstanding also threatened to arise. I do not believe that Dutch soldiers fought there, at most in self-defense if necessary. However, the suggestion that it was a fight mission evokes a bit of the analogy as if it were something like in Uruzgan where a reconstruction mission was screened, while in fact there was a need to fight hard to secure the stability of that province. I think it is important, especially if we evaluate a mission together, that we do evaluate the mission as it happened. It wasn't a fight mission; it was a police training mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u113	Then you have corrected this point from your perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u114	I would like to ask Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen if she was referring to what the post-mission assessment shows, namely that unlike hard guarantees, the trained agents were being deployed on the offensive and other lies surrounding wars in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u115	Yeah, exactly. Mr. Chairman. What are the consequences of knowingly counting non-educated agents? How does the Minister intend to prevent such a major mistake in the future? What are the consequences of certificates issued for students who did not comply with the directives? And if the question of what longer-term military deployment could contribute to the improvement of the police and justice system in Afghanistan played a subordinate role, can we claim, like former CDS De Kruif, that the missions in Afghanistan were there to stand for our values? Are political and diplomatic influence part of these values? According to the Foreign Affairs reports, one of the reasons why it was so important to make Kunduz happen was not to disappear the Dutch commitment in Afghanistan. Was that important for Dutch interests, or for American interests? And how do they relate to each other in such a situation? An important conclusion of the report identifies the restrictive effect of the commitments made to Parliament to create a broader coalition. At what time or on what terms does the Ministry decide that a mission is no longer feasible? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet does not want to outsource it on missions to an independent party, as this would not be possible due to political sensitivity, the interests of partners and practical limitations such as confidentiality and security requirements. Is it possible to have a report such as the current post-mission report drawn up during the mission and by the same or similar compilers? Mr. Chairman. Finally. It is recommended that a sound, expert-based plan be included in the mission design for strengthening the position of women in a timely manner. The cabinet states that this is already anchored, but what does this mean in practice? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u117	I'm gonna go over that statement of mission one more time, 'cause it's really bothering me. We have a responsibility as a chamber to do justice to the men and women we employ in that police training mission. And the fact that the outcome is possible that a police officer or a number of police officers have been deployed elsewhere doesn't make this mission suddenly different. The completion of the police training mission is still a police training mission. Does Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen agree with me that she is wronging those men and women who have been involved in the police training mission with the description of fighting missions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u118	I absolutely do not want to disrespect the men and women who have been sent to that area by calling it a combat mission. What I want to say is that the Americans have been lied to and have been misled about the mission, that wrong information has been given about it and that we have therefore been misled about it. We sent our men and women there, and we need to know what that mission is about, what's happening there. If the papers then show that there has been all kinds of deception, then that is a very big problem for these men and women too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u119	We're gonna go over each other completely, because I was just talking about Kunduz, about the police training mission. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen identifies this as a fight mission, based on the fact that a number of police officers have been deployed. That happened against the wishes of the Chamber, and I am quite honest with you. But that doesn't do justice to what we all agreed on, how these men and women will be deployed in the mission of the police training mission? Then you're wronging these men and women, apart from what all the Americans have said? It's about Kunduz, about this mission and your words. I'm sorry, I'm talking about Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u120	I understand this wasn't the mission's intention, but if it does happen, then you can't say it was just a training mission anymore. And I absolutely do not want to wrong all those men and women who work very hard there and work with heart and soul for safety, but I am very sorry that, on the basis of misinformation and deception, people are still being used in a way that was not intended. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr. Bosman, you too have made this point clear. Thank you, also to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u122	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A large number of Members of Parliament began to express their appreciation for the men and women who have done that difficult work there in Afghanistan, on our behalf and under our responsibility, and to say that the fact that we are now rightly debating things that should have been or should have been different should not diminish our great appreciation for the people who have been and still are active there. I would like to join with you wholeheartedly. It is equally true that a number of things have not gone well. I will go into detail in a moment where the information provided has not been correct. That's not possible. At the same time, we must note that Afghanistan is still worrying in a number of areas, but it is better off than in 2001, before the start of action by the Netherlands in a coalition with a large number of other countries. This action was, in part, military, or was aimed at police action, but, of course, it also involved reconstruction activities, supporting the rule of law, education and health care. Fortunately, despite the enormous problems that Afghanistan still faces, it is a country where elections have taken place and where, fortunately, unlike the time when the Taliban was in power, girls can go to school. There are therefore a number of positive developments. The same goes for the police training mission we're talking about today. The report of the IOB inspection highlights a number of things that have not gone well, but also notes that there is a lasting legacy, by the way, with steps forward and steps backwards. The report also notes that there is still a functioning police training centre, that the Dutch method is still being used there and that the model of the mobile police training teams is still being applied. Mr. Chairman. I will go into what has gone wrong with the provision of information, the lessons learned from it and the specific questions surrounding the Afghanistan Papers. Mr Bijleveld will address a number of questions in the field of defence. First of all, the provision of information. Indeed, the IOB report leads to the observation that certain figures were incorrect. That's not good. The Chamber is right that the Chamber should be properly informed and that this is essential in the assessment of missions such as this, and of course at all in parliamentary work. The government, the ministers, myself, we are responsible for the proper provision of information. The report also discusses possible explanations for the figures. In reporting on the number of participants who would have completed an literacy course, intermediate reports on participation were taken over in a awkward manner. That's not a confession, it's a factual, procedural description of what happened. But the report also deals with the fact that a number of interviewees said with so many words that they experienced pressure, that they experienced group pressure. And that is indeed worrying. I myself find that very worrying. That is why we also announce in the letter a number of measures, which I will go into in a moment. A number of explanations are conceivable. Mr Van Helvert's term 'professional optimism' could be an important part of this, but it is important that we work very consciously on a culture and a climate in which, contrary to professional optimism, there is an urge to report the facts correctly, even if these facts are sometimes less beautiful than was hoped at the start of a mission. That is also the reason why, in the letter, we indicate a number of measures to prevent this from happening again in the future. Mr. Chairman. I would now like to comment on the lessons learned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u124	Before looking ahead again, I would like to mention the wrong, incorrect and incomplete information of the House of Representatives, as opposed to firm commitments from the Prime Minister. Who's gonna take responsibility for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u125	It is important, however, for Mrs Karabulut to indicate exactly what information she is referring to. Of course, we all know how responsibility goes in general. State law is a incumbent executive responsible for all the doing and leaving of all predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr President, I tried to be brief, as you always ask me, but I will explain the question further with your permission. Let me pick out the most important thing. One firm guarantee from the Prime Minister, which he personally vouched for and said he would inform the Chamber and stop the mission if it did, is that trained agents would not be deployed in offensive combat missions. It has happened, as it turns out, in my opinion, for the first time, it has never been communicated to the Chamber from the report, from the post mission assessment. The minister says, "I'm responsible." I'm glad to hear that. It is, of course, unacceptable for the Chamber to be misinformed. What is the consequence of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u127	When it comes specifically to the fact that Dutch trained agents may also have been deployed offensively, a report was made to the Chamber for the first time in 2011. That was during the duration of the mission. Then it was reported to the Chamber that there was no way to rule out the fact that we trained agents would also be involved in offensive actions. The report before us again points that out, but that is not the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u128	A follow-up question, because the first question is not fully answered. Now it just turns out that the promise has not been kept. On other points, such as the training of agents et cetera et cetera, the Chamber has been misinformed and misinformed. What responsibility does the Minister take? What does the Minister want to say to us, to the men and to the women and to all the other people who have participated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u129	The current minister is always responsible for all the work of previous ministers. The Chamber is aware of that, and so am I.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u130	Before the Minister tells us what the cabinet is going to do: that the Chamber has been misinformed is not acceptable. We all agree on that. That people who do this difficult work experience group pressure is also not acceptable. I would ask the Minister to give a little more thought to the question of where the perceived group pressure, which people feel, comes from. That's got to come from somewhere. I'd like to know from where.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u131	I very much agree with that. I also went from the question of what exactly went wrong about the underlying causes. The group pressure issue, on which I very much agree with Mr Van Ojik. Mr Sjoerdsma and others also discussed it extensively. First of all, it is the reason why the cabinet states in the letter that it wishes to take three measures. One of these measures concerns the mission design. In the future, we will make clear how the progress of the mission will be measured. In the Article 100 letters we will by default include a paragraph in which the points and risks are identified and the measures we want to take to limit them. During the process of preparation of missions, as it is well known, the importance of transparent reporting will be emphasised. That brings me to Mr Van Ojik's point. We will point staff to available channels to ring the bell if someone doesn't feel heard, like a confidant. Of course, we have also asked ourselves the question which the Chamber is asking itself here, how it may be that people feel pressured without the IOB report coming to the conclusion that either that leader or politician has given the order. Mr Bijleveld and I once again asked the question to the IOB with whom we had a discussion in preparation for this debate, because this was also a huge question that lived with us. Mr Sjoerdsma also pointed out that this question is also more relevant because it cannot only be used in military missions. Wherever people have to do a complicated job on behalf of the cabinet, the government, you can get an atmosphere in which people feel: I can only report on what's going well or I have to write it down so that it looks like it's going well, because if I don't, it's bad for my career or it has other consequences. In addition, it can play 'professional optimism', a term which Mr Van Helvert used and which I repeat here. When you participate in a mission, you go there with full energy. It's a lot to go to a difficult area for a long time, so something can crawl into your own head, in the sense of: if things aren't going well now, I'm sure it's going to be okay soon, so I'm just gonna sit on the positive side for a while; that's the half-full glass. I think, but that's a little interpretive, that it's a combination of these factors. That is also why we are very consciously going to apply the third measure that I have just mentioned, namely that we are going to point out this mechanism to people in preparation for a mission. There may be an optimism creeping into the people involved or a desire to report more positively in the organisation than the figures or observations give rise to. Then don't let that get to you. We, as ministers, ultimately responsible, will therefore also stand for those who bring that bad news. That doesn't mean that there can't be an opinion of other people who say that they think it's more positive, but that's quite different than anyone dares to bring the news at all. For me, any recommendation we adopt in our package of measures is important, but I think that third is very crucial, namely that, before people start working, there but also here in the reporting channels in The Hague, we realize that, being a lesson from previous missions and a specific lesson from this research, there may be pressure to report positively. Then don't let that affect you. We want to know what's happening. Even if it's not what we hoped it would be, just report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u132	For that report, as the Cabinet letter says, you can go to a trusted person, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u134	Now I noticed in the IOB report that this was already happening during the Kunduz mission. Apparently, there were also people at the time who said: the Chamber is being misinformed, I am calling the bell. However, nothing happened with these people's complaints or observations. What you can learn from this is that the fact that you can deal with your complaints somewhere doesn't seem to mean that the political leadership or the military leadership says: okay, then we're going to do this differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u135	Certainly, those signals have apparently been issued and stopped somewhere in the line upwards, without us being able to find where exactly was. But that can lead to nothing but the conclusion that this is not good, and that we have not properly completed it both in the culture and in the reporting line. If we do not work very consciously on this every time, there is a huge risk that it will happen again next time. That is why I propose a hierarchy of the measures to be taken and say that it is now explicitly considering this great risk because it is a great risk to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u137	Mr Kerstens asked how the Chamber could be involved more, more comprehensively in future monitoring, both at the end and in the interim.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u138	On the previous point, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u139	If the Minister was indeed done with the previous point: I think he has said a number of important things about the need to get the facts on the table and then to give them a political weighting himself. This is something that's broader than just on missions. I am referring, for example, to official pressure on researchers, officials in the field of Justice and Security who have not always felt safe enough, and I can give you more examples. In fact, I would like to ask this Minister whether it would not be wise for the cabinet to give explicit instructions to all government officials: feel free to report the facts, and if you do not feel free, you can come here and here. This is simply to underline that message once again, because I know that this cabinet considers it important. It might be good to say this again explicitly to all those employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u140	I'd be happy to. Mr Bijleveld and I will certainly report on this debate in the Council of Ministers. I was inevitably reminded of this mechanism when I read this week a report on a previous policy area of mine, on neighbourhood policy. In different newspapers you read several reports and reactions about what is happening. It is a very different area, fortunately not in war conditions, but I had the feeling that there too a professional optimism or pressure can arise from above or a combination that leads to optimistic reporting. This is a broad message. The special thing about military missions is, of course, the great confusion of the terrain. There are also language problems and sometimes confidentiality; that makes it extra complex. But the general mechanism that can create pressure from different sides to report positively is everywhere. Mr Sjoerdsma is right. The whole cabinet has to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u141	Thank you to the Minister for this clear commitment that he wants to take the feeling of this debate with him to the Council of Ministers. Finally, may I ask him whether he would also like to report back to the Chamber the feeling of the Council of Ministers, or whether something is being done about it? I'd really appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u142	I'll be happy to... I need to think about who's going to sign that, but I understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u143	With regard to the involvement of Afghan agents in offensive operations against the Taliban, as shown by the investigation published last week, the report that the Minister cited says something really different. This isn't in there. It states that they have been spoken to and that this would not show that they were being used for offensive actions. Perhaps the Minister will be able to respond to that. My question to the Minister is as follows. Is it not far too easy that the Minister now seems to be hiding behind the execution and behind the military, while it was the Prime Minister and the various parliamentary groups in this Chamber who designed a mission impossible because they wanted to meet the demands and pressure from the Americans? Does the Minister agree with me that this should never have happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u144	Mrs Karabulut's question now is: shouldn't the whole mission have taken place? You end up with: it should never have happened. What do you mean, "it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u145	May I explain, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u146	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u147	The political decision that has been taken. The Prime Minister, Rutte, you remember, at that time, who was going to gain support, especially from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, in order to ensure that there was still a majority because there was no majority, and because the population was not in favour of this mission, as surveys showed. But the Prime Minister and the Cabinet didn't want to sell a no to the Americans. That was leading and that has made everyone feel the pressure and that apparently pressure has been put from the top to imagine everything more beautiful than it has been?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u148	Then I understood your question correctly. By "it," you meant this mission should never have been approved. I disagree with Mrs Karabulut. It is not for nothing that I started by saying that Afghanistan is far from where we would like Afghanistan to be. But also with the observation that it started in 2001 with terrible attacks on the World Trade Center. That was the reason for the American action to remove the basis for Al-Qaeda there. If we had not then made the combination of military action with a large number of other countries, unfortunately needed, but the country was governed by the Taliban... Really a terrible medieval regime with no respect whatsoever for human rights of which women, non-believers, homosexuals experienced the terrible consequences. If it hadn't happened, now you could never rewrite history, I assume the Taliban still sit there and keep women and gays stone and girls at home. Fortunately, we have been able to achieve progress in many of these areas. That leads me to the conclusion that, even with the knowledge of today, it is wise that the Netherlands, as part of a coalition, has taken that step. Indeed, even as part of a coalition. I often have debates with Mrs Karabulut and others about how the Netherlands acts abroad. For a country like the Netherlands, this means always acting in coalitions. Whereas the fact that a number of countries are able to form a coalition often has a special significance in itself, in a world in which we need very much cooperation and which is often very difficult to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u149	I hear the Minister, to conclude in very strange terms, actually say: what we did then, we would do again in no time. Namely: we didn't want to say no to the Americans. Knowing that it was a mission impossible, support was gathered in the Chamber, knowing that that would make implementation more difficult. Then lies were told to the Chamber, the Chamber was misinformed, information was withheld and pressure was exerted on the military. Then I would like the Minister to take full responsibility for this at the moment, rather than hiding behind the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut and I have become a bit of a family in these debates, with sneaky habits. One of these sneaking-in habits is that Mrs Karabulut makes an endless speech, with all kinds of sentences that I do not agree with at all, which I have not said either. The same applies to this argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u151	Back to the cultural aspect. It was the cabinet itself that discussed in the cabinet's response to the research the role of this culture in the departments, when it comes to non-transparentity. The Minister now also devotes a lot of words to it. I appreciate that. But if I draw this attention to the concrete measures that are being proposed, we are going to pay extra attention to them when we work towards a mission, and people are being reminded of the existence of a trusted person where they can go if they can't get rid of their story elsewhere, then I think: that is very thin. Does the Minister really have the confidence, the fiduciary in the very great cultural problem that there is. I have already said it, I have never talked about culture as often as since I am the spokesman for the defence department.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u152	Not automatically. You have to do this consistently and consistently, and not only in the case of the Defense Department. I very much agreed with the Members of Parliament, of whom you were one, who agreed that this is a broader issue. This involves a combination of factors. Even if there is no explicit pressure from politics, the highest army leadership or the administration, there may be a feeling of "they will only want to hear positive news." So you have to send the message very consistently that we find that this is creeping in very quickly and that we call on people not only to be aware of it, but also to dare to come out with bad news. That must always be done with a form of hearing and hearing again. It may well be that someone says that a 50% turnout is bad, while another on the same team says: we do not think that under these circumstances is so crazy. Then let that come up, but sing it and bring it out. If you feel like you can't bring it out, go to the confidant, but don't try to think for someone else what he'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u153	I realize that sometimes it's not black and white, but the examples mentioned in the report were about things that were actually red and turned green in the report. I commend the Minister for it, and his colleague has done so more often than not, calling on the people in the organisation to be open. However, these calls have been made more often, even from where the minister is now standing. Wouldn't it just help if that call was accompanied by the next communication? "If you run into something, you can go to me. Then, so to speak, I'll make sure you're promoted sooner if you're transparent than it makes your career difficult." The latter has so far actually been the case as a result of this culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u154	I think you should keep the thresholds down. But a call from the Minister: call me or mail me? Yes, anyone can call me or e-mail me, but I do not think that Mr Bijleveld or I, however friendly we are by nature, are the most accessible point of contact for a police trainer in Kunduz. If one of the trainers still wants to call me or e-mail me, he's welcome. Of course, I get regular mail or mail, sometimes at home, from people who say: Minister, you should know this. But I am convinced that, if you want it to be effective, it must also take place much lower in the organization. People really need to feel like they can have a debate with their supervisor. At DOD, I assume that's not possible during a gunfight, but that's what my colleague Bijleveld is about. People need to feel like they can argue with their superiors. If they really feel that their findings are not being taken into account, they should be able to report them without consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u155	I didn't just make a call to employees to call the minister. I called on the Minister to remember, if such a situation arises, the words spoken here today and at earlier and undoubtedly later moments: feel free to make a report. If someone does that and still runs into that culture, I expect the minister to stand up and say, "Listen, I'll stand up for you."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u156	Yeah, you're right. That's what I'm gonna stand for. I hear Mr Bijleveld saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u157	I suggest you move on. You had actually just begun, but a lot of questions have been asked in the first term. I hope that's yours now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u158	Sure. I come to the questions asked by Mr Kerstens about the possibility of involving independents in the final evaluations. As far as Mr Bijleveld and myself are concerned, there is no objection to that. In military missions, you often encounter the practical aspect that part of the information is secret, because it is military information, and that some of the information from allies will have to come who have a different culture when it comes to disclosure. However, as far as we are concerned, there is no objection to final reports with independent scrutiny. We're actually talking about future missions. In fact, we are also talking here about how we will deal with evaluations at the beginning in the future. What do you think you're gonna accomplish? How do you think you're gonna measure that? Mr Van Ojik rightly said that. We intend to have that standard done independently in the initial trajectory. We will therefore indicate where we expect restrictions, because in general I expect them on military missions in the areas I mentioned: military confidentiality or ally confidentiality. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to move on to the questions that have been asked about the Afghanistan Papers. Mr Sjoerdsma asked if you could say that the Netherlands has been misinformed by the United States. I wouldn't like to take that thesis. The Washington Post Papers contain the interview reports that have once again inspired the reports that have been published and which everyone could take note of, including us, from the inspector for Afghanistan, SIGAR. Those reports were generally very critical. The terms were not literally the terms that came out of the interviews, but they were critical. Even if I look at the letters on the progress you have had from me or my predecessors in Afghanistan, you will see on the one hand a picture of the things that we have been able to achieve happily, which I also started with. But on the other hand, and this is the case today, you will also see an outline of the very difficult situation in Afghanistan and a number of very persistent problems: about the quality of governance, about violence, about corruption, which Mr Sjoerdsma also called attention to. Around corruption, in the past, the Netherlands has also taken measures such as the temporary freezing of contributions and the constant use of other partners to combat them. But we must be honest about the fact that it is very endemic in Afghan society. So, even after reading the Washington Post Papers and rejecting the decision at the time, the discussion I just had with Mrs Karabulut, I stick to the observation that our people have done an incredibly complicated job and are still doing it, that it is not as fast as we would have hoped, but also that with the information we have now, the choice should not have been then and fortunately was not to help Afghanistan either. Our commitment remains to continue to help Afghanistan in a very critical but committed manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u159	Are there any other questions connected with this? Then you can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u160	No, I'm at the end of this block now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yeah, okay, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u162	After answering other questions, I wanted to move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u163	Yes, I'll go to Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u164	After 1,000 billion spending on this war, 33 billion in construction, massive corruption and the devastating conclusions from the Afghanistan Papers, I would like to have a response from the Minister to the conclusion of Sopko, the inspector, who says that we have been lied to massively. How does the Minister feel about that? What action has he taken on this? Can he respond to that? Because the fact that things have been achieved is quite weedy. But there was also an awful lot of money spent. There's been a lie. There's been corruption. There's a lot of violence right now. And a lot of Afghan women are also oppressed by those supported by the Americans and the allies, whether or not through the CIA. So it is indeed a diffuse situation, but it is mainly a failed war. I would like a response to this fact, called Sopko.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mrs Karabulut's theorem is very harsh, namely: if only we had not gone there. Then her statement is also: if only those girls, the gays, all those people who were being treated horribly, would have been left in there. Mrs Karabulut is quite right with her final sentence: the situation is diffuse and very complicated. But that cannot lead to the conclusion that the Netherlands, Europe and NATO should have let the Afghans sink in 2002?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr President, I am sorry to see that you are not intervening, but what kind of answer is this? Does the Minister deny that Afghans are dying on a daily basis, even at this time, that 500 000 Afghans are constantly fighting, that the Taliban has become stronger and ruling, that negotiations are under way with the Taliban, that there has been a lie and that there is massive corruption? He's not gonna twist my words and say that I'd say we should just let the Afghans go? I'm a representative of the people and I'm looking for the truth. I've heard all that public relations stuff before. I also speak Afghan women. Those bums from the occupation. Those bums from the war. They want us to withdraw the military. Can that sound be heard, too? And may I now perhaps answer the Minister's question as to what he thinks of the conclusion of a major American inspector who says that the American people have been constantly lied to? Or does the Minister just say here: I ignore that; we go on happily?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mrs Karabulut once again in a rather angry tone, a huge row of claims and statements which I just referred to in my response to the key question: does Mrs Karabulut think that we should not have gone to Afghanistan, that we should have let Afghanistan down? I didn't get an answer to that. I'm gonna leave it there for now. I'm just taking out the question about the American official's announcement that he thought there was a lie. That is a statement from an American official who should be discussed in the US House of Representatives. There has been a lot of discussion about this. I have indicated here that, on the basis of the information we have now added by the Washington Post Papers, I have not come to a different conclusion about the reason for the mission at the time, the elements that have been successful and those that have not had it, than without this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u168	Seventh question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u169	I have to say that the Minister is unfortunately forcing me to ask this question. And there are many, many questions to ask, I can tell you, because there are still many untruths being preached. One, I wish peace for the Afghan people. And I have to say that the war has failed and that it is more unsafe than ever in Afghanistan. Two, the Minister refuses to respond to or to judge a very harsh conclusion, namely that the American people have been lied to. I can only conclude that the lie and incomplete information of the House of Representatives continues until today, and that few are interested in the truth behind the war. Everyone here, the Minister too, says we have to be honest. And everyone says they want to help the Afghans. But how can we help other people when we do not want to be clear about lies that have been told and when we do not want to speak on the basis of facts? There are indeed parties here that are making a different assessment, listening to the majority of people in the Netherlands, who have asked critical questions, who have voted against other parties may vote in favour and who also look at the reality in Afghanistan. The fact that he's throwing those parties away like they're abandoning the Afghans is something I find very low on the Minister's part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u170	Once again, it is complicated that this is an argument of ten, fifteen theories, so that I can only take one part out of it. The part that I am getting out of it is undoubtedly getting mad again, but it is hard for me to deal with them all. I agree with that. That is why I declare that it is not good that the Chamber, and therefore the public, has not received the right information on a number of points. That's not good. That shouldn't have happened. At the same time, and this is also a part of fair information, this police mission has achieved a number of results and the action of the Netherlands in cooperation with a number of other countries has led to a Afghanistan that is far from perfect, which is not as good as we would have hoped for in 2002. But the alternative is much worse. That is why this question is very relevant. In that sense, I understand Mrs Karabulut's anger. If I ask her to the woman, "do you think we should have let the Afghans fall into it?', I would like to say that that is the key question that lies behind the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u171	This will be your last question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u172	Let me make our position clear, because the Minister refuses to answer questions and to debate them on the basis of the facts. What he does do is acknowledge that we have been lied to and that we have been deceived, but then he does not take responsibility for it. 'Cause he says, "We're supposed to keep going like this." I believe that major mistakes have been made because of political considerations. Those considerations were politically domestic, but also international, because we very much want to maintain that position and say yes to the Americans. That's why everything had to move away, and that's what it turns out. This is now apparent from the Afghanistan Papers and also from their own investigations. We still don't know the whole truth. Then it is my right, Mr President, to point out here as well. The Minister would do well to respond to this on the other side of warfare, namely that that war failed fatally, that the people in Afghanistan are still unsafe and that the people supported by Western governments in Afghanistan are not necessarily better than the Taliban. War is not the only and often not the right way to advance Afghans or any people. There are very different motives here: geopolitics, relations with the United States and NATO. It is not about the Dutch interest, it is not about the Afghan interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u173	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u174	I shall take another part of the long speech, and only one on which I agree with Mrs Karabulut. I'm just trying to keep the atmosphere a little cozy. I am referring to the fact that war is not the solution to problems. I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u175	I'd leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u176	Hence our commitment is always a combination of war if necessary. As long as people can't go safely to their fields and children can't go to school safely because there's war, there can't be any reconstruction. But we are always doing so in conjunction with diplomacy to try to reach a solution at the negotiating table, and still crucially so as to ensure that people in those areas where we have fortunately managed to achieve a significant reduction in violence can rebuild their lives, go to school and provide for their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u177	I believe that almost the entire Chamber has discussed the interaction between parliament and cabinet in this type of matter in the first term. In the case of Kunduz, this meant that a parliament that imposed 32 or 33 conditions on the mission and the then Prime Minister, who is also the current Prime Minister, who accepted all those demands of the Chamber, because he needed a political majority. Result: a mission that we now say has become difficult to implement. I have two questions for the Minister. The first question is: how does he qualify, looking back on that? How'd it go? The second question, at least as important: how are we going to prevent it from happening again in the future? Because that is, of course, conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u178	That question remains relevant. It was also discussed extensively in 2014, if I may say so, during the evaluation of the mission itself. That was in the debate in which it was agreed that a post mission assessment would take place after five years. That's the report we're discussing right now. But exactly this question was extensively discussed in 2014 by government and Chamber. On both sides it has been pointed out that at that time, undoubtedly with good intentions, conditions were sometimes laid down by the House of Representatives which in practice could not be realised and that at that time the government indicated that it was willing or able to do so. Several parties have, of course, done so to different degrees. I was just referring to a letter from 2011. It was later indicated that we had not succeeded in what we had previously wanted. This, of course, is just as much a constant warning that every new mission must be a sign on the wall. Politics always has the right to set framework conditions. Mr Van Ojik also commented on this. Are we now setting framework conditions that are still feasible, or are these preconditions that cannot be met? You can't unsubscribe to a specific new mission right now. You can say that we are learning this lesson intrusively, just as we are teaching the lesson about care that there is transparent communication. As a cabinet, therefore, we must state very clearly what is or is not feasible, in accordance with the wishes of the Chamber. On a small scale, I was just trying to do that where it was about how far you can go with external evaluation. Then I said: I can go a long way with that, but I see two important possible limitations. This will also apply to other wishes of the Chamber. We must clearly state what we think is feasible or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to what Mr Blok has just said, I will only do a few more things. That is because the only question I have been asked was about the provision of information. I will say a few more sentences about this at Mr Blok, but not after I have said that I want to start with the people as well. The responsibility of the cabinet to send Dutch people abroad to make the world safer for the Netherlands is heavy, whether it be military or people who go out from the police or the Department of Foreign Affairs. I know that in your Chamber, too, that responsibility to provide support weighs heavily. Mr Bosman said that once again. Our experience is that the Chamber takes this task very seriously. It is good to see that again. We must do this together and we must stand together for it. Mr Blok has already mentioned this. This includes the fact that Afghanistan is indeed a complex country. That has already been discussed. Achieving ultimately sustainable results is therefore going to fall and stand up. It's hard for people sometimes, for everyone who works there. So I really want to express my appreciation and thanks to everyone who has done so. I would like to endorse what the Members of the Chamber have said. Those people have indeed worked under difficult conditions, and I would like to add that today they are still committed to improving the situation in Afghanistan for the people, because that is what it is all about in the end. I will only answer the question about information, in addition to what Mr Blok has said, because I have, of course, been asked a question about this as Minister of Defence. The reports that have been made are integrated reports. But what Mr Kerstens, Mr Bosman and, in fact, everyone have said and what I have said before is absolutely true: the shutters in the defence sector must be opened. We must be transparent. This is necessary to establish a culture that we simply need today, a culture of openness and transparency. I fully agree with what Mr Blok said: no one should experience group pressure. Even if there is no clear client to designate, no one should experience it. We have debated this with your Chamber a number of times, not only in plenary, but we must learn from what we have seen in the past. In this sense, these conclusions of the IOB in the post-mission assessment are, of course, firm again. We're gonna work on that again eventually. Mr Blok has indicated how we are doing this. It's horrible. It may never happen, but I think it will help us to be more open and transparent. You have to. We also have a number of measures in mind for this. That's part of telling the truth. Good news or bad news, it's both possible. That truth should be in the reports to your Chamber. I would like to add to what Mr Blok just said in the direction of Mr Kerstens: in the end, of course, someone who can go nowhere can always turn to us. I have also spoken about this with the Commander of the Armed Forces. In the end, we are also the two places where people should be able to go. So you can count on that, too. No one should feel pressured in any way, whether that is professional optimism, not to report or any other form of pressure to avoid telling the truth. We will work together on this, even after what we have seen here. Mr President, I think that was what I could add.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u181	It's very good to hear that. I'm giving some kind of case. The information must be clear, transparent and good, but I am dealing with situations where operational risk management is applied within the Defence Organisation and it is said "listen, it's all a bit sub-optimal, but we can do it" and I am later confronted as a Chamber with shortcomings that are said afterwards "yes, but according to operational risk management it can." Let me specify this. On the ship to Hormuz we had a technical briefing on whether the ship is operational. That's all true, but then all of a sudden the story about the gear box comes through the newspaper. It is still very operational, but there are limitations. Let me put it this way: it would help me if that information were simply shared and it was also indicated to the Chamber in advance that this might be a problem, but that this was mitigated, that it had been considered, that it had been looked at by the Defense Department and what the solutions were. That will at least prevent discussion in my group, because if there is such a newspaper, I am addressed by my colleagues: 'Hey, Bosman, you have introduced us now, but there are things going on'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u182	I get that point. We had also discussed this point in the preparation of the Council of Ministers, because we were aware of it. So it's been a weighting. In the end, I must also take the military advice that is available to you: is the ship ultimately tailored to the task? We were aware of these things. It's annoying how this happened. In the technical briefing it was finally explained how that was seen, but you are right: we can report that in itself if we write something about it. That is also more transparent in your direction, but we are taking the military advice. That is what our balance must be based on. This also applies to your consideration: you need to know whether the ship is tailored to the tasks and function it is required to perform. The answer to that was simply yes. So that's also what you need to be able to rely on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u183	That is also what I trust when the Commander of the Armed Forces says under Article 100: that is what we are going to deliver. But as far as communication is concerned: where there is sometimes something wrong but where it can be done, it might be useful to mention it in advance in that transparency. We had a discussion at middle defense formation the other day. At that time, the question was also asked whether my judgment would have been different. I said: 'No, but I have a responsibility to bear; I have to explain it to my group'. If we could have known things in advance, I think that is a little more convenient than explaining afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u184	I agree. I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u185	However, about what the Minister says, namely that the shutters should be opened and that the ministry should become more transparent. I'm a little worried. When we ask questions as a Chamber, we do not get an answer or are referred to secrecy and it is said: these are secret documents; it is state secret. Then what signal does it send to the military, who are supposed to be free to tell the truth, to tell things as they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u186	I cannot quite put Mrs Van Kooten's question. We have responded on behalf of the cabinet to what is in the IOB report. Of course, things are sometimes secret in military missions, and that is not a secret, or that some things cannot be reported for operational reasons. Then that's what we say. Mr Blok has just said something about this. But that doesn't change the fact that if there's something secret, people in the organization should feel safe in their actions to report cases to their supervisor. It doesn't matter. But sometimes we can't report everything in your room. Sometimes it's possible with another committee. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u187	I am concerned with the question of how the cultural change in the defence sector, by being more transparent and opening the shutters, will radiate to the military at the time we ask parliamentary questions, and it's just as it is, we don't get any answers. Those soldiers are supposed to be free to tell what the truth is, just to repeat it once more. I think the problem is much deeper. We can now say 'we have to open the shutters' and 'we are going to be more transparent', but it is a cultural change. How's the DOD gonna make that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u188	If the Chamber asks questions, it will receive an answer. If we can't say something because it's state secret, we say it. But the Chamber always gets an answer. The Chamber may or may not be satisfied with the answer it receives; that is a weighting which the Chamber itself must make. As far as the cultural change is concerned, I have just told you how we are working on it. We have also indicated how, looking at the method we have in mind to report to the Chamber, we are working on change. That's a permanent process. That's what leaders need to talk about all the time. They're supposed to be trusting. This is true in every organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u189	I think I'll kick in an open door when I say that President Trump is dying to get his troops back from Afghanistan, sooner than later. The ideal early stage is before the presidential election in the United States. But there was a message in The New York Times yesterday that other NATO countries are also considering bringing back thousands of troops from Afghanistan. My question to the Minister is: what does she know about these considerations of other NATO countries? Is the Netherlands perhaps one of the NATO countries that is considering this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u190	I didn't read The New York Times, but yesterday we had an AO that was preparing for NATO Defence ministerial. The PVV wasn't there. We have, of course, talked about Afghanistan and how we are there. As you know, the Dutch cabinet of your Chamber has been given a mandate to be present in Afghanistan until 2021. There will indeed be talks next week at the NATO ministerial meeting on Wednesdays and Thursdays, I say, apart from Iraq, about Afghanistan. You will receive a report from the NATO ministerial. If the American colleague says something about a development there, you will also hear what we have heard about it and what we think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u191	It's nice that the Secretary of State has agreed to do so. Then I hope that it is a full report, so that we do not later find ourselves being misled again, which I do not suspect the Minister in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u192	I'm glad you didn't mention it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u193	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I'll take a look at Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u194	Thank you, Mr President. The first victim in wartime is the truth. That is a well-known quote in the debate, even today, from many colleagues about the war in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, I note that the Dutch military mission in Kunduz has also been the victim of the truth. And that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Chamber has repeatedly lied about the Dutch involvement in the war in Afghanistan;]] [[considers that serious concerns have not been sufficiently addressed;]] [[expresses distrust of this course of action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-695]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u195	To make sure that I understand what Mrs Karabulut is now submitting, I ask her: is this a motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u196	I don't trust the whole thing. It has often been said, as I have just said, that the truth is the first to die in the war. I do not have the impression that something is being done both on the part of the cabinet and on the part of the Chamber. At least I do not have the impression that something is going to change and that some effort is being made to take responsibility for improving the situation, to offer openness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u197	Finally, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u198	Madam President, I am also looking at you, because I am not getting an answer to this question. But it is an important question, also in relation to the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u199	Why are you looking at me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u200	Because the answer to the question of whether it is a motion of censure means that we are going to vote today, or not. It also means something for the presence of my group and colleagues. So my question to Mrs Karabulut, to which I would like a clear answer, is as follows: does Mrs Karabulut put forward a motion of censure or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u201	The text is crystal clear. The text is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u202	So it's not a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u203	The text is crystal clear. I just don't trust this whole thing. I think it is a very disappointing debate. And on whether you think that is important enough to vote on it today, yes or no, I say: I would like the rulers to take political responsibility. I didn't see them do much today. I would like to come up with another motion in such a way that we will take steps to deal with this truth finding. I am afraid that proposal will not reach a majority either. And here I express my political appreciation for this whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u204	The motion has just been distributed, and so will you. But it says, "produces mistrust of the way things are going."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u205	Is this a motion of censure against the cabinet or against the minister, or not? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u206	I think I have been crystal clear in my contributions and interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u207	But not now. I'm just asking a simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u208	I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u209	I think this is crystal clear, and you can vote for it or against it. If you say: I like the way this has gone, I trust this, and I trust that this will not happen again, then you must form that judgment. I don't trust any of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u210	Mrs Karabulut, I think the question has to do with the following fact. It is common practice, however, that a majority of the Chamber should vote on it when a motion of censure is tabled against the cabinet or against the minister on the course of events. That is what Mr Sjoerdsma is asking. We can do it on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u211	From me, we can vote on it today. I think it is serious enough to vote on it today. I made the position perfectly clear. There's been a lie. There's been a lie. The facts have not been clarified. I have seen little responsibility among the rulers. There hasn't even been any basic excuses. I do not see that the proposals made by the cabinet will fundamentally change it. I see a broader pattern; may I express my distrust about this whole process?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u212	Mr. Van Helvert, you're not going to ask Mr. Sjoerdsma another way, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u213	No, but I want to know what I should be advising my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u214	I would advise you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u215	That's what you expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u216	Does the SP think that if this motion is adopted, the Cabinet, the Foreign Minister, or the Secretary of Defense should resign, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u217	It is up to the ministers themselves to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u218	It now seems that the SP wants to cancel the confidence in the cabinet, but does not dare because of group pressure or other pressure. But it's allowed here in the Chamber. If you want to say "I don't trust the cabinet," you have to say that. If you don't want to, you can say the same thing. But this is in between. Are you confident that the cabinet that's in there is going to do this right, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u219	The fact that I have little faith in this cabinet is no secret. The same goes for my party. But here's what I want to tell Mr Van Helvert. Almost everyone in this Chamber has said that the truth is the first victim in the war. We have received very large, intense conclusions, from the Americans, but also from that piece that has been investigated, namely that we have been lied to and that people have been pressured to present things more beautifully. We all know that it is not, as the Minister suggests, to make the Afghans better, ultimately, in the greater political judgment... or for the sake of Dutch security, but that it was because the Americans asked us, and the Cabinet and the Prime Minister did not want to say no at the time. I'm not okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u220	I suggest you proceed, because you have another motion, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u221	I will give Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Helvert another proposal, which they might be more sympathetic to. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Chamber has repeatedly been misinformed about the Dutch involvement in the war in Afghanistan;]] [[considers that concerns about this have not been adequately addressed;]] [[decides to conduct its own investigation into how communication to the Chamber on the war in Afghanistan relates to reality on the ground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-696]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u223	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I began with the question and the observation that the first consideration should always be that we do no harm, that we do no harm and that we should also look back at these military interventions in Afghanistan, in Baghlan, Uruzgan, Kunduz and now in Mazar. I do not think that the response to the Afghanistan Papers and the IOB evaluation should be merely cynicism. The answer should not be to throw everything into one heap, or to involve the lesson of one mission on another mission, or to pretend that 1,000 billion has been wasted, whereas of course we have not spent 1,000 billion. I think that is wrong, not only to the people who have done good work there with serious danger, but also to the lessons you really need to get out of this. Then we're taking the wrong lessons. The lessons are clear in themselves. It also wrongs the fact that we do not know the alternative history. What if we had left Afghanistan to the Taliban? What terrorist attacks could we have expected under Al-Qaeda? Or think of the scenario that we had chased out the Taliban but had not started reconstruction. What would the country have looked like? So learning lessons is important. I'd like to return to two lessons. One is to be honest. Parliament has been misinformed here. I think this debate is a yellow card for incorrect information, and I hope that the cabinet will accept this as well. This was never gonna happen again. I also welcome the commitment of Minister Blok to include this in the Council of Ministers and to come back to it. I expect this signal to be given clearly: there must be a fair report. I'm also confident this is going to happen. The minister was clear. The second lesson I want to take out is for the Chamber. Yeah, we need to engage. Yes, we must do this Article 100 procedure right. Yes, we may also impose conditions on that. However, we must be aware of the circumstances under which these conditions must be implemented. If we don't do that, we're gonna put men and women on an impossible job. And we shouldn't do that anymore, not even for the support of a mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u225	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I said that we have a big problem when the truth dies, in times of war, but certainly at other times. A major problem that affects the core of our parliamentary democracy, because it makes it difficult for us to control our role. A problem that does not help people's confidence in politics. I expect from the cabinet more than the Prime Minister's letter in response to the President's letter, which outlined that problem somewhat more broadly than just what we are discussing today. Then specifically about missions. I welcome the fact that both ministers have emphasised once again that they will stand up for their people, even if they are critical. Or perhaps I should say: just when they dare to be critical. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a short motion which seeks to give the Chamber a little more guidance in future evaluations. That motion is, I repeat, co-signed by my colleague Van Ojik. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in response to the post-mission assessment of the Integrated Police Training Mission in Kunduz, the Cabinet indicated that it would consider on a case-by-case basis whether and in what way an independent party could be involved, weighing feasibility and added value in conjunction;]] [[calls on the Government to develop, by 1 June of this year, a framework for review which will enable the involvement of an independent party to be determined or developed and to share this with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-697]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u227	Thank you, Mr President. I have a motion on the evaluation. I believe that the IOB study has produced some interesting conclusions. You should now say: how good it would have been if we had known that before. The fact that the Chamber has been misinformed is unacceptable. We've actually all said that. We can't let that happen. It did happen. Indeed, it is also important to see how we can prevent and correct what has not happened specifically in this mission in the future. That is why I have one more question for the rulers. How are the lessons learned by IOB and the recommendations made by IOB applicable to the ongoing missions? There are still military trainers in Afghanistan at the moment. We have also recently renewed the mission in Iraq, which the Chamber has once again agreed to. Mr. Chairman. On the evaluation a motion, along with colleague Kerstens of the Labour Party. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that reports on the Kunduz mission in Afghanistan provided a picture of the mission that was not in line with reality;]] [[Whereas objective and transparent information on foreign missions is crucial for the parliamentary control of the implementation of these missions;]] [[Whereas the Court of Justice received objective and transparent information only years after the completion of the mission;]] [[calls on the Government to review progress independently and on several occasions during missions, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Ojik and Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-698]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u228	Thank you, Madam President. At the request of the Lower House itself, an independent investigation was carried out by the IOB. There were three main themes. First of all, a top performance has been achieved by our women and men of Defense. There must also be transparent communication, about good news, but certainly also about bad news. Finally... I have just lost the third theme; I shall come back to that in a moment in my speech. We have mostly discussed transparent communication here, including bad news. We're all very upset about that in this room. At the moment when we in this Chamber want investigations to be open and honest at our own request and also report wrong things, the worst thing we can do is react with distrust when we bring out errors of our own. This creates an atmosphere where people say: I will not report it. On the contrary, we want mistakes to be reported. So I think it's a very bad answer. We say, when we see mistakes: this is very bad and this has to be different. That is why I am pleased that the Minister has already indicated that there is a new way of communicating transparently in the Ministry of Defence. That's exactly what we need. Mr Van Ojik asked me how I see the importance of an independent party. Since the IOB itself wonders whether it should not be done by independent people, it might be an idea to ask an independent party for that by default. Not because the IOB would not be independent, but because they themselves state: wouldn't you be looking outside the Ministry? So I'm sure I can see some good in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u229	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the reply by both ministers. Let me say once again our pride for those men and women who do that good work in difficult circumstances and in difficult areas. It is a pity that it has been about things that have not gone well or that have been presented more rosy than they were, because many successes have also been achieved. And we should celebrate it, and we should be proud of it and carry it out. In addition, lessons have been learned. There is a lot of criticism of the Americans, but they are now trying to train, train and deploy the Afghan army more, instead of letting American troops kick in the front door. So that's a lesson well learned. Transparency is essential. That's what we've been talking about. Thank you to both ministers who say that they are going to work seriously, because that is crucial. I'm assuming everyone's gonna feel free to report on what the case is like. Evaluations are crucial. First of all, to know how things went but also to learn for the future. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the House of Representatives should be informed as transparently and fully as possible of Article 100 missions and that evaluations are an important instrument in this regard;]] [[Whereas the House of Representatives should be able to trust that information from the government reflects the progress of these missions as accurately as possible;]] [[noting that the Kunduz post-mission assessment carried out independently has provided important insights in this respect;]] [[Whereas, during the course of an Article 100 mission, the implementation of evaluations is more complex in relation to confidentiality, security requirements and the interests of partners and allies;]] [[calls on the Government to involve by default an independent party in the execution of final reviews of Article 100 missions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bosman, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-699]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u231	The main reason for this is that the letter states that the final evaluation will be carried out on a case-by-case basis as to whether and how an independent party will be chosen. I do not think there should be any choice; that should be done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u232	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We see the Afghanistan Papers and the Kunduz report as a confirmation of what we have known at the PVV for years, namely that construction missions usually produce little or nothing, cost a lot of money and are not in Dutch interest. Our confidence in the government letters on military missions has fallen further, and that confidence cannot be restored quickly, especially if this cabinet would continue to carry on missions like Afghanistan and the government letters are considered sales brochures for missions. That would be a policy that the military and taxpayers should no longer be burdened with. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that military and development aid to Afghanistan has not, or has not yet, produced any future-proof results in the period from 2002 onwards;]] [[Whereas, in view of the current situation in Afghanistan, no improvement can be expected in this respect;]] [[calls on the Government to stop all military and development aid for Afghanistan and to bring soldiers and police officers directly back home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-700]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u234	Mr. Chairman. Afghanistan policy has cost taxpayers a great deal of money, money that has also been spent while misleading information has been involved. The PVV now wants the total account to be drawn up. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, after 19 years of war, a lasting inclusive peace in Afghanistan is far away;]] [[Considers that an independent organisation should conduct a comprehensive examination of the Afghanistan policy in relation to the costs incurred;]] [[Calls on the General Court to examine what the Dutch Afghanistan policy has cost the treasury from 2002 to date, and also invites the General Court to verify whether this amount has been lawfully spent and spent effectively to achieve a sustainable inclusive peace,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-701]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u235	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karabulut's two motions are addressed to the Chamber and not to the government, so I do not rule on them. Mr Sjoerdsma gave a good summary of the debate and of the government's commitment. Mr Kerstens has in part No. 697 tabled a motion, together with Mr Van Ojik, requesting the development of a review framework for the involvement of an independent party. That is, of course, in line with the other motions that we are asking for. The Cabinet will be happy to do that. So we leave this motion to the House's judgment. Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kerstens asked in the motion for a resolution on item No. 698 and to inform the Court of Justice of the progress made during missions independently and on several occasions. It is now practice on longer missions to send interim evaluations to the Chamber in May. In mid-term reporting, involving an independent party also leads to major practical problems. That is what Mr Bosman pointed out. The same problems, which I described in the first term, will then be even more urgent. That's the part of inevitably confidential operational information. On a military mission, you often cannot reveal exactly how you are going to deploy people and the reluctance of allies will be even greater. So because of that part, I'm gonna have to dissuade this motion. But I can accept Mr Bosman's motion in respect of item No. 699, together with the same signatories and also Mr Van Helvert and Mr Sjoerdsma, leave the Chamber to judge, because it finds the right balance between the independent party at the end and the restrictions we have in the interim. I can move on, but I think Mr Van Ojik has a question about his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u237	I have that impression, too. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u238	If you'll excuse me. Now we get a lot of information from independent ex post evaluations. The idea behind this motion is that we should at least, I think, all benefit if we were to get that information earlier, so that, in that interaction between the cabinet and the Chamber that we were discussing today, we could adjust earlier. So I think it's actually, to be honest, a bit of a pity if the word "independent" is the reason for the Minister to say: then I can't move... Can I ask the Minister to reconsider, or to come back to how this could be done? Because that was certainly the main line of this debate. Now we hear something afterward. How good wouldn't it be if we heard that during the mission, so we could adjust during the mission? How can you be sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u239	Thank you. Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u240	I would like to say that where we have just promised Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Ojik on the other motion that we would like to come up with a review framework, Mr Bijleveld, and I will see how you can do better in the meantime. But in the context of being very clear during the debate about what can or cannot be done, I made it clear during the first period that we are in favour of independent participation in an evaluation. But I also indicated what limitations I saw because of confidentiality and allies. I see it very strongly with "in the meantime." Then I have to be honest about that, too. That leads to the weighing of this motion. I am therefore afraid that my judgement on this motion should be at this point in time that I am betraying it. I would like to say to you that perhaps you would even like to hold the motion, in response to the previous motion, that we will go into the review framework to see what we can improve on the interim evaluations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u241	We're not gonna negotiate the holding of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u242	No, but with that commitment, I'd be happy to hold my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u243	Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u244	I appreciate that. The motion in part No. 699 I had given judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr De Roon asked the government to stop all activities in Afghanistan. This motion I must advise against. I firmly believe that this would not only be bad for Afghanistan, but also for the Netherlands, because it could make Afghanistan a hotbed of terrorism again and we will undoubtedly see a greater number of people fleeing Afghanistan and heading for Europe and the Netherlands. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 701 concerns a request to the General Court of Auditors. I don't have to judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u245	Yeah, that's up to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u246	Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u247	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u248	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. For now, I shall suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister, the Minister of Defence and the MPs.
