ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u1	The next item is the debate on the new support package. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for Finance. Also welcome to the spokesmen and the people who are following this debate from the public gallery or from home. Before I give the floor to Mr Asscher, I propose that I allow two interruptions in the first term. I see Mr. De Jong looking at me. That's two interruptions in two; or four questions, that's okay. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. When we talked here about the third support package, we could still go to the pub together and we were still invited to birthday parties. Then that second wave was a horror scenario, which was discussed then, but now we're in it. Now we're in that second wave and in that second partial lockdown. Despite billions of aid, unprecedented billions of aid, for companies, hundreds of people lose their jobs every day and businesses are destroyed every day. It's a nightmare for the people who work there to watch the company they've been working on their lives disappear. Soon, at 7:00 p.m., there will be another press conference. You have also heard it back: there is a lot of people looking at it with fear and trembling, who have gathered courage each time, have worked out their walkways and have invented something to keep them open, but who really are getting bored with and no rope can tie to what is coming to them now. So I would like to call on the cabinet to tell us a very clear story about how we can control Corona, but that would also be what the roadmap would be for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. When, at what number of infections, can a hospitality store open again? When can people start again? When can people dare to take another step? Mr. Chairman. Unemployment should not be seen as an individual problem in a crisis like this. I have said it more often. It's a collective problem. This happens to us as a country. That means helping people through, supporting people, helping people from work to work. That is why I have requested this debate. I think that, despite the unprecedented support, we need to do more, because the situation requires it. We need to do more to save those jobs and to save those healthy companies. What am I thinking? First of all, crisis jobs. This crisis is particularly marked by the fact that a lot of people are losing their jobs, but that there are also serious shortages in work that are needed to combat the crisis, such as places at the GGD, the boas, supporters in the care sector and supporters in education, in order to keep schools safe and open in this complex situation. So my call would be: create those crisis jobs and do so quickly. I saw it coming back in the letter as an idea, but I would say: make it concrete and draw money out of it. Then you can offer people an alternative: get to work, we need you, your contribution matters. The second thing I would like to propose is that there should be more specific, more extensive support for those companies which are now unable to operate because of the public authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u3	I share the point that we would like people to stay at work, but I am going to take that question explicitly from it. I will also ask Minister Koolmees later that these people are simply paid a wage and not working with benefits. I assume that's not the PvdA's plea either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u4	No. I haven't seen anyone's suggestion of that level of assistance. No, jobs are jobs. You can create them now, and we need them very much. Of course, you have to pay people a decent wage, because that's what they deserve. They're also gonna do some very important work for all of us if we can. No, jobs are jobs. Crisis jobs need to be created now. The second proposal I wanted to make is an extension of the support. Much is already happening, but I would like to ask the Cabinet, for example, to reflect on how they deal with smaller SMEs with less than 50 employees in Germany, where they compensate for a larger proportion of their turnover. I would like to ask the cabinet to respond to the proposals made by the catering industry to help the small catering companies where it is no longer really necessary to do so. I would ask the Cabinet to reflect on the position of self-employed people who are not eligible for support by the partner test. And I know it's not meant for the dentist's partner, but there are a lot of families with two self-employed people or with a self-employed person and a small part-time job that aren't going to live right now. Just make sure you have an income limit on the partner test so you can get that self-employed guy through it. Three. This is not the time to spread more uncertainty about entrepreneurs. So get rid of the idea that wage support will be reduced from January onwards, which is still the cabinet's plan! Because it leads to reorganisations being put in place. It leads to additional uncertainty for entrepreneurs. Don't do that, because if we don't watch out, it's gonna be a long quackwinter. Four. Help people who need to go into isolation. Help them with income support. I know how hard it is. Work with vouchers, ask municipalities to help. Make sure they're not forced to take their vacation days. 'Cause we really need them. And five, finally. Stop the false contradiction between economics and health. If we have seen something in the last few months, it is that that virus must remain under control for our health, the health of our elderly, the health of our vulnerable and our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Aartsen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u6	Madam President. I think it is a complicated time to have this debate. We are talking about the cabinet's additions to the third package of aid, which stem from the measures announced a week or three ago. But as Mr Asscher said, it was a different time at the time, at least when we talked about it. Most Dutch people are currently getting ready for the press conference in a number of hours, with possible new measures. The adjustments made to the support package will hopefully contribute to the piloting of entrepreneurs through the crisis. However, it feels a bit like this additional package of support has been overtaken by the threat of the cabinet's possible new measures in the press conference. I would simply like to start with an appeal to the cabinet, should any new stricter measures be adopted this evening. This is the call, as they have done on a number of occasions over the past period, for these stricter or longer measures to be considered in particular, together with entrepreneurs, together with trade unions, whether this ongoing aid package with the additions is still sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u7	We already know that it is not enough. We're all getting those signals. I think that the whole Chamber is getting signals from, for example, a sector such as the catering industry or the event industry, that it is not enough. Still, I see an opening. I would like to ask the following question. This cabinet intends to phase out the aid measures in January. Can Mr Aartsen here today undertake to support the proposal to withdraw these austerities for the first quarter of 2021, i.e. not to allow them to continue? Can he support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u8	I don't know if I can support it that much, but I think the chances of those austerities going on are very, very, very small.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u9	Then I'd like butter with the fish. I would like to table a motion today, as I have done before, to remove those austerities from the table. If the VVD says here today that it is wondering whether they are going to be there, it would help if Mr Aartsen, a member of a party represented in the cabinet, could support the opposition not only to think it but also to realize it. Can Mr Aartsen support the simple motion to remove the austerities, yes or no? If it is a 'yes', then a lot of entrepreneurs, and a lot of employees, will be helped. If it is a "no," then there is a lot of uncertainty for that entrepreneur and that employee. Can he support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u10	Let me outline the dilemma why I couldn't say "yes" or "no" so one-two-three now. I would first like to see what measures will be taken in the near future. On the basis of this, I should like to ask the Cabinet in the broadest sense to consider what measures are being taken. Not only the planned measures, possibly in January, but also, above all, the measures already under way. What we have now is an addition to the package that has been presented, but we all feel that something may need to change. I would therefore like to take a broad look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u11	Third question, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u12	Finally. There's no time. There's no time to lose. There are hundreds of thousands of jobs at stake. I don't know how many companies are at stake. In fact, I've been in touch with the catering industry today and they just indicate that the bankruptcy applications and the questions about how to continue or prevent bankruptcy... I mean, it's raining in the hospitality industry right now. For example, there is no time to lose in the catering industry. There is therefore no time to place it in a broader context. If more or less is needed in a moment, that can always be looked at. But you can now make a promise to all those hardworking Dutch people that we will keep these austerities off the table? Surely there is no legitimate reason to have more bankruptcies and risk even more jobs than is currently the case? If you really want, you have the key in your hands. Then take it and make sure that hundreds of thousands of jobs are largely protected and many entrepreneurs are not in even greater uncertainty. There's no time to lose. Pick up the key.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u13	Mr De Jong and I are genuinely pulling the same string. I think we want to avoid this, but I think you also want to say what can be done. I think it would be wise to send the cabinet along with that and to point out: weigh up the measures that will be taken in a moment. How long will it take? What sectors are they going to apply to? If you're not going to let something go, of course you should know what you're falling back on. That must not then be poured into concrete again, because I do not know if they would benefit from the fallback option that would then come. Maybe we should do more than that relapse option. I sincerely believe that after tonight, when the measures are known and we know how long they are going to take... I think that we should look sincerely at whether they are sufficient, what sectors they apply to and whether there should not be more than what was planned and what we may now have as a relapse option. We're really pulling the same rope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u14	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u15	My final question, Mr President, because this is an extremely important point for all those entrepreneurs. You can say that you are sure that the cabinet will be looking at it shortly, but letters have been sent that indicate that there is a look and no letter has been sent to the Chamber indicating that the austerities will be off the table in January. It was not sent to the Chamber and even after today there is no chance of that happening. It might be possible and then the PVV is very happy, but I just want to see today if we can get rid of the parties that are represented here because we are controlling the cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If that's what you want as a VVD, you can support it. Then it just happens today. If you don't, then we still have to question your intentions. The hardworking Dutchman and the entrepreneur have nothing to do with it if you say: I want to, but we have to think about it for a while. Business must be done today for hundreds of thousands of jobs and for entrepreneurs. If you don't, you'll leave the entrepreneur and the employee in the lurch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u16	I welcomed Mr De Jong's constructive attitude. I do not think this comment on the intentions is correct. I believe that everyone here, from left to right, is working extremely hard to keep those entrepreneurs and those jobs in their tracks. You can say that you want to take things off the table, but at least as a VVD we want to take the initiative, whether or not with a motion, to see what we can put on the table. You can take something off the table, but I think the discussion should be: what do we put on the table? Then we need to know what the measures are coming. On this basis, the cabinet must, as far as I am concerned, come forward very quickly with the trade unions and the employers' organizations and say: what are we putting on the table? Then we can test if it's enough. Again, we pull the same rope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u17	What we are putting on the table and have already put on the table several times is support of 90% of labour costs, as was also the case in the first aid package. At the beginning of the second wave, in September, we held the debate on the third aid package. Then you said: we need to get to normalization. Companies had to adapt to the new situation and normalize. We had to cut the support. You cut that aid down, because the aid went from 90% to 80% and goes to 70% in January. Has the VVD now come to the understanding that the last few weeks have already demonstrated the need for the aid package not to be phased out, but to be built up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u18	I get your point, Mr. Van Kent. The situation we had at the time was, of course, a different one. When you talk about "adapting to a normal situation," that was a situation where you could turn with relative limitations, in many cases. Entrepreneurs were wondering: can I reduce my costs, with limited support can I still keep my pants down and stay healthy? Let's face it, we don't have a normal situation right now. The government is now forcing a lot of companies to be obligated to shut down. Maybe more companies and sectors will join them. So we do not have a normal situation. Then I think it is logical that there should be a different aid package than what we had. That is why my appeal to the cabinet is: "Come forward with a new weighting of the support package, based on the measures that may come this evening. Is that enough or should you do more or less?" I think we know the answer, which is that it will probably be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u19	But we also had this discussion at the end of September. The VVD said: "We need to normalize. Businesses have to go bankrupt or fire employees. They better start normalizing, because we're gonna take down that NOW." I understand that the VVD sent the economic spokesperson here, because the VVD is mainly talking about the TVL, about the support packages for employers. But what matters to me is that we offer these employees security and perspective, that we are honest with them and say: the government shuts down companies... I see Mr Wiebes laughing, but it's not funny. It's not funny. The government here decides that companies should close the doors and at the same time says: the wage support we offer you will be reduced. This means that companies either go bankrupt or are going to fire people, while it is the government that ordered these employers to close the doors. The question to the VVD is: is your message to those entrepreneurs "go normalize, fire your people and go bankrupt," or is the message from the VVD "we made a mistake, because we shouldn't have cut the support package; we have seen that in recent months and we are therefore withdrawing it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u20	With us in Brabant we always say: afterward it is nice to live. I think the same applies to this. No, the normalization...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u21	Then you're seeing blind. Then you're blind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u22	You mentioned the normalization I was talking about at the time. The only measure still in force at that time was that the last round should not go on. In the meantime, of course, we are a lot further. Sincerely, a lot of entrepreneurs are sitting with fear and trembling watching right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u23	Then you were really blind. Then you were really blind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u24	With fear and trembling, many entrepreneurs are looking at the extra measures that are going to be taken tonight. Then I think it's a real appeal from the VVD, but I think it's also broader, not to go crazy about what it was like when the last round was abolished, but to say: Cabinet, take a look, with entrepreneurs and employees, what is needed right away and whether it's really enough. I think that is a decent and real appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u25	The VVD said here at the end of September, when the number of infections was on the rise: the phasing out of these arrangements is a good idea, because there needs to be normalization. Now we are a few weeks away and the VVD says: yes, we should not look back; we should look forward. But in that perspective, the VVD is not prepared to say to these entrepreneurs here: we are not going to reduce those aid packages. Thus the VVD is really becoming the enemy of entrepreneurs and the enemy of employees in the Netherlands. As a government party, you can instruct this government here to stop phasing out those packages of aid and start building those packages of aid. That is what entrepreneurs and employees need. This should be advocated by the VVD here, instead of defending the swaggering, weak cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u26	I think this is really inappropriate. We're having a proper debate here. You can criticize those support packages, even if you like, preferably criticism that we can do something with. Whoever was talking for me was talking about things we could talk about. You can work with that. But to put people here like they're the enemy and the instigators of what's happening... Sorry, I think that's really inappropriate. I would like to make a proper appeal to the cabinet: there may be measures in the coming months; see if that is enough to get entrepreneurs and jobs through, as we have been doing for eight months with complete conviction. Can things be better? Oh, yeah. We'd love to talk about that. But please don't put me away like I'm the enemy of entrepreneurs here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u27	Then I'll go see Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u28	I do understand the emotions of my colleagues, because at least the parties who are speaking to you today have argued in favour of keeping that 90% of the NOW. I have just heard Mr Aartsen say that the predecessor was at least constructive. I would like to make a plea that I made to the Corona debate and that was said: you must do so next week. So that's what I'm gonna do now, and maybe I can get you into that. Our proposal would be that if we see an entrepreneur gets caught up, he only gets paid 80% of his wage costs and he could put his employees in a place where they can give an extra hand, which will then pay 100%, because they also do something good for society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u29	I heard Mrs Van Brenk say it earlier in that debate. I think it's an interesting idea. I don't know if it's possible. That is always the disadvantage with these arrangements. Then I'll look at Minister Koolmees again, in a moment. I think it's an interesting idea. I will say a few words about it in my own contribution. With me in Breda, we also saw that entrepreneurs picked up the phone themselves and said to a large healthcare institution: "We have people and they can do things. Then we can see what they can do first. They can't put syringes or take care of people. We shouldn't let them do that either, but let's go around the table and see what they can do." We could do that without state aid, but I think it makes perfect sense to see how you can reward those people. So thank you for your constructive contribution and let's see if we can put that together into a nice plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u30	Of course, it's about 80% or 90% NOW. Mr Aartsen has just said that there are entrepreneurs who have found other methods to generate some revenue. In the restaurant, you can go and deliver and stuff. But yes, the catering industry closed while only 2% of the infections occurred in the catering industry. There is therefore, in fact, no basis for the measure taken. Does Mr Aartsen agree with me that if there is, in fact, no valid reason for this, and the government does take such a measure, then 100% must be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u31	In my view, it is difficult for anyone who looks at the figures to maintain that the measures taken are not well founded. I think we should just be honest about that. There is simply a bitter need for such measures. Are they funny? No, absolutely not. They are urgently needed to relieve the burden of care and to reduce those contamination rates as far as we are concerned. And in the meantime, we need to ensure that those entrepreneurs stay in their feet, that those jobs are preserved. We have a support package for that. My question to the cabinet, which I think is a fair question, is whether this is entirely sufficient to ensure that new measures may be introduced which are going to take a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u32	I do not understand what Mr Aartsen does not understand about 2%, 2.5%, 2.6%. That is so little that the basis for this measure is lacking. Well, then I'd like to ask you something. If your property is expropriated by the government because it is somehow necessary, do you expect a normal compensation: 100% of what your damage is? Now, for a certain reason, damage is being done to the catering industry. Then it's normal that just 100% of the damage is compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u33	Let me say first of all that Mr Van Haga and I, and we, have other advisers on what is needed to contain this virus. That's one. I think we should look at what we need to do to get these entrepreneurs through, to support them with their expenses, to support them with their fixed burdens and all kinds of other measures. You can never pay people 100% for everything and do 100% for everyone, but you can at least strive to do it right. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet is quick to table with entrepreneurs and with the trade unions to see what is needed to keep as many entrepreneurs and jobs as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u34	This is more a matter of principle. If damage is done, no matter what the reason is, do you think it should be compensated? The OMT didn't even recommend closing down the catering business. The cabinet has therefore decided on other grounds to do so. That 2.6% is hard. The OMT advice is tough. The cabinet has done some damage. Then the point of principle is, is that the question I am asking you is whether you think that 100% can be compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u35	The OMT advised on this and I will come back to that in a moment to investigate creative solutions and options to keep restaurants open. I support that. I think that is sensible, and I hope that research will be carried out soon. We cannot do that right away tomorrow, because the numbers of infection and the numbers in the care are far too bad for that. But we'd like to have it ready for when things get better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u36	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u37	I'll file a motion and I'm counting on support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u38	You can count on support when it comes to a reweighting of the aid measures, because I think that will unfortunately be necessary for the situation in the near future. Mr. Chairman. We are trying to hit the virus with a big hammer, but unfortunately that hammer not only hits the virus but also the entrepreneurs. It is good that there is therefore a large support package ready to help entrepreneurs through this partial lockdown. The basis of the third support package, the NOW and the TVL, is breathing and can rise to 11 billion, as we hear from the cabinet. And yet it is good that on top of the package that was already there are a number of measures and improvements, specifically for the four sectors that were hit hard: catering, culture, events and sport. But I think it's also wise to say goodbye to the SBI codes. We have still experienced quite some problems with that in recent times. I am glad that there is a content of what I myself called the "Doornroepjesgeld." At the same time, I have just said that we have the dilemma of how long these measures will last. We're still in uncertainty for a moment, but I don't think you need to be a psychic to feel that there's going to be measures that are going to take even longer and come harder. We're really worried about that, so let's just say that. In the spring many entrepreneurs still had buffers. They had savings, pension pots and loans, which are just in their business right now. In the case of new and longer measures, I want the Cabinet, together with those entrepreneurs and the trade unions, to take a good look at what is needed to ensure that it is sufficient. Of course, that depends on how long it takes and how hard it is, but I think it's really wise to keep in mind that the situation is different from the first lockdown. I have a number of specific questions on this specific support package. Is there going to be any possibility of postponing taxes after 1 October? It was closed on October 1st and on October 13th came the partial lockdown. Do the criteria mentioned apply when it comes to the event module all on top of each other? And if so, how do we prevent this from being a dead sparrow for them? We really shouldn't want that with each other. Are entrepreneurs who started in the first quarter of 2020 excluded or excluded from the schemes? We regularly hear from the cabinet that they are covered, but we still get signals that there is something wrong with the reference months. I would like to hear an answer from the cabinet. Is the cabinet also willing to engage with banks and landlords to ensure that there are many more payment breaks if this lockdown is going to last longer? We're getting excited about the idea of working on crisis jobs. I mentioned the situation with me in Breda, but we also saw it come by in Emmen. How fantastic is it that catering staff and staff from the event industry can help in situations in education, care and enforcement, if necessary? I wonder how the cabinet wants to give that space and how it wants to support it. Finally, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u39	You have 13 seconds left. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u40	Just at that point. I am very happy with what the VVD says here: we must now be creative and unorthodox. But let's speed it up. Let's give the cabinet an objective and make sure it can spend the money, because I think you can create 10,000 of those crisis jobs. You help entrepreneurs with that and the sectors that are now cracking under the corona violence. It's a matter of making pace now. We won't be needing the press conference later. We could do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u41	Mr Asscher and I agree: we can do that now. But I'm especially curious about the how-ask. I see that things are going well in a lot of places, but there are also all kinds of questions about what happens next with premiums and other things that you don't normally deal with as simple entrepreneurs or as an employed person. So I would also like to be careful that we get a lot of initiatives out of our way. But I think these are the solutions that we really need in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. I have 23 seconds, if you'll allow me. Entrepreneurs yearn for perspective, but that's impossible to give. We cannot tell each other here when entrepreneurs can open up again or when we can return to the old normal, but we must not sit still. For example, we need those field labs. Meanwhile, we need to see what we can do now to have smart plans ready to make things possible. I actually have three questions for the cabinet: what about these field labs, when can we get the first RIVM opinions on the first field lab programs and when can we see the OMT opinion on the research into the restaurants? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u42	Thank you for your contribution. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have a bit of a wonderful situation, a wonderful debate. We are talking about the additional support measures proposed by the Cabinet, and we all know that there will be a press conference at 7 p.m. tonight in which, if we believe the media, additional measures will most likely be taken, which will allow even more companies, even more people to be less likely to get into trouble. I would like to start with this, also because I assume that a number of government officials will be able to respond after that press conference and answer my questions. Because there are two points that are very important to us as GroenLinks. This concerns sectors which are likely to be further restricted tonight, for example the cultural sector. Is the government prepared to continue to respond to the cultural sector on the basis of the measures taken this evening, for example? The second point concerns the austerity of the NOW, which is scheduled for 1 January. That is just what the debate was about between several colleagues. I fully understand that the cabinet indicated a few months ago: we are going to wait until December to see if this austerity should continue by January. But because of the second wave, which we are now in, and because of the additional measures that are to come tonight, we all know that austerity is a very bad idea. That is why we must already give entrepreneurs and workers the assurance that it is not going to get any worse. I think it needs to get better on a number of points, but it should at least not get worse. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? In any case, we could count on our support, as all the packages have been able to count on the support of GroenLinks to date, because we need to get through this crisis together. Mr. Chairman. What I am seriously concerned about, because I think that the cabinet has far too little attention to it, are the people who, despite all our good intentions, have no income anymore while the accounts accumulate. We receive more and more messages in our mailbox, people call us about it, but we also read it in the media, for example: it becomes very clear that a lot of people are out of buffers. If, on the one hand, we say that we want to help businesses and entrepreneurs through this terrible time. The perspective now is that sometime next six months there will be a vaccine, and then we need to get back to normal as soon as possible. Then why do we allow hundreds of thousands of Dutch people to sell their cars or perhaps even their homes? That they can't pay the bills anymore, maybe the groceries, their kids' sports club, and what else do I know? Isn't it just hard to organise support for business and support for people who, despite all their efforts, have no income? I wonder if the cabinet is prepared to take that step, also because the FNV is now strongly advocating it. I believe that the cabinet, especially at this time, attaches enormous importance to cooperation in the polder. We as GroenLinks have been calling for a crisis income for seven or eight months, but you hear that noise is getting stronger and stronger. Is the cabinet willing to take a serious look at that? I don't really care how we arrange it. I see a hundred ways of doing it as long as something is arranged. I also know it's complicated, but I really think we should do it, otherwise the most vulnerable people will pay the bill for this crisis. Mr. Chairman. My final point is in line with this. It's about the quarantine fee. To fight the virus, we all want people to be quarantined, but for one, it's just easier than for the other. If you have a permanent contract, you just do it, but if you don't, and if you can't pay your bills, it's easy for us to talk. We really think there should be a quarantine fee. I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u44	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking here about the aid package 3.2. This quarter is expected to receive an additional EUR 10 billion, for this package and for the additional measures for, for example, catering and events, and for the much greater appeal made by the recent tightening-up of support measures for the wages and fixed costs of businesses. At the same time, we are having this debate at an extremely complex time. I read everywhere that we get tightening in two and a half hours, but I don't know what they are yet. I find that rather uncomfortable. Not to mention the tightening of the lockdown for the catering industry, which was announced last week between the nose and the lips. I also exchanged this last week in the debate with the Prime Minister. From us came a very administrative reaction, but the essence was that I really thought that was just unwise. I really hope that communication gets better and doesn't go that way anymore, because I found it extremely unfortunate that a lot of entrepreneurs heard that they were probably closing for weeks longer. As far as I'm concerned, the flipping in the cabinet's communication that night didn't deserve a beauty prize. Mr. Chairman. Assuming that there will be additional restrictions and knowing that the current restrictions will at least take longer, I would like to call on the Cabinet to come forward with a package 3.2 as soon as possible and in consultation with employers and employees, so that we act quickly when these tightening-ups occur. So far, the Cabinet has done so very well. It does so on a unified basis, also in cooperation with the social partners, and fortunately with broad support in this Chamber. It's important that we go through with it. So my question to the cabinet is whether we can see something like this quickly. There are indeed a number of important questions here, as my colleague has said. Which sectors should we help extra? How do we deal with the date of January 1st? A number of colleagues asked whether it would still be appropriate to continue with the austerity of the package, although there is still a great deal of support for it, but we are still talking about austerity, and when it is made clear to entrepreneurs and workers. For beware: we do these things not only for entrepreneurs; we do them above all so that they can also keep their people in service. Many measures expire on or around 1 January. Are we gonna extend it? I've already arranged with Mrs Lodder that you don't have to pay your taxes straight away, but how are we going to deal with measures that would otherwise end around the turn of the year? I also think it is important to clarify this quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u46	I have a simple question. I have also referred this to D66 on several occasions, but I hope that progress has been made. Does D66 still believe that the partner test should apply? That means that, for example, if you work in the travel industry and you have a partner who works a hairdressing salon, you no longer have the right to support because you have a partner with income. The first support package did not include that partner test, but it was introduced afterwards. Does D66 still believe that it should continue to exist, thereby excluding these people from support, or is there a progressive understanding and does D66 want to meet these people now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u47	Mr Van Kent has done so before, in my view, with Mr Aartsen. Let's a. don't pretend there's no support at all, and b. we're really in a new situation. That raises the question of whether you should weigh this again. Mr Van Kent is quite right about that. I would now like to come to the subject of self-employed workers. I am therefore grateful to take this opportunity to do so in the event of this interruption. I assume that the cabinet, when it looks at what extra is needed, is also looking at where to do with income support. Together with my colleague Gijs van Dijk I have done things about flexworkers before. That is very complex and far from ideal. For the self-employed, we postponed the capital test until at least 1 April. That's wise. As far as I am concerned, we have to look at everything again, also depending on the package that is coming. And yes, that may also be that you are going to look at thezzp measures. In fact, I wanted to ask that question. I asked earlier whether there is really no tailor-made approach to this partner test, for example to a certain income. I heard Mr Asscher ask the same question. My question is also: what can be done about customization? So far, there seemed to be little to do. I'm gonna ask you again, and I'm not gonna ask you again for nothing. Mr Van Kent knows that this measure is also very difficult for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u48	I actually think Mr Van Weyenberg's reaction is very positive. He states: if more stringent measures are to be taken, we must look at everything and also see whether we can provide income support and whether the partner test forzzp'ers within the Tozo can still be adjusted or can be totally or partially withdrawn. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg whether D66 is prepared to see if, for example, we can make adjustments to the Participation Act, because the crooked situation betweenzzp'ers and people in the assistance is still growing. I also want the partner test at the Tozo to go off the table, but the difference with the assistance is getting very big. Is Mr Van Weyenberg prepared to take this seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u49	In fact, that was one of the arguments for the measures taken earlier: that it should also be explained to people who, for example, came into the assistance after a short period of time. I find it very difficult, because I have no idea what is coming and how much impact it will have on a lot of workers. I can't estimate it. What is happening now is already far-reaching. I don't know how much longer it's gonna take and how wide it's gonna get. So I'm asking the Cabinet to take it in width. I also mention income security. Previously, on the previous support package, I have been delighted to support your amendments on more room for tailor-made work in the municipalities. That's what we did to the whole room, I think. I therefore call on the Cabinet to look in the broadest possible direction, without prejudicing itself on a very specific measure, because at least I have two and a half hours missing, because I simply do not know what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u50	We all don't know that, except for the three gentlemen in box K, but I'm sure they won't tell us before then. But for us, it is very important that everything is negotiable. What we have noticed a little over the past seven months in discussions on the support package and income security is that it is always easier to come up with something new, like the Tozo forzzp'ers, and to work on it, than to make adjustments to the Participation Act. It is also a sensitive subject here in the Chamber, because parties are completely different in it. But does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that we should also look very seriously at this and that there is no taboo when we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u51	I note that in the past Mr Smeulders has succeeded in getting things done in the discussions and arrangements with the cabinet. It's very complicated. It affects the whole social security system very quickly. Together with Mr Gijs van Dijk, I have urged the Minister to do something about TOFA. That was very complicated, too. So I have no taboos, but I do not think the cabinet has any taboos either. I'm not saying I'm for anything, but we've done what we needed and helped unprecedented numbers of people sitting there with that. These were millions of workers, hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs and hundreds of thousands of self-employed people. I always want to look at everything, but it must all be possible, I say to Mr Smeulders. Can we get it done in the execution? That is often one of the greatest bottlenecks at the moment, whatever brilliant idea we have, you or me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u53	The letter we have already received identifies the crisis jobs, and I find that very interesting. An unemployed self-employed person in music, for example, may be able to jump into a school. Of course not as a teacher; that's a profession and that's what you've learned. But that way you can make sure that classes don't have to go home and do what makes sense. I give every child more art and culture in school than is often possible now. But it also applies to the test capacity and in the care. I read beautiful intentions, but it is now important to turn those intentions into concrete actions. So when are the concrete effects coming? I've heard colleagues ask that too. I believe that we support the cabinet in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u54	That is where a Chamber-wide desire arises to make this possible. We have previously proposed the creation of 10,000 of these crisis jobs. We think that would cost half a billion dollars, but you're investing in keeping people at work and fighting the pandemic. Would that be an option for D66, as far as you're concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u55	Yeah, I saw it in the cabinet's own letter. It says, "We're gonna do it, but we're gonna see how." Mr Asscher said: that is good, but make it fast. I fully agree with that. In all honesty: whether there should be 5,000, 10,000 or 20,000, I really don't dare say that. But where we can help fill social needs and, for example, ensure that schools remain open and classes do not have to go home, Mr Asscher and I find each other very quickly. Or there's 10,000 or 8,000 or 12,000? It's very difficult for me. For me: what can, what is necessary and what is useful. If that's 20,000, I'm okay with it. I sincerely cannot judge what can and works there, I say to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u57	Let the sky be the limit, I say to Mr Asscher. Mr. Chairman. Then the quarantine package... I see the Minister is now completely enthusiastic, Mr. Chairman. I like that. I'm offering a billion, Mr. Asscher! For the viewers at home, I say this now that the Minister of Finance has left the premises and the other two ministers encourage me to do business now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u58	He'll be right back. He's gone for a while because of another important obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u59	Yeah, that's why you're gonna have to talk fast, Mr. Chairman, to get it done quickly! Mr. Chairman. Then the quarantine package, as long as we're talking about money. I read that people are thinking about how to seduce people to actually do that quarantine. Because that is very important to prevent the spread of the virus. There are ideas about vouchers. My group really calls on the cabinet to come forward with concrete proposals so that we can also help people to get through that quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u60	I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg mentioned this because it did not fit in with my four minutes. Does he share my view that we should not only look at the people themselves who need to be quarantined, but that we should also look at entrepreneurs who need to miss their people for unnecessarily long? I believe that it should be a broad package, because there are negative financial incentives on all sides, which puts increasing pressure on quarantine policy, I am afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u61	I think there are two things. How do we ensure that we give people a little support in order to comply with that profound quarantine obligation? I also hope that we will test faster and faster and that we will see how we can make that quarantine period as short as possible in a responsible way. In addition, we need to look at how we deal with self-employed or employers who are confronted with this. I understand that it is all very complicated, but I am doing an incentive for that search, as well as I am doing an incentive in relation to that investigation of the restaurants that Mr Aartsen was right to ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u62	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u63	I'm on it. Two last sentences. A motion was adopted more than an hour ago which states that if there are any further lockdown-like measures, it cannot be that shopkeepers such as bakers, butchers, vegetable farmers and liquor stores should close down while the supermarket is open. That motion has been passed. I assume that the cabinet will take it for granted. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say one more thing about the following. It's not exactly support, but still. Nothing is almost more socially relevant than not only saving businesses and jobs, but also keeping the schools open. Let us do everything in our power to do so and make every effort to do so. I refer to Mr Asscher's motion and myself on testing. Because kids and their parents deserve us to do everything we can to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u64	I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u65	Mr President, thank you very much. Clap after blow is what hardworking entrepreneurs and employees face. There's total uncertainty. The corona crisis has a huge impact on the lives of millions of Dutch people. You would only be that hard-working entrepreneur who ended up in a deep valley after the first wave, did everything in the summer to get back on his feet and now, after the accumulated buffers have been used up, has to close his business out of his debt again and face great uncertainty again. You'd just be that hardworking employee who lost his job overnight and doesn't know how to make ends meet with his family at the end of the month, how to pay for the groceries and how to keep the family running. Maybe he'll even have to put himself in debt to survive. Mr. Chairman. In all honesty, I have the impression that few people here in the Chamber really understand what that means in practice. Because if they did understand, they would do everything in their power to protect the jobs and incomes of all those Dutch people, and that is not the case. Of course, all those entrepreneurs and employees are happy with any support they receive; every euro less loss is a chance to survive longer. But it can't be that this cabinet is continuing its plans to reduce the emergency measures. Hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake. Then the cabinet cannot continue to take the risk of further bankruptcies, even more job losses and therefore even more uncertainty among all those people who have not asked for this at all. Just look at the municipality of Groningen. Who expects the consequences of this second wave to be harder than those of the first wave. They're counting on 20% more people in welfare. SME-Netherlands expects a snowball of bankruptcies. There are entrepreneurs who not only lose their business, but also go bankrupt personally. Workers who were already struggling for the corona crisis are now facing an extra difficult time. We can't let this happen, but it's gonna happen if we don't do something. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, we must protect the jobs and incomes of millions of Dutch people. The PVV therefore proposes to remove the planned austerities for the third aid package. So we should not cut the NOW fee and not increase the turnover loss limit, but restore the Tozo, not only without the partner test, but also without the power test, not only now, but also next year. I would also like to draw attention to the seasonal entrepreneur. It does not always seem to be eligible for the TVL, not even with the new extension. Is this true? What are you going to do to meet this group anyway? Mr. Chairman. More perspective is needed. At the press conference, Hugo de Jonge told catering entrepreneurs that the measures would last until December. An unprecedented blow! This closure is harder for many companies than the first. Isn't that an extra reason to take these austerities off the table? It is clear from everything that decisions of this kind are made mainly in the hospitality sector but never with the catering industry. During the previous Corona debate, the Prime Minister promised my group chairman, Geert Wilders, that he would talk to the catering industry. I would like to receive the concrete results of this commitment. When have the talks been held, or should they still take place? What is this cabinet going to do with the call that the support package for many catering companies is simply not enough? Will the cabinet finally promise what the PVV called for earlier, namely to make the aid measures available without austerity even in the first quarter of 2021? I say it again: without those austerities! Is the Cabinet prepared to open up access to the supplementary arrangements more quickly than is currently the case? Many companies simply cannot wait any longer. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. There's a lot to worry about. The fear and uncertainty gnaw at a lot of Dutch people. We can recover from this, but then we have to make the right political decisions. I saw it happen today: the VVD and D66 act like they're opening the door and they pretend there's room, but in the meantime I don't see it getting concrete. I ask all the people here in the Chamber to become concrete today and not leave the entrepreneur and the employee in uncertainty any longer by at least supporting the PVV motion today to keep the austerities off the table. More will be needed, but at least remove those austerities. Show me you care about all these people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u66	Thank you for your contribution. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS welcomes the progressive insight of this cabinet. In any case, the cabinet is taking a number of welcome measures for sectors that are being hit hard by the new corona restrictions. This is an addition to the turnover losses which have been incurred since 1 October as a result of the austerity of aid measures. But is it enough? It goes in the right direction, but we fully understand the criticism of the hospitality sector, the event sector, travel agencies and the coach sector. We certainly understand them in the light of the recent austerities of the whole package and the corona restrictions that will last until December. And indeed, as the colleagues said, we do not know what will recover at 7 p.m. We still consider the introduced austerities to be very unwise, especially as long as the re-training, retraining and retraining part has not got off the ground and especially now that there is a further step. Why are there these austerities right now? Why is the cabinet holding on to this? Do we not call for bankruptcy and mass unemployment on us? We therefore ask once again to reverse the applied scale of the NOW from 90% to 80% and also to delete the partner key in the Tozo. And is the cabinet going to do anything for the border workers who fall for the Tozo between shore and ship? We like to hear it. We advocate once again for NOW companies that make people available to, for example, care, daily spending, but we also heard the test streets or enforcement, to give a full compensation for wage costs. We are considering a motion for a resolution. Can the Minister embrace this idea? And isn't it the time for all the sectors that are currently under great pressure to work with open ring? Can the Minister respond to this? In addition, how can an entrepreneur quickly and effectively find the opportunity to use his staff elsewhere in sectors where the water is running over the shoes, including for the unskilled? How are we going to facilitate these entrepreneurs? 50PLUS is curious about the research of the Minister of Social Affairs on those temporary jobs for crisis support in heavily-burdened sectors, in order to provide meaningful temporary employment for people. Certainly, an important initiative, and we believe that this temporary work should not be at the expense of a right to benefit and that the ultimate goal should remain to help people to work permanently. It must also not lead to the displacement of employment or to work with benefits. Is the Minister's goal also to help people to work permanently? Does he share our opinion? 50PLUS still feels that there is a huge lack of support for people who, despite all the other measures, are unemployed and unable to get another job, or who are excluded from all the corona aid measures. What is the Minister going to do to prevent these people from flocking to welfare? With the difference between massive support from the many billions to companies and hardly any support for this particular group of people, is it not completely lost? We consider it necessary to provide temporary income support for people who are barely or not able to make use of the WW. Is the Minister going to provide for that? And we're also asking for a solution. It's been mentioned before about the quarantine, for both employees and employers. Companies, flexicurities and self-employed people are now paying for the costs of this government policy. We also believe that the wages of workers in quarantine should be paid. Is the Minister going to take care of that? Finally. Will the new additional support measures also be implemented for the Caribbean Netherlands? And can that be done quickly, can that be promised? And chairman, I'm glad the pilots signed KLM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The FME, the ING, but also the CPB, all ring the bell. It's up to the man. A lot of companies are in danger of going bankrupt, a lot of employees and self-employed people are threatening to lose their jobs or have already lost their jobs. And it is, of course, special that we have talked about this here, as others have already talked about it, while Irma is doing all the stretching and stretching exercises for the press conference in an hour or two. We are somehow good at planning these debates at a strange time, because the debate at the end of September was also at a time when the second wave had already started. Then we talked here about phasing out aid packages. Those support packages have also been phased out. And now we are talking in part again about the construction of support packages. I see Minister Koolmees shaking no, but there really is a partner test and it has been announced that there will be a reduction in the NOW and the wage support. And that's what we talked about at the end of September. Now we are more than five weeks away, and in those five weeks we have seen that it goes wrong; that it goes wrong with the virus, and that it goes wrong with a lot of companies that have had to close the doors on behalf of the government. I think, and according to the SP, we have a few things to do. First of all, it is necessary to give people perspective again; perspective on a certain income. That certain income can consist of this payment of wages, because we continue to help companies in a decent way and not to reduce that support. So the announcement of that phasing-out has to be removed from the table with regard to the SP fraction. The second way to provide security is to make a fair scheme for self-employed people, where the partner's income does not count. We receive numerous examples from the SP, for example from someone who organises light and sound at gigs, and has a partner who works 32 hours in home care. They can't lose half their family income. Because that's what's happening now: people lose half their family income. Everyone knows that in almost all cases it is particularly difficult to pay the fixed costs and to get by. That needs to be solved. The third is to offer a perspective to people who would like to work in another sector or have to work in another sector. There has already been talk of crisis jobs. In a lot of sectors, it was already a crisis. I would like to take you back to the situation in education, where there is a huge shortage of teachers, and to the situation in health care, where the previous cabinet has reduced a lot of employees. They're badly needed now. Think about the situation with the police or the situation on the housing market, where a lot of houses have to be built. In my view, therefore, these crisis jobs should not consist of temporary arrangements, where someone as a boa with a temporary contract is going to hand out coupons in the park for a few months, but should mean that we are making a very nice offer to people who want to stand in front of the classroom, for example, and that we are making it financially possible to take full and proper training, as a police officer, as a teacher, as a nurse. Then we offer people a perspective and use this opportunity to deal with the crises in the public sector and to educate people. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, I very much agree with everyone who has talked about quarantine time, about making it possible for people to actually go into quarantine. Think of people with a zero-hour contract, temporary workers andzzp'ers. But think also of all those employers, who are now even putting pressure on employees not to install that corona app, to avoid that absence. It is in the interests of all these people that they have an income and can keep an income during the quarantine period. It is in the interests of the health of these people, and it is in the interests of public health, in the fight against this gigantic pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u70	I heard Mr Van Kent say that it cannot be the intention of those crisis jobs that someone who, for example, works in the hospitality or culture should temporarily help as well as boa or something like that. Can he explain to me why that shouldn't or shouldn't be the intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u71	I think we have enough temporary and insecure work and the catering industry excels in that too. It's a sector I'm defending, because the government has decided to close the doors. I certainly welcome the fact that all kinds of fine things can be organized there. You mentioned the example of Breda. I very much welcome that. But we have another major problem, namely the public sector, which has been totally neglected by the VVD. Think of those 70,000, 80,000 people in the care that were fired by the previous cabinet, who have been cut off. Think of the huge teacher shortages and the shortages in the police. I think we should take this opportunity. You just said put proposals on the table. The proposal put forward by the SP is that we should take advantage of this opportunity, this situation, this nasty situation, to make a nice offer to people, to make it financially possible for those who want to choose education and to make it attractive. This is how we tackle the crisis in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u72	In particular, Mr Van Kent's first nuance was good in itself, because I want to prevent us here as a Chamber, from imposing all kinds of restrictions on how these crisis jobs should be. I think it can be very helpful for a temporary period. We must support the fact that a catering worker who is unable to work in his hospitality shop for a number of weeks can proceed in the care sector. But let's not build a whole circus with all kinds of obligations around it, because I think that such a catering worker probably wants to go back to that catering business after six weeks, if it can open up again. It's not like there's no need for catering anymore. In fact, I think everyone's in line to go there. So I would argue not to impose all kinds of dogmatic restrictions on those crisis jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u73	Don't worry. Of course, I welcome these initiatives. That's fantastic. But the problem is that this cabinet is steering in the short term. That's also the reproach. As I said, we had a debate here at the end of September on phasing out the aid packages rather than on building up the aid packages, when the second wave had already begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u75	Mr President, I would like to take this very seriously. Before the summer, Lilian Marijnissen announced the need for a job plan. The cabinet has been encouraged to do so by many parties. We see very little of that. It is nice and good to do things in the short term, but I think we should also dare and look forward for a few months to deal with the other major problems that still exist in society and find solutions to them. That's the proposal the SP just made. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u76	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis increases inequality in society. We see rich people getting richer and poor people getting poorer. We see thatzzp'ers and flex workers lose their income. Horeca entrepreneurs sit with their hands in their hair. Taxi drivers and other small businesses are really in serious financial distress. More and more people lose their jobs and rely on the food banks. Mr. Chairman. It is a real crisis, but not all Dutch suffer from it. The 500 richest Dutch people have earned together 6 billion euros since the crisis, per Dutchman 12 million euros. The 32 largest multinationals in the world made 92 billion euros more profit this year than last year. Big Pharma, the big pharmaceutical companies, are also making more profit. The ten largest pharmaceutical companies made 89 billion dollars a profit over the past year. Mr. Chairman. That's actually unacceptable. While a lot of people have to turn into this crisis and go to the food bank, we see large companies making billions of profits. And the cabinet would like to give these multinationals a gift of a few billion euros. We say: let us spend those billions of euros on a reduction in rents, care premiums, VAT, with a large solidarity levy for companies that can and want to pay it, in order to help ordinary Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. The additional support package calls for a number of responses. Let me begin by expressing my appreciation for the speedy transition of the three ministers, the three W's. This is what keeps companies and jobs going. The support package is like oxygen for the economy, which would otherwise suffocate. The group of DENK therefore supports the third additional package, just like DENK did with the previous packages. I do have two specific points. We are pleased that the capital test of €46,000 in the Tozo, partly under pressure from the Dutch Parliament, has been cancelled. The partner key entered in the second package is still intact. That's where DENK wants to get rid of it, too. We see that entrepreneurs such as taxi drivers from this government do not receive support if their partner has a modest income. In the first and second package we supported 90% with a salary up to €9,500. But a household based on two incomes must suddenly live on one income, often at welfare level. That's unfair. Then there is the group that is hit hardest by this crisis: flex workers and call forces. They have often lost their jobs due to the closure of the catering industry. These groups, which the CBS calls "the folding chairs of the economy," are the last to expand and are often the first to lose their jobs when they are struggling. In the spring, a special arrangement was created for this group of people, who fell outside everywhere: the TOFA, intended for flex workers, up to €600. Isn't it just time for the TOFA 2.0? As far as DENK is concerned, we're not letting anyone go. Finally, Mr President. The CPB pointed to the increasing inequality and discrimination resulting from corona. That is why I have a motion for a resolution (35570, No. 36) to intensify information on discrimination during the corona crisis. The government then asked me to hold the motion to see what she could do with it. I want that to be done. I would therefore like to put this motion to the vote, but I would first like to receive a response from the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u78	Thank you for your input. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u79	Thank you, of course, partly on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. The corona measures are disproportionate. Business is being destroyed unnecessarily. Unfortunately, the aid measures are quite inadequate. The corona bureaucracy is also appalling: partner test, reference periods, SBI codes and so on. The water is on the lips of entrepreneurs. Now the cabinet demands a third statement, which explains exactly how much the decline in turnover was compared to the previous year. This must be done by an expert who does not work within the organisation. This costs unnecessary money and again shows how far this Kafkaesque cabinet is from the drowning entrepreneurs: here you have a life buoy, but you can only use it if you pay the accountant some extra money. Can we not come up with a solution for this, especially in view of my Chamberwide motion to minimise bureaucracy? Mr. Chairman. Restaurants may be the hardest hit. During the first lockdown, the catering industry has been closed for a long time and after that the catering industry has had to invest a lot to comply with the corona rules. This resulted in a very low number of infections, 2,6%, to be precise, but still the catering industry had to close again. Inexplicable, because the OMT didn't even recommend this. And now there is an additional TVL grant of 2.75% of turnover loss. This is totally inadequate. Horeca entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in the event business are closed for the second time by the government. That is not a normal entrepreneurial risk. Why are event catering and hotel restaurants excluded from this? Why don't bowling alleys and tennis centers get anything? Does the Minister agree with me that if the government takes a decision that causes damage, the government should compensate the affected entrepreneurs 100%? Mr. Chairman. For the rest, I believe that the best support would simply be the lifting of the lockdown, obviously in conjunction with another corona scenario in which elderly and vulnerable people are protected, the care capacity is scaled up and the rest simply continues with its normal life, without this immense social, cultural, medical and economic collateral damage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u80	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u81	Mr. Chairman. We live in a time of great uncertainty about care, about our economy and our society. The crisis seems to control every aspect of our lives. The government is doing everything it can to keep people out of the water. Viceroy ordered Joseph to save grain in good times, to feed the people in the lean years. That is exactly what the government is doing now: an unprecedented effort to keep the economy going, with support measures rising to 10 billion in this quarter as well. How long can the government stand by and offer the helping hand? If there is a third, a fourth or a fifth wave, if there is no vaccine and if we have to stack emergency packages, then at some point the Minister of Finance's grain barn is empty. A question that goes with this: how are we going to make the transition to the post-corona era? Which companies are part of this new era and which are not? Who are we helping and who aren't we helping? My group chairman has asked for a motion for a National Business Guarantee, in which we bet on those companies that show good employership and undertake responsibly and fairly. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? Can the Minister indicate whether the Netherlands, with the recent outbreak of the virus, can make stronger use of the European aid money? The NIS reports that the cabinet considers the demands that come with the European funds "developed', while those country-specific recommendations of the European Union have been known for years and are not so strange at all. As far as my group is concerned, it is clear that, in this time of crisis, the Dutch industry must be able to benefit as quickly as possible from the billions that are available. It cannot be imagined that the Netherlands would contribute to the European crisis pot but would not benefit from it itself. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In this crisis, I also see a glimmer of light. I am hopeful when I hear the story of Marjon Courage, the theatre maker who together with catering staff and stewardesses as support staff in corona departments illuminates the work for the care workers. I see that the cabinet wants to further encourage this to ensure that people can switch to care and other deficit professions. How can this be followed? What about the hundreds of millions for retraining and retraining? How and, above all, when is this money going to be put to real use? Mr. Chairman. Young people are a group most affected in the labour market. More and more young people are unemployed at home. We've talked about this before, but it's not gonna work. Lots of plans, little action. If you go to the walk-in meeting at the town hall, you will be told on the spot that there is no walk-in consultation. Isn't that how we get young people to work? I call on the ministers to address this issue with the highest priority. Consultation with youth organisations, with Coalition-Y, and work on this. Investing in young people is investing in the future. We have also discussed more internships and apprenticeships before, but it seems as if everything stops after the Empire has made money available. Is there anything else we can organize in this country? Can the Minister tell us what action has already been taken on the supplementary social package presented by the cabinet this summer? Mr. Chairman. I am concerned about the target employment agreement, the people working with regular employers under the Participation Act with labour costs subsidies. It is good that funds have been allocated to compensate SW companies for the expected higher influx, but is it not logical to want to avoid that higher influx? We know that hiring this vulnerable group of employees always requires a little more commitment and investment from the employer, and most entrepreneurs like to do so, but for the same money we just keep the employees with the regular employer? The municipalities already have so much on their plate and entrepreneurs can help the government by keeping people active within the industry from work to work. Is the Minister prepared to go in consultation with the branches to see how, in addition to the funds allocated, employers can be even more encouraged to keep people from the target group at work within their industry? My final point, Mr President, if I may. I have another question about the often complicated situation of people in prostitution, which was often excluded from the previous support packages. Can the cabinet discuss this with municipalities, see how their customised budget for the social domain can be used for this and see where compensation is needed? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u82	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Palland on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Sometimes in this bizarre time you get the unpleasant feeling of sitting in a dark tunnel. And then you wonder if there's any light at the end of the tunnel. Herman van Veen once wondered that singing. I trust that, but the question is, how long is that tunnel? The honest answer is that we do not know, and that is somewhat frustrating. It is a good thing that this third package has extended the support measures and that the cabinet, in addition to the sectors that have been hard hit since last week, such as catering, culture, events and sport, is taking extra action. They welcome the temporary broadening of the TVL scheme to all sectors. This is somewhat in line with the transport sector, suppliers of events and so many affected entrepreneurs with their codes between ship and ship. It is good that the TVL is also open to agriculture and horticulture, but we have a question about the accounting concepts, because the accounting concepts in agriculture and horticulture are often different. We ask the Cabinet to discuss the use of the TVL scheme with the affected agricultural and horticultural sectors, so that the entrepreneurs who need it are actually eligible. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. There are also questions about the trade-offs made with the package and its appropriateness in any further lockdown measures. Other colleagues have already mentioned this. The letter of 27 October states that recourse to the guarantee and credit arrangements is low. At the same time, the need for credit is higher than ever. How can these schemes, such as the KKC and the COL, not be fully exploited? Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to say something about quarantine. There are a number of concerns and questions about people with a vulnerable position in the labour market, such as young people and flex workers, and about employers struggling with the rising absenteeism and the preventive quarantine of people. Finding a solution for the latter appears to be complicated. Very much and very quickly testing contributes to shortening the quarantine period and the cabinet is also taking steps in this regard. But the question is: is it also possible, for example, to explore through municipalities customization for possible problems due to quarantine measures? Mr. Chairman. About the quarantine obligation and testing we also receive many questions from companies whose employees, for example maintenance technicians, travel abroad for work and vice versa. There are two issues. There is uncertainty as to which tests have been approved by the GGD and RIVM. And have we understood that the LCI directive is going to lead in this? When will it be? Secondly, there are exceptions to the quarantine rules for border traffic because of economic importance. What are the exact conditions and what are the limits? Does that have to be the same limit every time? Finally. We see fine initiatives passing by, lending staff to sectors where people are lacking their hands. But there are also signs that this encounters barriers or cold feet. Our question is: is it sufficiently clear to entrepreneurs how this can be designed? Where can one ask to make this possible? The cabinet indicates that it wants to identify where the deployment of additional people can help in providing crucial work. The CDA sees opportunities to meet the needs of temporary crisis jobs and, for example, to keep young people and flex workers active in the labour market. Mr Asscher also mentioned this. How does the Minister intend to further shape this? Finally, Mr President. Every support package we agree on now also puts a mortgage on the future. What is the government's strategy to ensure a long-term balance between supporting our economy and maintaining employment on the one hand and being able to mortgage the future on the other? What is the optimal strategy to reduce economic and social damage? Let's advise ourselves on that, shall we? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u84	Thank you, Mrs Palland. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u85	Mr. Chairman. If the cabinet takes additional measures to contain the coronavirus, it is logical that the cabinet should also take additional targeted support measures. Yesterday morning several media headlined "employers advise their staff not to use the corona app." Sometimes multiple workers are in quarantine for several days. And that is a big problem for small entrepreneurs. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to talk to SMEs in order to find an appropriate solution to this problem of employers and ultimately employees. It is also difficult to maintain sufficient distance in some sectors. Think of construction workers doing their job on a narrow scaffolding or lift. But truck drivers, for example, also face many problems because sanitary facilities and eateries are closed. I would also like to have a reaction to this. The control of NOW 1 is now in operation. Entrepreneurs who have received more than €100,000 in support must present an audit report. Many companies have applied for more than €100,000, but have seen afterwards but are entitled to, for example, €30,000 or another amount below that €100,000. But they still have to file an audit report. The costs involved are thousands of euros. My question is: is it not possible to find an appropriate solution for this, for example a voluntary refund of too many sums received or something like that? Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the cabinet provides a limited extra support. My question is whether the rulers can provide a further basis for this. Is the Minister prepared to monitor a group of companies representative of the whole catering sector in the near future and, on that basis, consider whether additional support is necessary and desirable? It is a good thing that the cabinet has chosen to broaden the TVL via the SBI codes. The SGP has very often called for attention to be given to enlargement, but we hardly wish for more enlargement. But why is this widening only temporary? Specific sectors continue to fall between shore and ship. By way of a motion from my hand, the cabinet was asked to engage with these sectors and seek solutions. For example, the coach industry and shipping companies continue to have problems, because those who have high fixed charges I ask the Minister whether it is possible to increase the percentage of fixed charges in the TVL for this sector. Then the rosé calf farms, because they suffer losses from price reductions from €100,000 to €300,000. The TVL and NOW arrangements do not reflect the situation in this sector. Now, Minister Schouten seems to be offering a small opening, but I urge the cabinet to take this quickly and seriously. I'd like to get an answer to that, too. The SGP has previously made a point of low recourse to the corona guarantee schemes. My question is whether the Minister would like to look again at the conditions and the interest rates, because we must avoid this, and I think that this is a wish of everyone that we should have the guarantee space available, but that it should remain unused and that companies should close the door in the meantime. Mr. Chairman. I also read a passage in the letter on the impact on public finances. It is very good that there is now explicit attention to this issue. Even if the Minister of Finance is not here, I like that this is now clearly happening. That is also good; I think that is part of his role. The SGP considers it important that the money ends up with those who really need it, but unfortunately I also hear and read a lot of stories about possible fraud. All kinds of tricks are pulled out and shared to receive as much support as possible, for example by setting invoice dates on dates outside the review period of the aid measures, while the work was carried out during this period. My question is whether the Minister can give an update on the abuse and misuse of corona aid. (NL) Mr President, all in all. I have already drawn attention to sectors where contracts are drying up, such as the construction and infrastructure sectors and shipbuilding. My question is whether the cabinet is prepared to provide more targeted and future-oriented support for these sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u86	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Actually, I'd like to suspend until 5:30. Then let's move on. I'd like to suspend at 7:00. Then we combine the dinner break with following the press conference which may, possibly, have consequences for this debate. A point of order, I take it, Mr. Van Kent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u87	Yes, in response to your proposal. I think it is a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u88	Oh, thank you. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u89	In addition, after the press conference, we should be able to see part of Mr Koolmees' first term, so that we can also discuss with the cabinet what happened in the press conference and what that might have to do with the NOW and the Tozo arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u90	What are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u91	That part of the government's first term can take place after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u92	Oh, yes, I understand. I understand that, after the suspension, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs will begin first. Let's see if we can sort that out a little bit. Yeah? Thank you. I shall now suspend until 5:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u93	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u94	Mr. Chairman. The virus is on our heels. This means that we have repeatedly been forced to take additional measures to limit the spread of virus. These measures are therefore socially and economically extremely important. We notice this in sectors directly affected and also in other sectors of the economy. It's piercing. It is a staggering picture of a kind of unequal struggle between employers and employees on the one hand and the virus on the other. There's nothing else I can do. I am extremely gloomy about that. We have launched a major package of measures. Is that enough? That's exactly the right question. I'll say something about that in a minute, but okay. Let me just say this. One of the key points of Mr Asscher's contribution is that there is, of course, no contradiction between health and the economy. If we shoot too far to the one, it'll go wrong. If we shoot too far, it'll go wrong. I don't see that contradiction. That image doesn't help either. It's not helping. Good. So it's exactly the right question. It is the question that many here are asking and we are asking him. Is the package as it is now enough? I hear in the debate that we support companies. No, basically we support job retention and income retention. That's what we support. Companies are a means to this end. They will also be needed for the revival. We're dying to keep it. Yes, we also think it is important that all these dreams and ideals of the entrepreneurs themselves remain overpowering, but at the very end of course we are just about the prosperity of the Dutchman, now and later. At the same time, Mrs Palland and Mr Bruins pointed out that we are also here on behalf of the taxpayer. After all, someday it will have to be repaid. This means that we must do what is necessary and we must always ask ourselves very carefully whether it is still necessary and, if so, what is needed. Sometimes it takes a little more and at some point it will have to get a little less. That last one's not today. The proposal of this cabinet, of the three of us, is to get back to that very quickly, for all these different requests in all these different areas. We have heard the question about the legitimate interest in crisis jobs. We're fascinated by that, too. I call the quarantine scheme, the travel industry, things in the retail trade, the cultural sector. That's what Mr. Smeulders asked for. We watch this all the time. My commitment on our behalf is that we will try to come back as soon as possible with an answer to those questions. But one thing I know for sure: more is needed, but most of that "more" is already in the current arrangements. I am not trying to anticipate the answer to the question of whether there is any need for more, but it is good to know that much more is needed and that'very much more' is already in that current package. We use the term "breathe" all the time, but that will also be a cliché. Macro we have estimated this period at 3.5 billion. Yeah, that could be 6, 7, 8 to 10. But that too is abstract. To be able to think about this, over and over again, I always look at the questions of micro for myself. What are we doing? Are we reasonable? What's going on? What's going on? Have a cafe. An average café like ours has a turnover of €40,000 per month. If they have 30% turnover loss, they can use the TVL, the NOW... We did one thing on top of that recently, because they had invested a lot of money, but also had to take stock losses. That whole package provides an average café with a turnover of €40,000 during this period.Not those nine months, but this quarter, I mean €11,000 in aid, at 30% turnover loss. But if it becomes 95% turnover loss, because we can only give a meal here and there, then it is not €11,000 anymore, but €36,000. There are few regulations to come up with, and very few regulations here that bridge that gap. This arrangement is a cannon. Take a bigger restaurant, a restaurant with a small quarter million sales per month. If that 30% turnover is lost, we transfer €71,000 from the Empire to that restaurant in this quarter. €71,000 at 30% turnover loss. If that is 95% loss of sales due to what we are all experiencing now, it will be more than €230,000. That springing is extremely powerful. That's right. That's what we've come up with, we think it's necessary and that's what it's meant to be, but the arrangement is a cannon. Does the question remain: don't delete it, is it enough, does it always fit? We're gonna think about it again. We started that last Sunday, in all honesty. It is also true that we can keep in touch with these sectors through the appropriate directors at this time, because the sums from the department do not always match the stories from the practice. We need to keep an eye on that. Mr Aartsen asks if we are prepared to talk to the banks. Yeah, we're definitely gonna talk to banks. We're having another conversation with banks in the short term. Not only about the funding arrangements, but also about the time-out arrangement and their willingness to play their part in this difficult time. Are we willing to have another conversation with landlords, for example? Oh, yeah. That is important, because that is one of the key points behind the arrangements. It is logical that you pay an important part of the wage costs, but it is less productive to assume a priori that you have to pay just as much of the fixed costs. We have assumed that parties have called upon them to resolve it in the chain, in all honesty. There's got to be that incentive. A catering owner should also be able to consult the leasing company, the landlord and the brewery and say: together, we have to solve it in the chain. I have seen a lot of situations and a lot of sectors where it is solved in the chain. I would like to say to Mr Aartsen that I am making sure that the appropriate govern ment is involved again and again, because it is important to look at this again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u95	Maybe it's an idea...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u96	Perhaps the answers will come, Mr. Chairman. Let me outline the menu, because the court is concise. It still consists of the answers to the questions about schemes and a number of answers to questions about sectors. And that is what I am going to say, because I do not think we are all in the mood for general economic reference in this Chamber. I'll spare you that. I do the arrangements and the sectors. If there are any questions about specific arrangements and sectors, they will still come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u97	Fine. Then I go to Mr De Jong and then to Mr Aartsen. The interruptions must be really short. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u98	I'll be brief. There are thousands and thousands of entrepreneurs watching now. They see that there is a new package, but they also know that austerities have taken place and are about to take place in relation to the third package. My only question to this govern ment is whether he is prepared to say today that he will withdraw the austerities from the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u99	On the TVL there are no austerities, but there is an extension. Mr Koolmees has made a sensible attempt on several occasions to explain that the NOW scheme is not shattered, but offers a certain degree of flexibility which is considered equivalent. But when it comes to the austerities that may still be coming, this Chamber has adopted the Asscher motion, and on that basis we have promised to see what is needed, as we always see what is needed. And that's what we're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u100	Of course, that's not an answer. It is an answer, but it is not, of course, an answer that will help many entrepreneurs. The NOW has gone from 90% to 80%. Let me give you an example. The average catering entrepreneur has 60% to 65% remuneration of labour costs. It never got to the 90% it was in the past. The same goes for the 80%. It may be very difficult to look at them, but these are the figures and the signals I get from entrepreneurs myself. The question I constantly get, and not only me, but also all my colleagues here in the Chamber, is whether these austerities are possible because that is what these people call getting less compensation, at least. I see it now as very gloomy. Can the cabinet please promise that it's going to leave the table? Give a little bit of security to those entrepreneurs and employees. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u101	Somber we both are, so there's no harm in that. We're not gonna do a game of who speaks most to the catering industry, but I know that footage. I would like to know exactly what Mr De Jong's intention is. He says they don't get 80%, they get less. That is, of course, because it goes in proportion to the turnover loss. At 100% turnover loss they get what it says, and at less turnover loss they get less. That's just part of the arrangement, and that's not weird either. If you don't lose sales, you don't get anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u102	And the question to Mr De Jong is? Would you like an explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u103	I'm just trying to figure out what he wants from me. That not everyone has 100% turnover loss, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u104	I do not think I have to doubt the intellect of the ruler, but this question has been in the Chamber for weeks and is put to the cabinet week after week, not only by my party, but also by others and certainly also by entrepreneurs. You ask: what exactly do you mean? Did you lie under a rock or something? What I mean is that in the third package less room has been created for entrepreneurs. They are now asking if they can please return to at least the package from before. For example, when it comes to the NOW, they don't want the 80%, 70% and even more down, but they want it to stay at least at that 90%. That's the question. You act like you don't understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u105	This is about another point...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u106	You don't take all these entrepreneurs seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u107	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u108	You do not take all these entrepreneurs seriously, on behalf of whom I also speak and who you have undoubtedly been talking to. You're making fun of this place like you don't understand what's going on. Something is going on and that is that a lot of companies are just threatening to go bankrupt. This is not something they are waiting for, so I would like a serious and substantive answer on whether or not you are going to take these austerities off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u109	I think we can safely assume that all sides of this debate are not under a rock. Demand for 65% later became demand: from 90% to 80%. I understand that question. Mr Koolmees explained this. I also assume that Mr De Jong was not under a stone. Mr Koolmees will explain one more time why this is considered equivalent in the spirit of the regulation and does not lead to austerity. In many cases, it can also help entrepreneurs, as it provides greater flexibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u110	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u111	I'm gonna try one more time. Entrepreneurs tell me that they heard too many times that they could get 90% compensation from the previous NOW. But in practice, that meant that they were only reimbursed 65%, so that's already a big difference. It's about the image and the practice. My question to the Minister is: can he promise today that he will at least take away from the table what the people and the workers in the country do see as a austerity? Can he ensure that the measures relating to the NOW are reversed when it comes to the compensation they can get? That is a very simple, logical and normal question, and I hope that the Minister will be able to try one more time to put a yes or a no to that. He shouldn't put it off on Koolmies. I'm asking you, I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u112	This has to do with another matter. This isn't from 80% to 90%, but here's the 65% coming back. That is because, fortunately, not every catering company has 100% turnover loss and therefore receives that scheme in proportion. But that is not a austerity, because that was in the old package as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u113	Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u114	It's not austerity. It's proportional to turnover, and it was. And it's wise to do it in proportion to the turnover loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u115	So no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u116	I can't reverse a austerity that isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u117	Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u118	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u119	Well, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u120	Mr Aartsen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u121	The minister gave a calculation of what the government gives support to entrepreneurs, and that is considerable. The other side of that story is that a lot of entrepreneurs also make a big contribution to this: savings pots, students of their children, pension pots, loans and so on. That is reasonable in principle, but it is of course true that those buffers were there in the first lockdown. Some of them have been completed in the intermediate piece, but what I am very concerned about is that they are not there anymore, especially if this lockdown is going to take a long time in a number of sectors. My question to this Minister and also to Minister Koolmees is: are you prepared to look specifically at sectors in the actualization of the TVL and in the actualization of the NOW? Otherwise it will not only be wasted money from the government, but even worse: then we will have bankruptcies and job losses, because the buffers are just up at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u122	This is the tragedy. We all see that a government can't pay 100%. At the same time, that part that you don't reimburse is at the expense of the dream of entrepreneurship or ultimately of the viability of a company. That's the big bottleneck. We are going to try to include these buffers, the capital position of companies, in these kinds of considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u123	First Mr Van Weyenberg and then Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u124	That's good. We don't know what's coming. I'd still like to rewind to last week. We're standing here with the Minister of EZ. Last week, between the nose and the lips, it was announced that measures would be extended. I was given very complicated answers in the Corona debate, but now I am standing here with the Minister for Economic Affairs. Can the Minister just say that that was wrong and that it should be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u125	This has been discussed extensively in the Corona debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u126	I find it complicated to comment on communications that I didn't see live at the time. I believe that the directors who were directly involved have said enough about this. But let me say in general that we cannot be sufficiently clear about the fact that in this crisis time it sometimes leads to small accidents, that you forget, that you are inattentive. It is extremely complex, but we simply need to be absolutely clear because it is an extremely tragic time, for a lot of workers, a lot of employers and a lot of entrepreneurs. Clarity is a trump card, and we can't always do it, neither can I.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u127	I appreciate this answer, because this was exactly why I thought it was unwise. That's when people thought it was okay. Even that the Secretary of State later said "no, it is not a tightening-up at all and there is no extension at all," according to the Prime Minister was what was meant. I think this line is better, because no one says that this cabinet does not occasionally make a mistake. I'll give it to you to do. But then it's nice to learn from that instead of denying it. Then my final question. Mr Aartsen mentioned buffers. I very much agree. As far as actualization is concerned, we don't know what's gonna happen at 7:00. However, I can assume that sectors which are particularly affected by either an extension of the measures or additions will all be included in a possible supplementary aid package to see if there is a need for something extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u128	These sectors are being looked at and, depending on what else is going to happen, extra attention needs to be paid to them. That is the commitment I just made on behalf of the three of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u129	It is the difference between the compensation received by the employer and the costs actually incurred by the employer. This difference is not 10% for 100% reduction in turnover. Then it's not the 100% that gets paid 90%. There is the problem of many catering entrepreneurs. Therefore, in the NOW 2 the employer's costs have been increased from 30% to 40%. But what we are seeing now is that the employer's costs plus the amount for the wage bill as a whole will also be reduced by 10%. In response, the Minister for Social Affairs says that money goes to retraining and from job to job and that employers can reduce wage costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u130	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u131	But at the moment when an entrepreneur employs employees and wants to keep them in service, because they are temporarily closed by the government and will soon just want to open up again, the contribution that entrepreneur has to make will be higher because of this new step in the NOW. And the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u132	Yeah, that's what I was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u133	The question is: does the Minister for Economic Affairs consider it reasonable to ask entrepreneurs at this time? Because the cabinet has been asking for this from entrepreneurs since 1 October. Do you still think that's reasonable in the light of developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u134	I'm gonna count this long interruption for ten. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u135	I think it is reasonable, also from the taxpayer's point of view, to ask entrepreneurs for their own contribution. After the first package, entrepreneurs also asked for flexibility in order to be able to adjust their wages. I couldn't do that at the time, because there was a fine on it. That is different now, so they have been given a certain amount of room for adjustment, but without that fine and with a certain amount of compensation. This flexibility can be beneficial to many entrepreneurs. I am not saying that this is necessarily beneficial to every entrepreneur, because it is impossible for us to make arrangements that are beneficial to every entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u136	We therefore agree that the aid for a number of employers will be reduced by 10% and that it will be announced that this aid will be phased out on 1 January and will be further phased out in April. We see that entrepreneurs have to close their doors as a result of government policy. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs consider it reasonable to cut down so heavily the amount of support that entrepreneurs receive in a lot of cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u137	The phasing-out planned for the first and second quarters of next year will depend on the situation at that time. We've promised the Chamber to come forward with a re-examination. Let's see if we can say a lot about that at the very last minute. Then we'll see if that's reasonable. That's exactly the question. We'll have to see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u138	Finally. The cabinet decided to close down on 1 October before the second wave was as severe as it is now. On the 25th we had a debate here and the 28th was said at the press conference: the catering industry is closing. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs consider it reasonable to ask those entrepreneurs to make a higher contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u139	This is far from the case for all entrepreneurs. There is also a desire on the part of entrepreneurs to be able to adjust the wage bill. I thought that flexibility was sensible, together with Mr Koolmees. At the same time, we thought it wise to extend the TVL scheme, because at that time, the buffers for the larger SMEs were heavily seized. So we have extended that arrangement. We've screwed up the ceiling. We thought that was reasonable. The question is whether things are still reasonable for the first and second quarter. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u141	Mr Stoffer asked why the widening of the TVL is temporary. We are going to see that in the same way as the Asscher motion. We are going to consider whether this broadening is still appropriate at that time. I have been asked about the German measure for SMEs. That is how it looks at a number of points like the Dutch. Compensation shall be made on the basis of the usual turnover. I do not think that the percentage corresponding to this is very different from the mix between what we are doing about wage costs and the fasting charge. Weighed averages are not very different. There is one thing we have chosen and not the Germans: they look at it week by week and we have tried to clarify it in nine months' time, on the understanding that we will do one more review on the Asscher motion. But we really tried to give entrepreneurs more security than that week. The VVD asks whether entrepreneurs that started in Q1 2020 are now excluded from regulations. This is subject to the requirement that the company was registered with the Chamber of Commerce on 15 March. A company which started after 1 January but may qualify for the TVL for that 15 March will receive the minimum amount because there is no turnover index. The VVD also asks about the criteria for the event module. How do we prevent it from becoming a dead sparrow? It is not a dead sparrow, but it has become a very complicated bird, because we have completely studied it, with those seasonal patterns and entrepreneurs who have partly or completely not been able to make use of it. We've made an arrangement that, in all honesty, is pretty rough. I can't do it any other way. The scheme is open to entrepreneurs who have received a TVL 1.0 grant but are not eligible for Q4, due to the insufficient reference turnover. They have to fall within an SBI code that has to do with events. They must show whether they have organized at least one festival or event, or are dependent on the turnover for at least 70%. Now, of course, it may be that there are entrepreneurs who still benefit very little from this scheme because they are being honored, but for a limited amount. We haven't been able to get rid of these raffle edges. So the scheme does something, but it does not solve the whole problem. After the many versions that have passed me some modesty about this arrangement. It does a number of things for some 800 entrepreneurs. This also involves a reasonable amount, on average about €14,000 per entrepreneur. But it will also prove not very advantageous for entrepreneurs in the calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u142	Have you answered all the questions about the arrangements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u143	No, I haven't. I'm trying very hard to keep going, but there are always follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u144	Maybe Mr. Aartsen's too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u145	Mr President, shall I continue? Otherwise... There's a wait-and-see, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u146	Mr. Aartsen, you will have the opportunity to... You have a question about the events, I understand. Did you answer all questions about events, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u147	I have answered Mr Aartsen's question about events, but he looks at me questioning me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u148	He doesn't seem to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u149	I now have six questions about events, and then a few more questions about sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u150	Then perhaps it would be useful to wait for them, Mr. Aartsen. I suggest you answer it first, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u151	I was asked why the catering module does not apply to bowling alleys, for example. This applies only where catering is the main function, because otherwise it is unfortunately impossible. Mrs Palland asks whether the banks are doing enough and whether the arrangements are doing enough. These guarantee schemes are, of course, only intended to make the banks do something. Those banks offered a general a six-month grace period, but on top of that they provided 21 billion in funding without a government guarantee. On top of that, they have also provided something with a government guarantee, but the credit area from the banks has thus been very significant. However, since banks provided a lot of credit and schemes such as the NOW scheme and the TVL also provided funding, this also means that during that period there was just less of the guarantee schemes needed. Can we guarantee that for the future? No. Those arrangements must therefore remain. We will review that warranty space and align it with current expectations. Mr Stoffer referred to fraud, but in relation to it he asked whether it could perhaps be settled by means of a voluntary refund scheme. Let me get this straight. He's shaking no. As I thought, this is typically not a question for Mr Stoffer. Maybe he can explain his question more precisely, because I wrote along very quickly, but it was too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u152	You ask him to explain the question? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u153	Yeah, can I talk to you for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u154	Yes, very briefly. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u155	It can be very short. The Minister confuses two questions. One was: if you get more than €100,000 in support, you have to have an audit report, but if you get only €30,000 or something like that, you will need that whole rata plan of audit reports and high costs. That's one. The second was perhaps more intended for Minister Hoekstra; that question was actually to tackle the fraud, because it is also being applied. So it's two questions. If this minister can answer them at once, I think that's very handsome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u156	The first question I would like to put to you is the second time, because then I have a better answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u157	Oh, get out of here. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u158	Then there is the second question. The question of fraud is, of course, raised in all departments, including RVO. There are also reports from banks, for example, because banks are often involved in this kind of thing. They see things. Moreover, the rates of fraud presented by banks are very low, very far below 0.33% and sometimes even negligible. But that's what they're after. On top of that, there are all kinds of samples. On the other administrative question, Mr Stoffer still has the answer. Mr Aartsen has asked about the catering industry, and this. The OMT said at some point: think about if you could open restaurants at some point. It's asking for the segmentation. It also asks for enforcement, of course, to make sure that is going well. Let me put it this way: the prototype of a scheme, including pro forma preliminary calculations of what that would mean for the virus, is there, but that really still needs to be comprehensive medical epidemiological and policy-making and also discussed with security regions and so on. Work's progressing, but I can't predict very well when that's done. I'm working very hard on it, along with the Secretary of State. In the slipstream, I would like to mention that the Prime Minister is also going to talk to the catering sector. That conversation is scheduled for November 12th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u159	Have you answered all the questions that relate to events?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u160	No, I have one more question about the catering industry and one more announcement. Mr Asscher has asked for special attention for the small catering industry. Look, these arrangements are, of course, explicitly open to small catering. That, too, will be taken into account in the question of whether this is enough. In itself, we are still in the situation that there are very few bankruptcies in the catering industry, although Mr De Jong suggested otherwise. This situation could change. That would scare us, and then we'd have to dive into it. But there's a very low rate of bankruptcy in the hospitality business so far. The aim is, of course, to preserve all healthy businesses, and I hope that will succeed. Mr Aartsen also asked about the field labs. Fieldlabs are a way to see what can be done. That is partly within 1.5 meters: how can you nudge, seduce people, to meet those 1.5 meters? That's what science is doing and that's what we're doing from the Empire. The sector's working on it, too. There are all kinds of initiatives. One is behavioral; the Smart Distance Lab is busy with that. Another initiative is about releasing the 1.5 meters in a safe way, and the question is whether that is possible. In the second week of November, a recommendation from the RIVM will be issued to see whether and under what circumstances that would be permissible. So there's movement in that. It is never fast enough for me, but that is probably something I share with Mr Aartsen. I don't think we have much discussion about that. Mr Stoffer referred to the coach industry. By the way, we've been in touch with that. Several secretaries of state have understood themselves with the industry. Mr Stoffer's hypothesis is that the fixed-cost rate in the SBI code to which the coaches belong is actually too low. My information is that it's not. In fact, it's about right and maybe even a little too high. But it's about right. So I think that increasing further is not the right move right now. Mr Stoffer also asked about calves. Let me get this straight. Did I write right? Yeah, I got it right, I see. They can, of course, use the TVL and the Guarantee SME agricultural loans and also postpone tax payments. The Union has opened up the private storage scheme for beef and veal, which is also open to meat from old rosé calves. And the Minister of LNV has indicated in the animal husbandry AO that she will understand herself as soon as possible with the free calf sector, but that she does not yet want to make any promises. Mr President, I am, as I know, through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u161	Okay. Then I have Mr Aartsen, Mr Van Haga and Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u162	From the rosé calves I want to go back to the events and the catering industry. I had a point about the events, but I will, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u163	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u164	I think it's good news that I'm hearing from the Minister here. He says: there is a plan ready for the restaurants, for how this could be done in a safe way. I would like to hear from the Minister when we can also receive it as a Chamber. And the same goes for the request from the Chamber to send the RIVM opinion on the first field labs to the Chamber if there is one. It's November 14th, I think you said. I myself have asked Parliament questions about this and there will be a round table. Because this is information that is important to us as a Chamber, also in order to give entrepreneurs a perspective. I therefore request that the Chamber also be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u165	As for the request to involve the Chamber: always. I didn't say "plan," I said "prototype." Look, I'm not gonna shoot blanks either. So when something comes to a plan or a government proposal, it's off with all the parties involved, it's open, but intermediate and intermediate results I'm not going to send to the Chamber. This gives rise to all sorts of expectations which I may have to withdraw afterwards, or perhaps it is too modest, whereas after that more could actually be done. So we shouldn't do that. As soon as it's finished, I'll report this to the Chamber. But then I discussed it extensively with the industry, the security regions, the colleagues in the cabinet and so on. Then it's epidemiologically beaten, as I just said. That's not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u166	I'm looking forward to that beating. I asked a question about the event module. I said we should stop it from becoming a dead sparrow. Exactly the criteria described in the letter give me concern. I would therefore like to call on the Cabinet to look at the minimum criterion for eligibility for this scheme in particular. Because now the amount you don't meet the TVL is €750. If you're a decent tent or stage builder and you're building big festivals, you'll get that €750 very soon, even if you only have a few percent sales in the winter, because that's what the scheme is for. So, please, let's make sure that doesn't turn into a dead sparrow. In particular, I call on the Cabinet to look at this criterion and to let us know in the course of its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u167	I am not going to raise expectations other than that I am prepared to follow the suggestion to look at this. As part of the follow-up to my broader commitment to look at what might be needed, we will come back to this as well. So I'm gonna include it in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u168	The minister just said that restaurants are, of course, well compensated. It's moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u169	Never enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u170	We do indeed disagree on this, because I believe that if the government does damage, it must also compensate 100%. But I want to make another point. I'm interested in the adjoining catering industry. For example, a bowling centre also has catering facilities, but that is now closed. A sports center also has catering, but that's closed now. I've filed motions on the SBI codes before. Why is there so much trouble being done about these SBI codes? This is a damage station. We're talking about catering. Those people are causing damage. Why can't we just take that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u171	Because if anything has to be done for a specific sector, we depend on those SBI codes. We can't do that manually. There's just a computer here, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of companies going through it. All that must be on the table in no time. People want their money fast. We have to do that machine. This degree of manual work and precision is simply not feasible. I think that's very sad. Because if you think there's something going on with the catering industry, which is also happening with a catering establishment on a bowling alley, you'd like to pay for it. And we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u172	This is really disappointing. Here we have an engineer who says: computer says no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u173	No: computer can't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u174	These are fixable problems. There are several SBI codes. For a bowling center with catering we can of course solve that. We can't say: yes, but it's a bit difficult with those SBI codes; the computer can't handle it. The computer can handle it. We've had eight months now. Why can't we handle this? If it can't be done immediately, why can't you just promise that we're gonna take care of it as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u175	I am going to speak for a moment on behalf of all those people who have really worked very hard over the past eight months to make a lot of clarifications and improvements to that package and to respond to a lot of things. The department doesn't stand still and neither does the RVO. It goes on for the evening. Weekends have lost their meaning. During holidays there is hard work. We're doing everything we can. And there's more and more. Maybe we'll find out later that things can be done, because we've gotten back to that or because we've found new solutions. That's happened before. Then something couldn't be done before, but after that it could. So we continue to look, but with the hand on my heart I say: here, in the executive sphere, the government has done its utmost to make this package possible. I'm impressed by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u176	Of course, I have great appreciation for the people who work so hard to implement those arrangements, to check SBI codes and to look at solutions. I think it goes a long way that this is more or less compared to and compared to all those entrepreneurs who can't sleep anymore, who are eating up their pensions and are going completely over the top. The Minister says at the moment: no, it's all a little too difficult, the computer can't handle it; we're working really hard, but it's not gonna work. I would like to ask you once again whether you can simply promise that all these people with adjoining restaurants will simply be covered by this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u177	I don't do grief equations. I'm not gonna say that one person has been hit more than the other. I have seen people who are much worse off than the colleagues with whom I am on the floor. That's not the point. The point is that we know this to the best of our knowledge and can't do it now. I can't, even if I want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u178	I don't understand any of this. Why can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u179	I'm not gonna pass the RVO execution test here. We've been looking at these things very seriously. Some schemes have been studied for a very long time, for example at the event scheme. Unfortunately, not everything is possible. More and more, but we keep running into the limits of feasibility. I find that extremely sad in many cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u180	Mrs. Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u181	You're responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u182	That's right; I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u183	Once again, in conclusion, I find it extremely sad that the catering industry is receiving support, but that you are persevering and saying: we simply cannot do it and we are not going to look for a solution. So a bowling alley or a sports center with catering...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u184	You said that, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u185	Yes, I said that, but I would like to conclude by saying that I find it extremely sad that this is the end of this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u186	Okay. Mrs. Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u187	Let's get back to the rosé calves and livestock. I asked if the Minister would be prepared to discuss the application of the TVL in connection with possible complications with accounting concepts in that sector. Now I understand that the Minister of LNV has said that she will talk but cannot give any guarantees. Guarantees are complicated in life anyway, but can I take this commitment in such a way that it is precisely this, coupled with my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u188	Look, if this is also an issue that is going on there, I will see to it that the honourable Member is assisted in looking at this problem as well. Then we add that to the list of topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u189	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u190	I understand that every question we ask will indeed come back on top of the hopes of all those things that already lie with the ministries and implementing organisations. In my view, I have not yet received an answer from this Minister to one question I have asked. That's one in the context of: prevention is better than cure. In particular, the infrastructure, the construction sector and the shipbuilding industry are seeing their order book dry up. That may not need to be resolved today or tomorrow, but my question was whether it will be addressed in the future. If there might be a little air in those ministries again, will we be looking at how to prevent the blow from happening there too, when it might not be necessary? I would like to get a commitment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u191	One of the major features of the previous crisis was, of course, that the construction sector fell back too much. There have been regular consultations with the construction sector, including by the Minister for Housing, but also by the Minister for Infrastructure. Those conversations are running, but I can't report the details right now. But, of course, there are many areas of concern. What has happened to us in the past, in the previous crisis, must now really be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u192	Then I understand that the infrastructure, the construction and the shipbuilding sector are being looked at in detail at the moment when there is also room for action in the current situation. I think that's enough. So that's not something that just stays on. I think it has the full attention of the cabinet in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u193	"Plenty of attention in due course."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u195	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u196	Thank you. Then I'll just wait a minute. Not many questions have been asked to the Minister of Finance. Maybe he can answer it first. Then we wait for a moment until the office is cleaned and the Minister of Economic Affairs leaves space and keeps his distance. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for your directing. May I also thank you for allowing me to have both this debate and to be present in the Eurogroup? Members noticed that I'm there, too, I think. I have to get back to that, so I'm glad to be able to do the limited number of questions at my address now. Mr President, first of all. The Minister for Economic Affairs has just said a few words about the fact that we expect that there will be a much greater impact on all the arrangements. We believe that the real potential is in the billions, apart from the approximately half billion that we added last week. I will answer a few questions on the supplementary package, on taxation, on public finances and on a few other things. If I name it four blocks, it seems more than it's likely to be. Mr. Chairman. Mr Asscher said that the contrast between health and the economy is a false contradiction. I very much agree with him. That is really the case. Those things are immediately interrelated. I've told you before, here too, that you should actually look at the combination. It concerns medical damage caused by corona and the medical opportunity cost, i.e. the medical collateral damage that is also present. Think, for example, of the enormous misery of later diagnosed cancers, delayed surgeries and so on. There is also a next block of wider misery in the field of well-being. Think of domestic violence. And of course there is damage in the economy. Actually, no matter how complicated that is, you have to try to weigh that integrally. I therefore very much agree with his remark that this contradiction does not exist. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Brenk asked about the additional measures for the Caribbean Netherlands. I think I can give her a little peace of mind. I'll see where she is. Oh, she's coming in now. We take a similar approach for the Caribbean Netherlands as in the European Netherlands. We are still working on the details, also because the system is different there and the levels of income are different. We have a strong eye for it. I believe that the Secretary of State is currently in the Caribbean to discuss all these issues. Mr Smeulders asked if we are prepared to do more in the cultural sector. To put that in perspective: we have very substantial, I believe, order size 900 million, extra done, national, local, regional, for culture and the creative sector. We have also taken another step as part of the half-billion that I have just mentioned. I think this should really be adequate. There is therefore no intention to add anything else to this. But Mr Wiebes has quite rightly said that we will continue to see what is still necessary. Mr Stoffer asked about construction and shipbuilding. I was half listening, I must confess to Mr Stoffer, to Mr Wiebes' reply, but it was probably so accurate that I could get it out of my text. Mr Aartsen asked a tax question. He asked about tax delays for entrepreneurs and referred to the 1 October limit: could we not move them a little? A very valid point, which is in line with the motion of the Member Otten from the Upper Chamber. The Prime Minister and I were there last week for the General Political Reviews. The motion of his hand has given the Prime Minister's ruling Chamber. I understand that this motion has now been accepted unanimously. It says so beautifully here that there is "a letter on the way to both chambers right now." I always wonder where that letter is physically located between the Ministry and your home, Mr. Chairman, but we may have to imagine something more prosaic; it will be somewhere in the midst of cyberspace. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of public finances. I understand that there are a few comments that have been made in that direction. I would like to stress once again that, of course, I have concerns about public finances in the short term, because this is also about taxpayers' money that we all have to deal with prudently. Besides, it's money we borrow. But the real concern is, of course, about the medium and long term. How do you ensure that in the long term your income and expenses don't go so far apart that in the end you can't recover what makes you in debt? I'd like to put it in that perspective. In this context, Mr Bruins asked how long the government can assist. I think we should consider what's wise at a time. I have said before that there is a really strong logic behind going ahead with these types of packages. I'd rather have a little "spill" too, if I may put it that way. I'd rather help a number of companies that you'll find have gone bankrupt later than do exactly the opposite. You see the people who work there in the WW, and those companies end up in bankruptcy. It is also true that of course this is not the law of Medes and Persians. That does not mean that I can say that to your Chamber too, President-in-Office of the Council, that we must do everything, without limit, at all times and at all times. I have not yet come across a sector that said: 'Do us one less.' There are a lot of sectors that feel that there is still room for improvement. I understand that very well, but I think it is the responsibility of the cabinet, of course in dialogue with the Chamber, to just look at it every time. What is prudent? What's balanced? What is not evidently too little? But also, what isn't so that you shouldn't want it? The mission is of course to do what helps at this stage, but also to have an eye for that transition. Because some industries and some companies in certain industries are, of course, really in dramatic waters. It is also very doubtful whether they will be able to make it across the street unharmed. Mr. Chairman. Then I ended up at the other block. Mr Bruins asked about the recovery and resilience plan and to what extent the cabinet would call for it. That's exactly what we're going to do. It is true that we think it is wise to wait until the European Commission, in dialogue with the European Parliament, has laid down a definitive ruling on the contours within which you can apply. If we have arranged that, then that is the time for the Dutch cabinet to submit plans along the picket posts that have been struck. I may not have the expectation but, of course, I hope that some of the things that we managed to do in the last August decision-making process may be partly qualifying for that RRF. Think, for example, of the treatment of debt and equity. Think, for example, of making the flexible side of our labour market less flexible. Then Mr Aartsen asked me to speak more and more quickly in order to complete it within the time that you and I have in our minds, whether I am willing to talk to banks and landlords about pay breaks. I'd be happy to tell him. That will, by the way, be the continuation of the dialogue I am already engaged in. It is important to distinguish between a generic delay and the discussion on customisation. Banks now have much better insight into the situation of their customers. They are also very willing to offer customization. But there is also a dilemma. Mr Aartsen will remember that in the first phase we really addressed the banks: "Can we please speed it up? And don't be too frugal." They really did. There's another side to that. That is what I have said to the financial spokesmen. The Dutch Bank did say to me: "Watch out! The last thing you want to do is to combine this crisis with a banking crisis, so make sure the banks retain that position as part of the solution," as we've always called it "and as banks with a relatively solid buffer, because you're really stuck in the monkey if you push them into the swamp too much because of your good intentions." So there's an end to that rack. Mr President, with your permission, I will ask the last question, and then I will keep my mouth shut. Mr Azarkan asked about increased inequality. He refers to the 500 richest. That is a broader focus, I think, even in the Chamber: how do you do it in a fair way? We do have a very balanced income distribution in the Netherlands. It's just that power distribution is a little less balanced. We had a really good eye on the package, I think, for what we agreed on in the summer. How do you make sure you do something for the people with small jobs, in weak income positions? How do you help people, even in the field of transition? I think those are really serious, big steps. I also understand that Mr Azarkan wants more, but that would be more suitable for his election programme or for a subsequent formation than that we can fix at the moment. I am therefore asking for some understanding. I see him gloating, so he expects to join that formation, I conclude, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u198	Okay. Thank you. Mr Bruins and then Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u199	I've been waiting for the huge flood of words. I have two things to do with an interruption, if you will allow me. The first point concerns the recovery fund, which the Minister talked about. He said: we are waiting for the contours that the EU is going to lay down. If they are there, is it the intention that the Netherlands will participate and join the first round, for which the deadline is 30 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u200	We're definitely gonna compete. It is also obvious to orientate yourself on the first phase, but that will happen at a stage when I am a missionary, in which the cabinet is a missionary. It may be the case that the parties participating in the formation also have views on this. With regard to the first phase, therefore, I would like to say 'yes' in a conceptual sense. As far as participation is concerned, I say yes in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u201	I'm very happy about that. In another debate a few weeks ago, I asked the Prime Minister, but he couldn't say for sure at the time. So that full yes is good, because the maritime sector, which Mr Stoffer was also talking about, is also looking at it and other countries will certainly support their maritime sector. We'll see what comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u202	I hope I haven't put the Prime Minister in a complicated situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u203	No, I don't think so. This was just really good. My second topic is about the time to come. I expect that at some point we will have to cut back, because no matter how fast the Minister talks, the money will also come out very quickly. Then the question, which I also asked in my contribution, is: who are we helping and who are we not helping? Then we have to make choices. But what does this new time postcorona look like? We're in the middle of the second wave now. I understand that I am very early on with that question, but the National Companies Warranty that was in an adopted motion might provide a framework for that. Is there any thought about how such a thing could be designed, a package of support that makes choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u204	I very much agree with Mr Bruins' principle of principle. This is, of course, a wildly complex task, because in the sum total of the debates we have had with each other in recent months, I have encountered few Members of Parliament who have actively appointed themselves in which sector we can do less. I understand that, too. We all understand that, I think. And yet, even in a crisis like this, it remains a matter of making choices and doing what is sensible by sector. In addition, it is the intention to bet on helping and to bet on transition. For example, for aviation, the discussion over the past few days, the debate over the past few days, is simply not the same as for a sector which will be getting back on its feet quite quickly. So I very much agree with Mr Bruins' main line. I also think that this will increasingly become part of the debate in the first and certainly the second half of next year. I think it is too early now, because at this stage we have, I think, managed to make the right mix. I think that Mr Bruins is also right that at some point we wake up, look around us and see how much economic and budgetary damage is. Well, we'll have to relate to that after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u205	Then I go to Mr Aartsen, who also has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u206	Sure. I am glad that, in addition to the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Finance is also going to interfere with the banks. In particular, I have a question about the definition on which banks are now providing this customisation, namely future stability. That's what I'm worried about. I hope the cabinet can address this point to the banks. If a bank now takes a future-proof test on a catering company or an event company, it will say: at the moment, such a company is not future-proof, because it is mandatory and it is not allowed to do anything. But when the lockdown is lifted, I think the demand for events, festivals, concerts and restaurants will be extremely high. Is the cabinet prepared to address the banks on the definition of the term "future stability"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u207	Yes. For the record, it is the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and myself, who are in contact with the banks on this issue; I do so from a different responsibility than they are, but in the end we are all talking about this with the banks. Yeah, we're pointing that out. At the same time, of course, we also have the balance sheet dialogue with these banks. That balance is not always easy, but it has to be faced. Help entrepreneurs who have a reasonable outlook for recovery. And then you have to take a look past the picture and try to make an assessment of the film, if I may put it that way. But as a bank, you also have to look at your long-term soundness. That's really part of the recipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u208	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Then I'll get out of my way and then I'll report back in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u210	Good luck. Thank you. I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u211	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna try to do it fast, but I'm gonna do it carefully. The second wave is a fact. I am not going to repeat everything that colleagues have already said. I think I can agree with that for a short time. Health versus economics is not a contradiction, I repeat to my colleagues. But briefly. Of course, we presented the support and recovery package at the end of August. In that we have taken into account breathing when it comes to the turnover drop, with both the NOW and the TVL, so you are prepared for worse times. We also said: we keep a finger on the wrist all the time. We have weekly consultations with the social partners, with employers and employees, on new developments. Mr Wiebes and I will have that again this week. That is why we can always present additions. Mr Wiebes has just promised in the first term that we will do so again before the next stage. However, in addition to the aid and recovery package, in August, we also presented an additional social package with EUR 1.4 billion of accompanying policies aimed at training, helping from work to work, supporting people and businesses who are temporarily out of work or have no work, in order to get people back to work. In addition to that, in line with that, we also said in the letter we are discussing tonight that we are studying on the first topic: corona jobs or crisis jobs. A lot of questions have been asked by your Chamber. Of course, we have an eye for helping people from work to work or from a benefit to work, but we also have to look at sectors where the work has not stopped. In fact, where the work runs over the shoes, where a heavy burden group pulls an increasingly heavy cart, as indeed in the care sector, in education but also in enforcement, for example. Mr Asscher had that list in his first term. Together with all the departments that deal with this issue, so JenV, the Ministry of Education and also the Ministry of Education, we are now investigating and mapping whether, for example, for the duration of, say, six months, you can make a sword cut on both sides possible. That is, on the one hand, targeted support for these sectors that are under heavy pressure and, on the other hand, providing people with no income now with a good income. I think that's just a sensible policy. Only it's easier said than done. We need to map it very carefully, very carefully. We need to look at where the need is, but we also need to look at how we organise this, because the feasibility is and remains an important point. That's what we're doing. The stakes are very clear: getting as many people as possible in places where they are now badly needed to prevent people from staying in benefits. I also have a great deal of support for this in your Chamber. Then a few specialties on that. Out of my mind, there are three lines. The first line is indeed: map where the need is. So that's what we're doing right now. The second line is that Mr Aartsen also said in his first term, the example of entrepreneurs in Breda who say: catering staff are now out of work but the caretaker has shortages; can we achieve that matching? I think that's an excellent idea. We can very well shape this at local level, in line with the third line, namely helping it from work to work and the regional labour market initiatives that we have also included in the additional recovery package. Of course, we are also working hard on rolling it out. This means, for example, that in those labour market regions trade unions, employers, UWV and the municipalities work together to make that match. There too, these entrepreneurs can find each other to temporarily store employees "over" from an employer who needs people. There are a lot of problems, as you can imagine, with regard to the NOW regime and all kinds of obligations that come from it. So we really need to map that out nicely. I am trying to inform your Chamber of this before my budget debate on 17 November. Then we also have an overall picture of what is possible, what can, what is needed, what makes sense and also what consequences this has in all kinds of other schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u212	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mr. Asscher. I would like to know how the Minister built his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u213	The first block is crisis jobs. Then I go into the quarantine arrangements/package, then a few things about the NOW and finally the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u214	SZW is good for the budget; that is fast. Just a few more things. I think it can be made concrete with the municipalities very quickly. If you're gonna ask it out in all the departments, I think you're gonna get some very interesting information. But it's sticking now, because municipalities aren't willing to take the risk or have the money to take boas, for example, while there are people out there in the event sector who have the diplomas and aren't getting to work. My suggestion would then be to go to the municipalities on the way to 17 November with an offer so that you don't look at each other. Start by creating numbers of those basic jobs and then learn along the way, otherwise it will take too long. So that's my question. Two. Also enable municipalities to work with this from their own files and help people to work in those crisis jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u215	Certainly, that second point. This is also part of the regional labour market regions, where the municipalities also have their own welfare population, but also the UWV, for example. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I agree with the first point, but I think it is broader, not just for the municipalities themselves. It is about compliance, but it is also about educational institutions, for example, it is about care institutions that have needs at local level that they can fill and that we do not have to settle from The Hague, because then it takes a very long time and we are all writing notes, when we want to act quickly now. I therefore fully agree with what Mr Asscher said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u216	Secondly, and finally, on this point. Mr Van Weyenberg just said on behalf of the coalition: the sky is the limit. He's left the room again. I thought that was a bit exaggerated, but I do think it is important to make it clear on behalf of the cabinet, in the direction of care, education and the municipalities, that the money here is not the biggest problem and that the Empire is willing and able to record the means to make this possible. Then there can be a tempo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u217	Of course, we always have to handle taxpayers' money carefully, so the sky is not the limit. We need to see today if it makes sense and what it needs. You don't want people getting in the way of each other. I don't think that's true, but we need to do it nicely. I feel wide in the cabinet, but also in your Chamber, the concerns about education, about health care, about source and contact research, about the GGDs. A two-sided cutting sword, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u218	A personal fact, Mr. Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u219	No, I wanted to ask a question. Although, you're right, Mr. Chairman. If you are told by the PvdA that you should not spend money too quickly, I will of course get a position in my group. That's right; that doesn't happen often. What I meant was that that's also my appeal to the cabinet, and that's that we want to look for real societal bottlenecks. Whether there are 5,000, 10,000 or 20,000, I honestly dare not say. I hope the content here is leading. That is my first question. The second question is that I hope that we can choose a form that does not allow the government to enter into all complex discussions about the relationship with social security, but simply gives these institutions maximum room to attract people themselves, for example. Otherwise, you'll have a very intertwined relationship with social security and I think it's going to be an irrefutable blur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u220	Also here I fully agree, but still I'm afraid that if you don't guide it a bit well, a lot of questions will come up. Think of the example of the catering entrepreneur from Breda, who is probably using the NOW scheme but is about to come into discussion again whether or not it should be included in the turnover. The answer is, of course, yes, because we cannot distinguish in the implementation. We need to put that in a very neat order to prevent you from getting accidents later; that's why we need to take those careful steps. We are already working on this, but I agree with what Mr Van Weyenberg said: it is in line with the things that are already there, because that is the fastest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u221	Yeah, it fits in with the things that already exist. I understand that it's complicated when it gets to the NOW, but if you can give people a temporary position in education so classes don't have to be sent home... those are probably not full-time teachers, but if they can make a different contribution, as a government, you don't want to come up with all kinds of complicated social security discussions, just give the schools the opportunity to start recruiting with temporary contracts or something. That's just a little bit of what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u222	Yeah, we're thinking about that, too, so we're thinking the same thing. That's a good thing. I'm trying to quickly answer a lot of questions that have been asked about quarantine. As an analytical figure, I hear suggestions and questions from your Chamber that take advantage of various points. Mr Van Weyenberg made such a suggestion and said: how can we tempt people to stay home when they have to stay in quarantine? For example, we know from RIVM figures that 20% is leaving the house anyway. That's not good for fighting the virus. That's one thing. The other thing is flex workers,zzp'ers. How can we tempt them to stay home too? They leave the house because otherwise, for example, they have no income. That's a second argument. A third argument, I thought Mr Stoffer said, is, for example, a discussion with SMEs in the Netherlands about the payment of wages in the event of illness and the costs associated with it for employers. A fourth element is: how do you deal with quarantine policy? How long do you have to stay home? That's more of a virological aspect. What's a responsible period of time not to show up for work, to prevent you from infecting your colleagues? With various departments, so with Mr Wiebes, Mr Hoekstra, but also Mr De Jonge, we are ending what is possible. In this field, it is very complicated that we have the payment of wages in case of illness, so employers themselves are responsible for the payment of wages during a sick period. In other words, we do not have any data from employers or any data from employees who avail themselves of this scheme. That data is not available, not at the UWV and not at the SVB. So we don't have a single handle to do this in a targeted way. That is unsatisfactory, so our search is not over. We are looking for other ways to ensure that we can do justice to the questions of your Chamber, to the concerns of employers, but also to the concerns of the unions, who say: people are coming to work anyway, even though they have fever, for example. But it's really very complicated. We've had contact with the UWV, with UVB, with the SVB, with the RVO. All kinds of variants have been explored and walked by, but in the implementation it also comes on top of all the implementation arrangements we already have, with the NOW and the TVL that are currently running. I can promise that as a cabinet we will pick up this whole package and try to develop it further. Last week you saw something in the media about vouchers. Mr Van Weyenberg asked for that. There's all kinds of ideas we're working on right now. If we have a complete package, we'll come back to you with it. We also take Mrs Palland's suggestion about the municipalities. We also include the discussion about flex workers/zzp'ers. We'll take all those elements with us. That's what we want to work out, but I do want to highlight one thing very clearly. That is a point of expectation management, which Mr Wiebes has just mentioned. We simply cannot do some things, because we either do not have the data or cannot provide targeted compensation, or because our implementing organisations are really heavily burdened. So we're doing our best to think about this creatively. I hope to be able to come to your Chamber shortly with a little more information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u223	I'm glad the Minister is making every effort to find opportunities. I'm just trying to understand. Because someone doesn't just sit at home. Whoever got a call, or an app, so there's a reason, isn't there? Isn't that traceable or traceable, so someone can prove that he's been called by the G.G.D., the G.P., or anyone else?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u224	Yes, the Corona Melder. That's right, but that's the beginning. Then we don't know what anyone deserves, how long someone has to stay in quarantine, how long someone is sick or how long someone has to wait for the test results. We don't have all that data. The UWV doesn't have it and neither does the SVB. This makes it impossible to implement targeted compensation both on the employees' side and on the employers' side. We have also thought about more generic alternatives, so that you would, so to speak, compensate a fixed amount. But that's very unfocused again. A lot of people can work from home, for example. Those people are quarantined, but they can work fine and say "I don't need it" while some other workers have to physically appear at work and cannot do it at that time. So you're going to make up for it very unfocusedly. Then you also miss your goal, because in the end it aims to ensure that people can stay at home from a health perspective, but that all people who are employable also go back to work. That's the dilemma we keep struggling with. With that, I hope to have answered a lot of questions at once. Again, as far as expectations management is concerned, I must stress once more that I am not promising anything here. It is really incredibly complicated and we are really busy with our implementation organisations to keep all social security schemes and all TVL schemes going. I think the questions are correct and I also see the importance of a proper quarantine scheme for the control of the virus. It is also our duty to do our best to achieve something workable, but again: I promise nothing. Then there are a few questions about the NOW, Madam President. The first question was from Mr De Jong in response to Mr Wiebes' replies. There's two things going on. Let me begin by acknowledging that I have spoken to a great many entrepreneurs who say that in the first period perhaps 60% or 65% of their wage costs have been paid and not 80% or 90%. I recognize that. There are a number of arguments why this is so. One is revenue. Mr Wiebes just said the same thing. Sales were indeed made, for example in the first weeks of March and, more importantly, in July, when part of the measures had been repealed. That's one reason. The second reason is that the advance payment was 80% of the subsidy amount. That's what's paid out. It's only when we pay the remaining 20%. There is often confusion in that too. The question then is whether the remaining 20% will still be there. It may also be that in the meantime the wage bill has fallen or turnover has been higher than previously expected. I know, for example, that a lot of entrepreneurs, catering entrepreneurs, have reported 100% turnover losses throughout the period March-April-May or April-May-June, whereas they have actually achieved a lot of turnover in the weeks they were open, but have also achieved turnover with take-out meals. Then there will be another reckoning in the other direction. That's a second argument. The third argument concerned the factor being compensated for employers' costs. In the NOW 1 that was a factor 0.3, so 1.3 times the wage bill. In the NOW 2 it was 1.4 times, because the catering industry rightly said: with 1.3 we do not come out. That is why we have increased that amount in the NOW 2 programme. So that's one. I recognize those sounds. The second is the question of whether there is any austerity. Mr Wiebes also said that there was no de facto austerity between 1 October and 1 January. I agree with Mr De Jong that the percentage is going to go from 90 to 80. That's right. At the same time, wages may fall, for example because people have retired, because people have indeed left or because the employer has made an appointment with employees to accept a voluntary salary reduction. Unlike NOW 1 and NOW 2, this wage drop is not compensated. In other words, the subsidy remains in place. That is really different in terms of systems than in NOW 1 and NOW 2. In particular, in the sectors affected by a decline in turnover over a longer period of time, for example, catering, events and art and culture, we can see that the wage bill has indeed fallen in recent months and that the compensation is higher. Apart from that, Mr Wiebes' TVL scheme is also wider. That's what I wanted to say. Mr De Jong is right. As from 1 January, the plans contain an additional step down, both in the turnover threshold and in the reimbursement rate. In the letter we indicated that we are going to weigh that again at the end of this month or early December, depending on the situation we have at the time. Sorry for the long answer. It took me a while to tear it apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u225	Were you done with this, with the NOW?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u226	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u227	Very briefly, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u228	On balance, therefore, an entrepreneur has nothing to do with this. Because the entrepreneur simply says: if I first got 90%, which has now gone to 80, which is going to be 70 and about 60, then I experience that as a austerity. Mr Koolmees says that, on balance, it is not austerity. Then you get a word game, but I'd rather side with that entrepreneur who gets into trouble. My question is whether Mr Koolmees can promise earlier than 1 January, let us say today, that what is planned for 1 January will not, at least, happen. So I ask him if he can say that we will leave it as it is now and from 1 January we are not going to reduce it, we are not going to let it take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u229	I wasn't trying to play a game at all, absolutely not. I'm just trying to describe how the system is different now in three than in two and in one. Can I finish, please? The letter also states that we, as a cabinet, are going to make a weighing moment at the end of November or early December, depending on the circumstances at the time. Another story comes from that, because things do change in the system. It is true that the percentage will fall from 1 January, but the possibility of adjusting your wage bill will also be increased. So you need to think about how to do this in a sensible way, with which the entrepreneurs are most helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u230	I also read the letter, so I really don't need a list of what's in that letter. I read that letter and I spoke to entrepreneurs and employees. Mr Wiebes just indicated that there are not so many bankruptcies in the hospitality industry, but it is currently raining on requests regarding the question: how should I deal with bankruptcy? You can tell by everything that it's gonna be a huge mess with that sector if something isn't done for that group. Of course things are happening and entrepreneurs are happy about that, but at the same time they also see that pieces are being cut down. The only question that lies here now is: do not wait until the end of November or early December, because those entrepreneurs do not have that time at all; just say today that the austerities that continue on 1 January will at least go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u231	This is the number of times...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u232	Why doesn't the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u233	The three ministers have said that we are not going to do that now, but we are going to do that at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u234	You've asked this six or seven times now, Mr. De Jong. Mr Van Kent, please also briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u235	With the increasing number of infections, with the closure of the catering industry and with the far-reaching measures announced in seven minutes' time this evening, does the Minister still think it reasonable that an announcement should be made that the aid packages should be scaled down rather than scaled up? Is the Minister prepared to say here to all employees and entrepreneurs in the Netherlands: we are in a bar, we are in a bad time and it is not a matter of the cabinet that we are going to scale the packages; we are going to build them up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u236	For the sake of completeness, as a cabinet, we have just said that we will continue the support packages until 1 July next year. That's one. Two. It is true that there are a few steps down when it comes to austerity. But we have also said that if the situation changes, we will keep our finger on the wrist and we will make the choice in time whether or not we will allow this austerity to continue. That's what the letter says. Mr De Jong has asked a number of times about this. That's what we're gonna do. Three. We have now made an additional package with additional support for the hospitality and culture, because we keep our finger on the wrist constantly. I am simply not going to be fooled by the fact that we are not constantly adjusting and constantly keeping our finger on the wrist to save the entrepreneurs, and thus employment. That's what we're doing all the time. Every week we are in consultation with the unions and employers. So, yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u237	The cabinet is about to announce measures in five minutes and this minister is not prepared to say on behalf of the cabinet to all those people, all those workers who are afraid to lose their jobs and all those entrepreneurs who are afraid that their beautiful business is going to die, "Don't worry. You can continue to count on us. We are not going to reduce these aid packages, we are going to build them up. In other words, the announced reduction of the NOW aid, of that wage support, we are taking it off the table." Can you just say that now, at 6:55 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u238	This rhetorical trick by Mr Van Kent shoots me a little in the wrong throat. Mr Wiebes has already said in his first term that we are going to do so and that we will soon be informing your Chamber about this again. Mr Van Kent is making it a game again, while we are constantly trying to support, steer and, where necessary, provide additional support. Mr Van Kent is turning it into another rhetorical trick, and that's how he scares entrepreneurs. I really don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u239	This minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u240	No, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u241	...announces a reduction in the aid package to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u242	Mr. Van Kent!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u243	...and blame me for frightening entrepreneurs. That really is the world upside down!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u244	Good. You made that clear. I suggest you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u245	We have announced a austerity of the support package and we have also announced in the letter we are discussing today that we are going to weigh that up again to see if that is justified. That's what we wrote down and what we announced to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u246	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u247	Mr Wiebes has just said that we are going to respond to what is being announced tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u248	I don't think you'll get together in five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u249	I'm also afraid that's not gonna work, Mr. Chairman. Mr Aartsen asked about start-ups. That's a complicated subject. Some companies did succeed because there was a reference period of turnover to achieve this. If that reference period is not available, it is also impossible to determine the decrease in turnover. Unfortunately, this does not make it possible for all start-ups to provide such compensation. This also applies to start-ups, companies that have gone bankrupt and made a start-up. If there is not such a reference period, it is really in the air punching what then the turnover drop is. So that is impossible for us, no matter how annoying that may be. Mr Bruins asked whether the government, the implementing organisations, could still cope with the implementation of the package. I said something about that in my introduction. That's a serious point of interest to me. This applies not only to the UWV or the SVB but also to the RVO and within my department. Think of the implementation of policies. So we're really trying to keep a finger on the wrist here to keep it from running us over the shoes. There are a lot of people, Mr Wiebes, who have just said that evenings, weekends are about to keep those packages up and give entrepreneurs support. As far as additional questions are concerned, I have to say honestly: this is no longer possible. After TOFA 1, I also told your Chamber: I am not going to do TOFA 2 anymore; that is too much of a burden for the UWV, where I draw the line. I will often say that to you, even when it comes to the expectations for a quarantine package. I therefore agree with Mr Bruis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u250	How many questions do you have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u251	Just a few questions. I can do it very quickly. Two more cubes and a few more interruptions. Mr Bruins has asked for training and retraining. We are now working very hard with social partners, with municipalities and UWV to work it out. In the regions we will start very quickly, for example in the three regions with the biggest bottlenecks. We are working very hard on sectoral training and support. I can tell you more about this in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u252	I see the Members of Parliament getting a little impatient because, of course, they want to follow the press conference. Is it convenient that we immediately after... Or do you want to? I'm going to consult now, but that's not convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u253	I have a few more questions. Unless you say, in the second term, I'll give you a little more room to answer the questions. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u254	Shall we take the second-term questions? Mr. Bruins, are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u255	I have a few other questions. Well, that's it, then. That's not much anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u256	I see an angry look from Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u257	It's very hunted now. There are still a few serious questions and there will be some more interruptions. I'd be happy to pursue the first term after the break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u258	Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u259	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u260	Then I'll suspend until...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u261	But can we agree to continue with the second term after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u262	Yes, of course, you can. Then I'll suspend until 8:45. Then we start with the rest of the questions of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u263	I give the floor to Mr Van Kent, at least on a point of order, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u264	I would indeed like to make a point of order. We have just seen a press conference in which very, very heavy measures are announced. These are very tough measures for many people in the Netherlands, but also for companies and employees. That is what this debate is about. I would therefore ask the Minister to briefly address the question of what this means for the aid packages and perhaps to go a little further into the question of whether this will lead to changes and, if necessary, to explain them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u265	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Wiebes has already announced in his first term, we are going to do so. We're going to inform the Chamber about that at a later date. There will first be a debate in the Chamber tomorrow with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health on this package. Mr Wiebes has already said that we will keep our finger on the pulse, that we will monitor this and that we will be returning to your Chamber shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u266	Finally, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u267	With a finger on the wrist and monitors, for example, the workers and employers in the travel sector who have just been told that the travel restrictions run up to the duration of the second package of aid have not been helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u268	This is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u269	Then it's an interruption, too. The NOW will be completed on 1 January and the travel restrictions will run until January. This is precisely the support package that we are discussing here tonight. The cabinet has announced that it will be closed down. It has just announced, also on behalf of this Minister, that measures will go up to that support package. I would therefore like to ask this Minister once again in connection with the press conference: is he prepared to say that the withdrawal of the aid package will not be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u270	Mr Van Kent, this is not a point of order but a point of substance. This point has been raised to four, five, six times this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u271	But apparently not enough. This is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u272	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u273	I want the cabinet to deliver, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u274	This is not a point of order either. You're saying you want a letter. Well, then we're just gonna have an arrangement of work, I understand. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u275	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to ask a question on what the Minister has said here. He says, "We'll get back to this soon." My only question then is: can the Minister indicate when and can he indicate when that letter will be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u276	In a few weeks Mr Wiebes has said, right? Let me ask him, did you give him a time stamp? No, as soon as possible, the time stamp. That'll be in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u277	Then I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the remaining questions that have been asked in the first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u278	I had just had some questions about the NOW. I just saw Mr. Aartsen get up. So I'm going to give him another chance to put in an interruption. I think it's about start-ups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u279	Exactly. I do have a question about start-ups. That's where it gets really tight every now and then. I understand it's very difficult to find a good reference month for that. On the other hand, I had asked the same question to Minister Wiebes about the TVL and there a minimum amount was used. At least these companies have something so they can move forward. Can the Minister promise that he will see if such a variant in the NOW is possible? I understand that that never fits 100%, but can we look at some kind of basic reference point to make that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u280	I'm just reading what's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u281	It may also be written, because it is really very technical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u282	My point is that we've looked at this a few times. I've already made a few promises to look at this. Some of the companies have also succeeded. There we have been able to make an adjustment by postponing the reference month. But if there isn't, there's no basis. Then there is a right to the TVL, but no right to the NOW, because we just don't know what the fall in sales is. That makes it complicated and also susceptible to fraud. That is why we said at some point: we cannot do that now. I can make you one promise, and that is that I'm going to look at it one more time, but I don't want to raise expectations, because we've turned the UWV three or four times upside down to see what's possible or not. But, sorry folks, I'm gonna take one more look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u283	I had asked another question about 100% NOW when employers start putting people in that support; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u284	Sorry, one more time. Can you clarify something about your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u285	My proposal was this. If employers in the catering industry or events with their employees say, "Oh, these people could make coffee in a nursing home, offer extra help and so on, couldn't those entrepreneurs be rewarded by paying the NOW 100%?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u286	That's one of the questions we're taking into account in the elaboration of the corona lane package. On the one hand, we need to consider how to deal with the compensation paid by one employer to another. Otherwise you will double-subsidise, and that is of course a bit crazy, because then you will get both the NOW grant and the wage costs paid by the other employer. So we need to take a look at that. Conversely, I do understand what Mrs Van Brenn is asking. You must have some incentive to do this, too. Both elements need to be mapped out for a moment how this could be done and whether it is feasible at all. Because of course the UWV simply uses the wage bill of the company in which the people work. That is the only thing we can control and which is also somewhat fraud-proof. So we really need to take a good look at this. But I do understand the question. You actually want some kind of reward for good behavior. That's the thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u287	Yes, plus that it can also be that they are not jobs, for example, but just volunteering, extra support or whatever. It could be. That's what people say: that's very nice at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u288	But then you really find yourself in a different comparison again, because then you have no turnover. Then it's more about some kind of consideration or reciprocity. Whether we can arrange and maintain that, I am a little reluctant to do so, because it is about a lot of companies. The NOW 2 already covers 65,000 companies. I don't think we can practically give that hands and feet. So I'm a little careful with that. I am more concerned with the situation in which one company takes over employees from another company and pays them back, how to put these incentives into practice. I understand that, on both sides. You don't want an over-subsidies, but you don't want a fine for that either, so to speak. But if you're going to link all kinds of other things to that, then it's going to be very complicated for the performer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u289	Mr. Van Haga, a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u290	Now that the Minister is making promises to look at something again: can the Minister promise to look again at the third declaration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u291	I'll get back to you on that. That question is still in my set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u292	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u293	Before dinner, I had just said a few words about Mr Bruins' question about training, retraining and the employment agreement. Since we now have a little more peace, I would like to go into that more fully. There are thus several pathways, for example those 50,000 development opinions from Mr Smeulders' motion. They will be available from 1 December. From 2021 onwards, we have 30 million available for training pathways that will be made available. From this week onwards, partnerships of sectors, social partners and R&D funds can apply for funding for training pathways, which can be deployed quickly. So you can see that things are already starting or starting again along different lines, like those development advices. In addition, we are working very hard with the 72 million from the sectoral funds and with the 195 million from the missed regional budgets. So we would start with three sectors, three regions, where the problems are greatest. We are rolling all this out step by step, in fast-track shipping, much faster than usual, but it must be regulated and corrected as well, so that there is no improper use, abuse or all kinds of other things. But we're working hard to get this done. As a result, Mr Bruins asked a question about youth unemployment. The 1.4 billion of supplementary social accompanying policies also have separate funds for tackling youth unemployment. This has been achieved after consultation in the Catshuis with Generation Y, so it is called, I believe, and also with the youth unions. That money was invested with the municipalities. Mr Bruins also asked a follow-up question about the employment agreement. He's worried about this group. I share those concerns, because it is still a group that can fall between shore and ship. They are now active in the regular labour market, but they are at extra risk of being affected by corona phenomena. I agree with Mr Bruins that it is best for this group to be able to work with the trusted employer, which they already have a connection with. With the NOW scheme, we therefore support the continued payment of wages. In addition, as part of the crisis services, we have made available EUR 36 million to keep people from the target group in the labour market. This temporary incentive for the job appointment is currently being developed with the most involved stakeholders. So your concerns are shared and this is taken seriously in the elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u294	Mr Bruins, and then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u295	That's a great answer. What I have seen is that in the third aid package there is also extra money for the sw companies, just for the higher influx. But I think that we can indeed use a lot more entrepreneurs to prevent that higher influx. Employers have a lot of facilities to help people retrain or from work to work, to ensure that they do not flow into a sw business. At such a time, such an employer saves the government a lot of money. I would like the cabinet to be able to talk specifically about this with the employers: how can the employers ensure that the vulnerable target group within the industry can move from place to place, so that those people can actually continue within the work they are used to, and not flow out? 'Cause someday those people are gonna be incredibly needy again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u296	I understand that very well, and I'm happy to admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u297	It was just about the NOW and its future. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs now undertake to come forward within a few weeks with some sort of update: what are we going to do with the support package 3.2? That is just what I am calling it, also because of the press conference; we now have 3.1. In order to communicate at one time and to have as much predictability as possible, I would like it if that letter would already contain an answer to the following questions. What are we gonna do on January 1st? What do we do with a possible phasing-out? What do we do about measures that might end differently? Do you want to extend it or not? Some also end in the months after that. Is there anything to say about that? In that way, that information will come together and also get that date of 1 January and the possible phasing out just a place in that one letter. Otherwise, it'll be something new every week. I believe that this also gives a little more clarity to many entrepreneurs, employees and self-employed people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u298	Yeah, I think that's a good idea. I've just given a time indication of a few weeks. So we can mix it up nicely with the weighing moment. I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u299	That could also mean that we are not making any motions on this at the moment. Ministers indicated that they did not want to take a decision on this today, but at that time the reaction was that the weighing time would come in December. That would be irresponsible now, I think, towards those entrepreneurs, because that means even more uncertainty. Can I understand why we will have an answer to that question in November? That would at least be enough for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u300	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u301	I think it's wise to do it like this. We will, of course, have the Social Affairs budget in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u302	To do it before then? No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u303	It would be very nice if it could be done before then, because then we will have the budget debate, which is scheduled for two days in plenary...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u304	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u305	...can use it to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u306	But then only I will be here with you in this Chamber, and then I will have to miss the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economic Affairs, and the boy band will not be complete. Of course, we can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u307	Well, you're very good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u308	No, but seriously. It is now 3 November and we really need to think about this. We also need to get the analysis right. For example, we have just been asked, I believe by Mr Aartsen, about the reserves of entrepreneurs. So I understand the question very well and we have already agreed. 17 November actually means, in our system, that a week earlier you have to be done with the coordination in the cabinet and with social partners. That's just not gonna work. So it's gonna be sooner after, and then the three of us will come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u309	Short question, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u310	I understand the argumentation and the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u311	But?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u312	But... Maybe I'm going through Mr Van Weyenberg's call for it all to be done at once. However, since this is about the 2021 budget and I believe that we should be able to discuss it in the budget, I would ask the Minister whether it would be possible to send to the Chamber how the NOW and the Tozo are going to proceed before the budget is discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u313	I understand the technical request, but I cannot agree to it, because then it will indeed become a patchwork. Then we have to respond separately to the NOW and then back to all kinds of other special sectors that are being hit now, potential. That's gonna be very chaotic. Then we'll be sitting here every week with a new letter, and that's exactly what I'm trying to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u314	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u315	I have now arrived at the other block, because there has been a mess of questions asked. Mr Van Haga had a question about the third party declaration for the fall in turnover. I did indeed send a letter to the account of NOW 1 when it was established. We have gone through a very careful path on the statements we ask of entrepreneurs when it comes to accountability for the subsidy. We are, of course, doing so because of the risk of abuse and misuse. That's what we're trying to prevent. As Mr Wiebes said, there are occasional signals about companies really taking advantage of the corona aid. We don't want that. That is why we have created an escalation ladder, a proportional ladder: who should account for what subsidy? Employers who have received a concession from the NOW of between €25,000 and €125,000, i.e. an advance of €20,000 to €100,000, must issue an expert statement, a third party declaration. That's not an audit report, because it's very expensive. It must therefore be a third-party statement by an independent consultant or an accountant who can give such a statement, in which he indicates that the fall in turnover reflects a true picture, I shall say. If you asked for an audit report, there would be a lot of costs. So this is a cheap variant, but at the same time I think that we can ask entrepreneurs to do so, especially because it is tax money between €25,000 and €125,000. Those aren't small amounts. No explanation is requested for the amounts below, but the above amounts are therefore subject to a graduation of heavier audit reports. I am not using the right terms now, because they are all defined in specific terms in the annual report. That is the philosophy we used in the reckoning of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u316	Do you have any other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u317	As a result, Mr Stoffer also asked about the audit report on this point. This concerns M&D policy, anti-abuse and misuse policy. To counter that, we have imposed that escalation ladder and different accountability obligations. Over €125,000 or an advance of €100,000, an audit report is therefore required. We are also trying to join the subsidy framework for the government in order to have as much clarity and clarity as possible. The combination of no statement, third party declaration and account statement shall be equal to the subsidy amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u318	Have you answered all the other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u319	No, there are a few other questions, but this is about the statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u320	I understand the argument, but of course there is often an internal accounting department that could do that. But he can't do that. And then there's an external accountant. So now you have to look for a third who could do that for example for €500. Well, fine. But you can also go to your own accountant and then you just pay a little more money for it. So I think it's a bit of an overkill that only sees the problem of the few people who want to cheat. So I would say: is it not a simpler solution to say that you can also do it internally, through your own accounting, and that you then get a check afterwards by your accountant? I object to the screaming from the audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u321	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u322	It happens to me that people start yelling here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u323	Who was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u324	I don't know, but people are screaming: oh, fraud; they're all nice and nice, but they're all civil servants who have never had a company before. I would just like to make a comment and ask whether it can be settled internally rather than externally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u325	Okay. Don't you want to be annoying anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u326	No, but, sorry. Now it goes on, because you also make it a caricature. It's not "doing annoying." It happens all the time around here. I find it annoying that, when I ask a question here, people sneak up on me and act weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u327	Yeah, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u328	That's annoying. I made a justified remark about companies that are now going bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u329	You've made your point, but sometimes Members of Parliament call for something. That is also part of the fact that certain emotions sometimes play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u330	If that's the mores, I'm gonna stick to that from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u331	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u332	I understand Mr Van Haga's question very well. That is why we have also tried to request a proportional statement, so not a full statement of auditors for amounts below €125.000. Indeed, this would cost too much for entrepreneurs. So you can have an accountant's statement, too. But I do want a third-party statement from someone who looks at it externally and states that it is a true picture, a good picture of the fall in turnover, because I also want to see a proper handling of taxpayers' money. That's what we all want here. This has also been asked a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u333	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u334	I understand. Is it not then a solution to allow companies to do it afterwards through an audit report, which is simply included in the annual accounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u335	Oh, yeah. That possibility exists anyway if you already have a normal financial statement. That's why we have extended the settlement period to cover the same amount of money, I say from my head.36 weeks, in order to be able to join the normal accounting system of a company, so that you don't have to incur double costs. That also means that the settlement period can take quite a long time. A company has the opportunity, so to speak, to wait until April, May, until that audit report arrives, and therefore does not have to incur double costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u336	My question was about the same thing, but it was a different one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u337	The other way, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u338	If you apply for €100,000 and only get €30,000, you'll be stuck with that statement. You pay a lot of money for that. In proportion, it doesn't really get you that crazy. So my question is, could you make a voluntary refund so you can get out of that statement? So that's actually a pragmatic thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u339	I understand him, but I'm afraid it's going to be very complicated to do this. Now there are entrepreneurs who have applied for NOW 2, but say: I've turned so much revenue that I wasn't actually entitled to NOW 2, so can I refund it? But with that they put the UWV, paradoxically, in big trouble, because NOW 1, NOW 2 and NOW 3 schemes, payouts, advance payments and debits are going to run through each other. So that doesn't help with the implementation. But I'm gonna go see if this is possible if you have a recalibrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u340	I like that, because I wanted to say that if it gets too complicated, it doesn't get anything, because then it's going to cost a lot of money on the other hand. But I like this one. If the minister looks at it and it's easy, we're gonna do it. And if you don't, it'll stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u341	I have received a lot of signals about NOW 2 in particular during the last period. When companies applied in June, they really thought it would go down. But afterwards it turned out that the months of June, July, August very good... I go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u342	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u343	Mr De Jong asked not to introduce the power test as of 1 April 2021. In this package, I shall say 3.1, we have, of course, postponed it because we have taken additional measures. The weighing moment comes later. Then we come back to the follow-up to the package. Several parties have asked for a reflection on the Tozo partner test. That is a recurring point in these debates. As of 1 June, the partner test was introduced in the Tozo 2. The cabinet does not think it is a good idea to abolish that partner income test again. This is partly due to the point made by Mr Smeulders about aligning with the Participation Act. Of course, a partner test has also been introduced in the welfare benefits. It's been around for years. The Tozo is of course based on the Bbz. The Bbz is again based on the Participation Act, in terms of legal framework. So it's really gonna be too far apart. I don't think that's a good idea. Moreover, it is also about adapting to the new reality, to what we decided on 1 June to introduce into the Tozo 2 package. Motions have been tabled on this very often. It has also been voted on a number of times. The cabinet doesn't think it's a good idea to get this back now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u344	I'd like to see how many questions you have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u345	Six more, on all different subjects. This is the other block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u346	A brief question, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u347	The difference is that the Tozo is used by people who are no longer able to carry out their work through public health measures. That is an important difference between the Tozo and the assistance. Now, for example, very new groups in the cultural sector are obliged by the public authorities to cease their work. In addition, they lose their income. They don't get compensation if they have a partner who works at the Kruidvat, for example, behind the cash register. There's the great injustice. That is why many times in the Chamber a lot of different people have made a point of this. That's why I'm asking you again: take that partner test off the table. It is extremely unfair, especially in view of the measures announced on behalf of your cabinet this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u348	Again, I think we have had six motions on this point. Six times we didn't recommend this. We're not going to do it. My position on this is not changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u349	Then I'd like to make the proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u350	But there's a difference between the welfare and the Tozo, isn't there? Surely it's a huge difference when people by pointing out the government in the service of public health...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u351	The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u352	...have to put down their work, or because it went wrong in a company because it wasn't healthy or for very different reasons? Now the government says: for the sake of public health, close the doors. They will then be told: because your partner works in home care, at the Kruidvat or in the supermarket, you will receive €0 support. Shame!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u353	That is why we have made the whole support package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u354	There are, of course, also people in the assistance whose WW has ended because the sectors in which they worked have been stalled or there was very little work. I have another question about the self-employed. I asked: can we take another very short look at the partner test? It always seems everything or nothing with the partner test: either completely on, or completely off. I have also been looking for it in previous debates. I know I'm not asking the question for the first time, but I'd like to ask the Cabinet to explore very carefully once more whether differentiation is necessary. The answer so far was no. I know. That sucks. I would have liked to have looked into it once more, also with a view to the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u355	We have found that out, for example, in connection with Mr Asscher's question as to whether you could have another partner income test. Then you would set it higher than the social minimum, which is now the reference income in both the Participation Act and the Bbz. That's what we figured out. It is not feasible for the municipalities in the short term, and therefore not an alternative in the short term. It's in the systems. Bas van 't Wout has also recently informed you about this. So that's not a possibility. That brings me to Mr Smeulder's question about the income of the crisis. I know this is a wish from GroenLinks. In part, I have tried to accommodate this in the previous debate by responding to Mr Smeulder's motion calling for people up to 27 years of age to have access to assistance and guidance to work. We're also thinking about people falling between shore and ship. Mrs Palland also asked about that group, which I just treated at the quarantine package. For us, it is constantly a search for whether we can do something with people we don't see now in, for example, welfare or WW benefit, and whether we can help with accompanying policies. But as a cabinet, we are not planning a general income from crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u356	I would ask the Minister to take this into account in the letter that comes in a few weeks' time, also because we are eight months away and many people are through or almost through their WW. So this subject is getting more and more urgent. If we think that the crisis is going to last until next summer, because hopefully there will be a vaccine and we can go back to normal as best we can, then we shouldn't end up pushing people into poverty, because they're going to suffer for years, and so are we as a society. Is the cabinet willing to look again after all? I understand that there may not be a total income of crisis the way we want it, but would the cabinet like to see if there is any tailor-made work for the gaps that are now there, with people who are really going to get into trouble wrongly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u357	We do that all the time. In our consultation with the trade unions, too, the trade unions are constantly calling for attention to be paid to this. In the letter about TOFA I showed that we have investigated in six different ways how you could shape that. In the end, only one form, the TOFA, remained. In hindsight, I am not very happy with that, I say in all openness and honesty. The use was also just disappointing. We expected 100,000 people. Eventually, it's 9,500. So I'm holding a finger on the wrist. Yeah, we'll keep looking at it. But I also want to manage expectations again, because they are just all kinds of new, separate schemes, on top of the regular social security that should actually be a safety net for everyone in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u358	I get that. The TOFA was a great try, but I don't think it was a great success. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u359	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u360	What we tried last month, of course, is to stretch the Participation Act slightly, for a limited period of time, to ensure that just a little more people have access to it. I would ask the Minister to take another look at that. I know it's all very difficult politically, but I think that's the easiest way to really do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u361	I'm sticking to my previous answer. We keep a finger on the wrist all the time. We will continue to take this with us, even in the coming period. But here too I am guarding against raising too many expectations that I cannot live up to. I have two more questions, or actually one question and one motion. In my opinion, it was Mrs Palland and Mr Bruins who asked for the attention of prostitution, because there is a risk of exclusion. That was Mr Bruins, I understand. I have "CDA" here, but it was the Christian Union. Can the cabinet, together with the municipalities, see if compensation is needed? The Secretary of State has sent a comprehensive letter, I read here in my answers. Like others, sex workers can benefit from the existing schemes, such as the Tozo, possibly the WW if they are employees, or the general assistance. I heard Mr Bruins say at dinner break that people are often not entitled to this kind of arrangement, but the Secretary of State has sent a comprehensive letter to written questions specifically about this category. I would therefore like to refer to that, for Mr Bruins. The final point is Mr Azarkan's motion on discrimination and the risk of growing inequality. We are, of course, working on the action plan on labour market discrimination. The Secretary of State is working on a separate law to impose fines. As a cabinet, we are also engaged in broader discussions about discrimination in Dutch society, for example on the occasion of Black Lives Matter. So I think it's a sympathetic motion, which I like to give to Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u362	Mr President, two points have not been answered. That's why I'm bringing them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u363	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u364	These are my questions about the Tozo and the border workers. The question about the situation in which you live abroad but have a company in the Netherlands has not been answered. Those people don't get Tozo pay. I had also made the point of whether this is not the time to bring forward open hair, so that people can get back to work very easily. You give your name and your phone number, and you can get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u365	It's true I hadn't answered it yet. The first question was about the border entrepreneurs. This has been discussed a number of times, including in this debate. There has been a number of discussions on whether or not the Tozo is exportable and so on. The Secretary of State has also been in consultation with the European Commission and with the border countries around us. The cabinet maintains the view that the Tozo is not available to border entrepreneurs, because it is based on the Participation Act and the Bbz. Moreover, these entrepreneurs may be eligible for the Fixed Charges Meeting and the other schemes available, but not for income support. We've talked about that before. Then the last point, the open ring. So that's about hiring staff without application procedures. Of course, sectors are themselves responsible for this. Companies that want to get started with this can report to the Start Foundation, which has started a pilot with this. This month the evaluation report of the pilot Open Hiring will appear. We supported that pilot as a ministry. I'll inform your room about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u366	Let's talk about the workers in prostitution. Thanks for the answer. I remember the letter sent by the Secretary of State, but it actually consists of two parts. He refers to the Tozo and to the WW: there are all kinds of arrangements. He says: and there's always an emergency shelter if they don't fall under it. That's what's happening in that sector. But then it's about housing. This is what I'm talking about. That should appeal to a D66 minister. These ladies are usually ladies and gentlemen do respectable work, but are not always well registered and certainly do not have a certain contract of employment. They want to fall between shore and ship in the regulations of Minister Koolmees' ministry. Could the Ministry talk to the municipalities to see if it is possible to tailor them to this not even very large target group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u367	I want to look at it. At least I'm asking the Secretary of State for the meeting with the municipalities. I can't totally judge it, because it's not my wallet. I can take it back to the Secretary of State and inform you about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u368	Good. Thank you. Mrs Palland has another question, so please stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u369	We have talked about quarantine and see how we can accommodate people in it, but I had also asked two questions about the uncertainty in the rules on border quarantine obligations, such as maintenance technicians who have to cross borders. What does that mean before going into quarantine? Are there any exceptions? Is the Minister still able to answer that question, or does he come back to it in the letter he is sending us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u370	I will come back to that later, because it has another relationship with tonight's press conference. So I'll come back to that later. Of course, we simply had the arrangement that people who live in Belgium and work in the Netherlands in health care, for example, could just cross the border in the previous period. But I'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u371	Good. Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Asscher of the PvdA. I thought Mr Van Kent was going to make a point of order with Mr Asscher, but fortunately he is moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u372	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many people, including young people and flex workers, have lost their jobs or have to be accompanied to other jobs due to the corona crisis and are eager to get to work;]] [[Whereas in certain sectors, including health and safety, there is a significant shortage of staff;]] [[calls on the government to provide a first impact for the budgetary treatment of SZW for as many temporary crisis jobs as necessary, and to consider the necessary budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in certain cases, workers requiring home isolation are not paid for;]] [[Whereas the non-payment of wages in the event of home isolation poses a risk of additional contamination;]] [[invites the Government to discuss with employers not to use leave or waiting days in home isolation and to inform the SZW Budget Chamber about this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Government has announced that museums, theatres, sex clubs, cinemas, amusement parks, zoos, swimming pools and libraries must close for at least two weeks;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with these sectors as soon as possible for additional support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-160]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Van Kent and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-161]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u373	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u374	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Aartsen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u375	Thank you, Mr President. I have one motion, signed by almost the entire Chamber, to strengthen the point of having a quick discussion about new support and to see if this is sufficient. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that new restrictive measures to combat the coronavirus have just been announced in the press conference;]] [[calls on the Government to update, as soon as possible, the current support package on the basis of the latest restrictive measures in consultation with the social partners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Aartsen, Van Weyenberg, Palland, Bruins, Smeulders, Van Brenk, Van Kent, Stoffer, Asscher, Van Haga, Baudet and Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion, but first I would like to make a comment on a motion that we tabled last week at the Corona debate and then stopped. We have tabled this together with Mr Asscher and Mrs Marijnissen, which is about the income of the crisis. I know that we may have a slightly different view of this or that we have a little more ambition in it than the cabinet, but I really think, especially after tonight's press conference, that it is not so crazy to ask the cabinet to discuss a crisis income with social partners once again. As far as I am concerned, what is the outcome of this is still completely open, but we really need to do so. Because if we do not intervene now, many more people will end up in poverty and deep misery. We really need to avoid that. The Prime Minister denied that motion last week. I would like to ask Minister Koolmees once again if he can revise that opinion and I ask him to talk to the social partners about this income from the crisis. Mr. Chairman. Then my other motion, which I'm now filing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the measures which have just been taken are re-introducing the cultural sector;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to raise the support package for the cultural sector, with particular attention to cultural creators working as zzp'er or freelancer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders, Mr Van den Berge, Mr Van Kent and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I signed the motion, which was filed on behalf of about the entire Chamber, to come up with that update. I also welcome the commitment that the letter we receive from the Cabinet on the additional measures that will be taken where necessary will also address what we are going to do on 1 January with measures which will expire or which will otherwise be reduced. I think that is an important commitment. Thank you for that. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that quarantine is one of the main means of suppressing the spread of the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it may be attractive to provide a financial incentive for households to enter quarantine, as recommended by the OMT;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal to financially support those who have been tested positively during quarantine through e.g. catering vouchers or shopping vouchers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Asscher, Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Kent, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u378	I am aware that, in addition to this specific support during quarantine, there are other things going on. That is the question, for example, whether we can do what for employers and self-employed people. What can we do about the tests? But we've already talked about that. This motion is specifically about supporting people to give them a little support in the back to go into quarantine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u379	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u380	Mr President, thank you very much. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite the aid packages available, many companies could hardly overcome the effects of the second wave;]] [[Whereas we must make every effort to prevent bankruptcies and protect Dutch jobs and incomes;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the austerity and tightening up of access to schemes in the third NOW/Tozo/TVL aid package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Jong and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u382	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u383	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that employers in the sectors affected by corona measures are paid up to 80% under the NOW scheme;]] [[Whereas staff from these sectors can be temporarily employed in care to support care staff during the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to fully compensate NOW employers for the labour costs of staff for their active temporary deployment to care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas three quarters of the 1.9 million companies in the Netherlands are sole proprietors;]] [[Whereas self-employed workers are hard hit by the longer-term corona crisis and strengthened restrictive measures;]] [[calls on the government to remove the partner test in the Tozo and not to allow the intended asset test to go ahead,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-167]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u384	I would just like to touch on the point that we are always asking a lot of implementing organisations. I would like to remind everyone that they are doing a great deal of good work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u385	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Yeah, you can. As MPs, too. I'm not going to name names, but there are MPs who are really taking part in the debate today with pain in their bodies. Anyway, that's what I wanted to say. Not you, no, Mr. Van Kent! I've noticed. Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First about the people who make a very big contribution to our society by temporarily stopping their work. That's a great sacrifice we ask of people. It is a great sacrifice that people make and then they get zero on the reeks when they ask for support for their family income. The SP finds this particularly poignant. We have very often tabled a motion to delete the partner test altogether. We'll take a step now and see if we can get out somewhere in the middle. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tozo 3 scheme includes the partner's income;]] [[Whereas this scheme does not apply to selfemployed persons and self-employed persons with a partner with an income up to the level of assistance;]] [[calls on the government to allow the partner test under the Tozo 3 scheme to be reduced to an income of one and a half times average,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Asscher, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u387	Mr. Chairman. The next major step has been taken today: once again, a number of sectors need to close the doors, which means that a lot of workers or their jobs will be lost, if the government is to reduce the aid packages, or if it can be helped with a support package to get through this period. The latter is what the SP has in mind; therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to set the rate of compensation to companies for payment of wages at 90% for the entire duration of the NOW 3 and to include as a condition that people should not be dismissed unless they are accompanied from job to job with the consent of the employee representation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u388	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u389	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. It is extremely difficult to strike a balance between the effectiveness of the rules, efficiency, and the need to be enforceable and prevent abuse. We've been thinking from time to time about how to do better. That's gonna be tough. I've signed a number of motions. I don't have a motion myself. I would like to thank Mr Koolmees for the 'judgement chamber' on my motion. Finally, Mr President. I did react backwards. You know that I have a colleague who has more talent for that than I do, but I had to do it for a while, because I thought that in a slightly too easy way, with some populist bullshit, all the government officials were thrown away for a while if not capable. That always hurts me a little, because I've been a state official for six years. My experience is that there are mainly involved people who work hard, have knowledge of things and sometimes work until deep into the night to support the rulers. They don't deserve this, that's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u391	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u392	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no distinction is made between different types of catering establishments at the closure of the catering industry on 14 October 2020;]] [[Whereas the OMT has advised the Cabinet to examine whether restaurants which do not act as cafes can remain open;]] [[calls on the Government to follow the OMT's advice on this point and to examine whether restaurants can reopen the doors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of SBI codes are excluded from the additional TVL subsidy for catering;]] [[calls on the Government to include event-catering, hotel-restaurants and catering of cultural, sports and leisure establishments in this additional TVL grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-171]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u393	Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions. Thank you for the commitment of Minister Koolmees that he wants to talk to the branches about how best target groups can also work with regular employers. The question is whether he wants to include the 36 million that is now being developed by the Secretary of State with relevant stakeholders. Can the branches with national employers be involved in this consultation? My second question concerns a motion that Mrs Palland is about to table. It calls on the government to examine how economic and social damage can be mitigated. Does the Minister intend to involve the Social and Cultural Planning Office in this regard when it comes to social damage? Then there's another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, at the time of the closure of the sex facilities in the spring, it appeared that many people in prostitution could not avail themselves of the support measures;]] [[Whereas people in prostitution often find themselves in a vulnerable position and therefore deserve particular attention;]] [[Whereas a new closure of sex facilities has been announced;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities, to consider whether the current package of support for this group is sufficient and to provide municipalities with tailor-made solutions if this is not the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that as a result of COOVID-19 many people must undergo preventive quarantine and, in so far as homework is not possible, cannot work;]] [[Whereas quarantine for people in a vulnerable position on the labour market, such as young people and flex workers, can have major consequences;]] [[Whereas for employers, such as small SMEs and in specific sectors, who face workers who have to undergo preventive quarantine, rising default costs may be a problem;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and through municipalities to address distressing situations arising as a result of quarantine measures and to inform the Court of Justice before 1 December 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that on 27 October 2020 the Cabinet announced additional support measures to the support and recovery package for businesses and specific sectors;]] [[noting that in the case of new anti-contact measures and/or the closure of sectors there is a desire to reconsider the aid package;]] [[Whereas it is important for continuity to ensure a balance between supporting our economy and maintaining employment on the one hand and taking a future mortgage on the other;]] [[invites the CPB and advisory parties of the Cabinet, such as DNB, to seek an opinion within two months in which they address an optimal strategy to reduce the economic and social damage of the Corona crisis for the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Asscher and Mr Smeulders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-174]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-175]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u395	Mr. Chairman. I had four motions, but the cabinet has given such good answers that only one is left. However, in a debate with Mr Wiebes it cannot be that we do not have something where it was a bit sanded and we do not agree on it. And then we'll move on. So I have one motion on the coach industry. It's covered by the SBI code with the taxis. I figured it out for a while. Now a taxi costs an average of €80,000, says the industry. Staff costs are 55% to 60%. A coach is a lot more expensive. It costs €275,000 to €600,000. They have personnel costs of about 35%. In the conversation, even your fellow Secretary of State said that a child understands that you have a different share of fixed burdens. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coach industry has been seriously affected by the corona crisis and the corona policy;]] [[noting that, due to relatively high fixed charges and high turnover losses, companies in this sector are unable to cope with the existing aid measures;]] [[Whereas in Germany, among others, there is targeted aid for coach companies;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the coach industry, like the event and cultural sectors, can be targeted and inform the Court of Justice of this within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-176]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u396	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u397	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'll take a look at the rulers to see how much time they need. We're suspending ten minutes, including getting the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u398	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u399	Mr. Chairman. With me is the motion-Aartsen c.s. in piece No. 163 center. It invites me to say that we should consider as soon as possible whether and where possible additions are needed. I'm gonna leave that judge room. In the wake of this, I would nevertheless like to advise against the motions that raise specific expectations. That's the motion in part No. 162, where additional aid is already in place. The same applies to the motion in part No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 164 of which in part No 166 also suggests that the TVL would be out of work. That's not true. So that's what I'm telling you. With regard to the motion in part No. 171 I have dealt extensively with what I am doing; I have explained this. This motion is therefore completely superfluous and I should therefore like to advise against it, because I do not want to raise expectations until the work is finished, similar to what I have just said. The motion in part No. 172, as I have explained, is not possible for all kinds of reasons. That would get stuck in the execution. The motion in part No. 175 seems extremely sensible to me. That is a good appeal and I therefore leave judgment to Chamber. The motion in part No. 176 by Mr Stoffer, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. How can this sector be supported in a targeted way? No, this raises expectations. I am going to discourage this motion, but I admit to him that I am taking the issue with numbers and all along into the letter we are going to send and that I am going to give you text and explanation. Then Mr Stoffer can see exactly what and why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u400	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 175. I thank the Minister for the judgment. My question was whether the SCP could also be involved in the parties to be consulted, especially for social damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u401	Yes, in relation to social damage, that seems to me to be a logical extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u402	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u403	In addition to what Mr Wiebes just said, we consult Mr Putters very often. It does indeed monitor the social damage and is involved in the packages as an adviser to the cabinet. There have been two more questions left. The first is from Mr Bruins. Are inter-branch organisations involved in the use of the 36 million? Yeah, they're definitely getting involved. The second question was raised by Mr Smeulders and concerned last week's motion on a crisis income. The Prime Minister dissuaded them last week. That was after consulting me. Because we have a social safety net in the Netherlands and we keep our finger on the pulse when it comes to people falling between shore and ship. We talk about this regularly with the social partners, and the unions have raised this issue on a number of occasions. The second question is: what are we talking about? And how are you supposed to shape that? So we do it in practice, but I continue to discourage the motion in the context of expectations management. The motion in part No. Mr Asscher and Mrs Palland asked the government to come forward with the first development of the corona or crisis jobs before the budgetary procedure. That's a motion I'm giving you, Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Asscher, Mr Van Kent and Mr Smeulders asked the government to discuss with employers not to charge leave or waiting days. I'd like to do that, so I'd like to give the motion judgment Chamber, but with expectations management. It is not for nothing that collective agreements sometimes include waiting days, because sometimes there are good reasons for this. But also central employers' organisations cannot always commit to this on behalf of all employers in the Netherlands. But I do think it fits the broader commitment to your Chamber about quarantine, namely: what can you do to keep sick workers at home and to relieve employers? Against that background, I judge Chamber, but I do want to create expectations management, namely that I cannot commit to this for all employers in the Netherlands. Then we're at the Van Weyenberg c.s. motion. in piece No. 165. That is also a motion within the framework of the quarantine package. This motion is about vouchers. I would like to give the motion for a resolution to the Chamber, provided that it is really part of the further development, which I have already said in the first term that I do not know if I can make it happen. It is very complicated in the implementation and our implementation organisations are already heavily burdened, as are the GGDs. I think it is important that it is also part of a broader package and that it is also linked to a positive test result. But with this comment, I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 167 by Mrs Van Brenk, the government is invited to fully compensate NOW employers for the labour costs of staff who are temporarily active in the care sector. I'm gonna have to advise against that motion. The reason for this has already been interrupted during this debate: I understand the idea, but it is probably very complicated in its implementation. The question of how to match employers and whether there are obstacles to this in the NOW is something I can take with me in the implementation, but I probably can't live up to that in this way, so I advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 168 by Mrs Van Brenk, the government is called upon to delete the partner test in the Tozo. That's the sixth time, I think. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 169 by Mr Van Kent, Mr Asscher, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van Haga, on the adjustment of the concept of income in the partner test. It says, "Put that on one and a half modes." I have just pointed out to Mr Van Weyenberg that we have already looked into this and checked it out, but it is not feasible. Against that background, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u404	I just saw in the government a list of companies and sectors that are being shut down. I saw some markets in there too. That is important because there are a lot of, almost just,zzp'ers working there, but that did not come up in the press conference. Can the Minister confirm that all markets in the Netherlands must be closed? Is there also a reason for this Minister to look at the partner test? After all, the group that is going to be affected, which must make a sacrifice for all of us, is getting much bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u405	I'm not gonna risk saying something that doesn't make sense. I'm not so deep in the precise demarcation of what is and what isn't. Tomorrow there will be a debate with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health on the precise measures announced. So I'm not going into that right now. You can put that question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u406	It's just here on national government.nl. I can send you the link. It says, "Markets." It says: games halls, markets...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u407	In the point of order debate that started after dinner, I said it: I am not going to go into the press conference; there will be a debate on this tomorrow. As a troika, we come later with a response to what has now been done with additional measures. I'm gonna leave it at that. There will be a debate tomorrow on the measures announced this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u408	The government has long been aware of these arrangements. That's what's been discussed. The Minister of Economic Affairs is here. I assume that one of the three W's here knows whether or not the markets are going to be closed as a measure of this government. It's on national government.nl. If it's not true, I'd like to hear it. Then we'll have to get it out of there fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u409	For me, the point isn't right now whether the markets are...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u410	Because this is far-reaching for a lot ofzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u411	I'm not going into it. It's not about whether the markets... Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u412	Tomorrow's the debate on corona. Maybe that's where it comes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u413	We now have a debate on the position of employees. They're allzzp'ers on those markets. The government's website says it's being shut down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u414	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u415	And there are three ministers here who don't know if they are. What amateurism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u416	We're gonna have to take some things apart. The essence of Mr Van Kent's question is about Tozo andzzp'ers. I understand that question. We have a support package for that. We have already said that we will see later this month if we need a review. I've said that three times, four times. I have also said a few times: this evening's press conference will be a debate with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health tomorrow. I do not want any confusion now about a different interpretation of the words or the demarcation. That's why I'm not going into that. That's not to be faint or to take it off like that, but to avoid confusion. That's why I'm not going into that. So I'm not going to respond to that. Mr. Van Kent has heard that three times and... well, okay. The motion in part No. 170 by Mr Van Kent on the payment of wages, I advise against. The motion in part No. 173 of Mr Bruins and Mrs Van der Graaf call on the government to examine with municipalities whether the current package of support for this group is sufficient and to come up with tailor-made solutions for municipalities. Especially those custom solutions are very complicated. I've been in touch with the Secretary of State for a moment, and I have to discourage this motion, because we can't live up to that. The motion in part No. 174 of Mrs Palland and Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Asscher and Mr Smeulders asked the government to consider whether the quarantine measures could be met through municipalities. This motion will be judged by Chamber. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u417	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u418	9:00 sharp, almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u419	Yes. Then I would like to thank you, not just you, but also the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-tweedekamer-24.u420	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Members of Parliament. I would particularly like to thank the messengers for cleaning up, the clerks and everyone who has followed this debate.
