ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. The interruptions consist of ten questions, distributed throughout the debate, both for questions to each other and to the cabinet. So a total of ten questions; you are free to use them or not. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I understand the relaxation and the stages that have been envisaged. I also support that, but I would add that it could have been more careful. We could have waited even longer, so that the chances of the outbreak getting too big and you still have to postpone or even reverse things that we hope for now, because of dates you can't get. But the downside is that because of the longer waits, entrepreneurs are still struggling and even more are falling over. In any case, I would like to congratulate our entrepreneurs on their creativity, on how they come up with one-and-a-half meter measures and make protocols. However, the question remains as to what exactly the government is doing with these protocols. Is it just for the companies themselves? Is it being watched? Is there some kind of approval? And do they also play a role in deciding which sectors can be opened up at what time? Mr. Chairman. This also plays a role in sport. It is good that the cabinet distinguishes between the various sports, but I would like to ask the sports minister to zoom in further. One gym isn't the other. Here too there are many differences and possibilities with space per person, working by appointment and thorough cleaning. There are also indoor sports in many different forms. It's a little weird that you can gym with a school class in the gym, but you can't gym a few hours later with a lot less people or, by appointment, on the climbing wall. I understand that that one and a half meters, if you move a lot and sweat and the air conditioner blows everything around, is not enough, but I ask the Cabinet to look at the specific solutions and the risks involved and not to leave it with this generic, categoric assessment at a higher risk. Mr. Chairman. I am concerned not only with the pleasure of sport, but also with the health effects. People are moving less now, and that's not so good. I read that people now have on average two to three coronakilos. It would be nice if they could be "sported off" again. I'm asking for a friend! Mr. Chairman. There will be room for the catering industry, for business with terraces and beach tents. That's now on June 1st. That's a nice round date, but it's Whit Monday. That is not a very practical date. If by then it is justified to open up, can it be a few days earlier, just before the weekend? I would also like to call for local space to be provided to entrepreneurs, extra meters available for the terrace, so that they can turn more turnover, entrepreneurs can use their parking lot or lawn temporarily as extra terrace space or perhaps even squares or streets for that purpose. Can the cabinet call on the municipalities to cooperate? I see that many municipalities are considering that, but a little support in the back that would be good would be welcome. But then too, we must be realistic. Even then, many companies are still in heavy weather. Open with restrictions is better than closed, but it is often not profitable. Hopefully, the second support package will have to be less broad, but it will have to be more focused. The terrace also does not open if the business is bankrupt or if you then lose. It can't be a round of drinks all day long. For the catering industry, the gap in the first aid package still needs to be closed. Can the cabinet tell us what's going on with that? The sounds I heard about this after the consultations have not yet been fully satisfactory. And there is also a hurry, because Pentecost doesn't open much if the matter has already gone on the bottle in mid-May. One final point, Mr President. The Prime Minister spoke yesterday about the control that restaurants and hairdressers have to do with their customers. They should have them booked, too. Then they can keep an eye on the maximum number of people in the case and at the same time ask if there are complaints, and then they can say that someone is not allowed to come. But is it the intention that a telephone number or e-mail should be recorded at the time of reservation and that these lists should be kept for a few weeks? If someone after visiting a restaurant turns out to be infected and get sick the next day, the GGD can call that restaurant and ask to tell who else was there and inform those people. I think it would be wise to do that. But then those entrepreneurs would have to hold onto the lists for a while and not throw them away every day when the bar is closed. Can you do that, and is that the point? Finally, Mr President. There's a lot of perspective, but no guarantee. If we all stick to the rules, we may have more freedom on the dates we hoped for. If we don't stick to it, we can do it later. We must be careful of the space that is now available. So hold on and keep your distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	I hear Mr Dijkhoff talking about Pentecost weekend. That's exactly what I was thinking about. He talks about the fact that it is not necessarily practical to sit on that Pentecostal Monday at the restaurants and terraces. But it's also potentially less safe. If that whole Whitsuntide weekend is a sunny weekend and if anyone who craves to go to a terrace on Monday sits down, it could potentially be safer to spread it over the Whitsuntide weekend. Is that what Mr Dijkhoff is asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	Yeah, I think so. After that Monday we go back to work and then it takes a few days before you can go on the terrace. Of course, the whole health or virus situation may not allow Pentecost weekend to open and it must be later than 1 June. Of course, that could be the case. Well, that would be a shame, but if that turns out to be the case, you should. But it would be a bit harsh if you said that Thursday: "Well, the numbers look good; we can open this weekend and we start Monday."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr Dijkhoff spoke about the support needed for the catering industry. The capacity is so much less, we'll have to do some extras. I understand that, and that's what I'm here for. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that this should also apply to the cultural sector? Because it can also be partially opened again, but also there the capacity is much less. So they can also earn less. There will also need to be support, otherwise all kinds of institutions will fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	For me, stages and theatres are included.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	I am pleased with the colleague of the VVD that the terraces are opening. We both made a point of that last time. But I don't really understand why you can't do that right now. It's outside. There are the conditions of separate tables and 1.5 meters. I can see why people are waiting for schools and other things. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar waarom zou je?]] Look, in three weeks' time, a lot of catering entrepreneurs are gonna be on the bottle more or closer to getting on the bottle. What would be against letting those terraces, which are always outside, be open from tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	That's a risk weighting. If it goes on like this, there'll be more people infected right now than three weeks from now. Then it is more likely that someone, despite having to stay at home with cough, will sit on the terrace just a day before. So I think that in the risk weighting we are already quite... I think it could have been even more careful. It could open sooner, but I think this is a good balance. Let me put it this way: you can't guarantee it. If we're three weeks ahead and the ic-capacity is even further down, you can catch a higher peak. So you know what the measures we are already doing. We are going to do a lot more every Monday, not only what was announced yesterday, but also with schools and childcare. There is a lot more opening on Monday than is currently the case. I think it's good to do that in stages and steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	We have talked very often here in the Chamber over the last few weeks about the lack of sufficient protective materials for our caregivers. Lately, we've been hearing good news about that. There would be plenty of materials. In fact, last week's briefing said: we can order a lot more, but we do not, because that is not necessary. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree that by now there would be sufficient resources, the directive should be adapted in such a way that any health care provider could work with protective materials? This could also have a good preventive function.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	As far as the directives were based on scarcity, I agree. I'll cross-reference it with the mouth caps. I've got that myself. Science isn't out of everything and at some point you can't say that we advise scientifically to wear it. I can very well imagine that people find it a more pleasant idea, because no matter how small the contribution, the risk is reduced further. When I go to the hairdresser, which is high time, I like it when the hairdresser wears a mouth cap. I don't think it's crazy for him to give me one at a distance. Or I'd put the mask on myself if he said, "There it is." That's different from asking experts to change their scientific insights because there's so much available. I can't ask you to do that. So I think the advice should be based on what has scientific added value and what doesn't, and as long as there is scarcity, you have to add a divisional issue. If there is no shortage, the scientific advice must remain that way. If the availability is large, you can choose to use things yourself. I don't know if we're at the point of being so spacious in the protective jacket.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	Of course, we know Mr Dijkhoff as someone who loves the catering industry. Now there are a lot of catering entrepreneurs who say the following. If I have to run at 30-40% capacity, my fixed costs will go on, but my margin is actually in that last 20%. So I end up in some sort of oxygen-free area, which is that I can open, but can't actually open. I can't run this business at all. What does Mr Dijkhoff say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	That is precisely why I ask you to look specifically at this in the second aid package. It's even more complex. We received messages from the beautiful Langweer, a water sports area. It is not possible to say that it will be difficult in the coming months, but it may be possible to open up again in November. That's when the season's over. They live there from the summer months. So you really need to look specifically at the second aid package, and at the circumstances of companies and what this means to them. Otherwise it's the choice: you're not gonna make it. If the terrace can open again with 1.5 meters away, then that's a limited part of what you had. I hope you can add that up with an extension. Even then you will have a gap between being open again and being profitable. I believe that the second support package should provide for this. Others can also play a role in this. I see in Breda the appointment of a third-a third-a third, between the landlord, the brewer and the entrepreneur. It's about the rent, and it helps. If the cabinet can achieve points in this respect, I agree with that. In the end, the second support package needs to clarify that, so that if you can open up again on 1 June, or hopefully a few days earlier, you know you can open up. It's not just about being allowed, it's about having a business. Opening up to lose, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	Madam President. We all saw Prime Minister Rutte and Minister De Jonge's press conference yesterday. I'm sorry, but I had some other expectations of that. I had hoped that the Prime Minister would also take a moment to reflect on the grief of all those relatives, all those people who mourn their loved ones, who have died of corona in the last few weeks. I also expected our Prime Minister to express his shame to all those 13,884 care heroes who got infected with corona, because they often didn't have protective equipment, and the nine who died in the heat of the battle. I expected him to apologize for the false start on that plane that left for China three months ago, with our stock of mouth caps and other protective equipment on board. Our wholesalers were squeezed like tubes of toothpaste, according to an eyewitness. I also thought he would feel guilty that due to the lack of protective equipment Corona could strike so ruthlessly in almost half of the nursing homes. And I expected him to tell me that he was awake from the fact that for three months the government has been protecting district nurses and caregivers only when a resident had corona, and that the domestic help didn't get anything. He should have guaranteed yesterday on television that playing with lives is now really over and that they can get all the resources they need without restrictions. Then Minister De Jonge. Where were his excuses for still not getting the test policy in order, so we still don't have Corona in the picture? Where's his sorry for the wasted time with that failed app? And why not apologize that there are still no thousands of paid volunteers to help the GGDs with the telephone source and contact research? Mr. Chairman. You didn't see any of this at the press conference yesterday. No self-reflection, no compassion, no regrets, no excuses, nothing at all. Don't get me wrong: it's a good thing that after such a long time perspective is offered, finally, to regain our freedom. That's good for our economy, too. It is good news that people without health problems will not have to stay home from next Monday, and also that the catering industry will get air and terraces but also campsites will be able to open again soon. The contact professions, such as the hairdresser, can start working again from Monday, but it is incomprehensible and also unacceptable that mouth caps are not required there. Of course, that should happen. Hairdressers aren't guinea pigs. Mr. Chairman. I also do not understand why non-medical mouth caps are no longer recommended by the cabinet, that it is not recommended that people can use them more voluntarily in shops, now that research shows that two out of three Dutch people are unable to keep 1.5 meters away from other people in shopping. Mr. Chairman. There's still a lot of work to be done. I would like to say to Prime Minister Rutte: finally get your affairs in order. Run a massive test as fast as you can. Juli's way too late again. Use those thousands of volunteers to help with that source and contact research and bet on the use of mouth caps, wide. It is of the utmost importance that we effectively contain and eradicate the virus. Madam President. We don't need plans, we need results. We don't need words. We need deeds. If words remain, as has been the case so far, then Rutte's roadmap will prove to be the shortest route to a new lockdown. And nobody wants that at all, because the Netherlands craves more freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last night after the press conference, it was said on teletext that there was 'changing reactions to relaxation'. That makes perfect sense. You can immediately see that the concerns are very diverse. Is it too fast? Is it too slow? The essence, I think, is that everyone, including us, finds it very exciting. If you're thinking about preventing a second peak, you can't be too careful. But when you think of all those elderly people in nursing homes who are cut off and can't be in touch with their loved ones, you think: this is human insufferable. Mkb'ers who fear bankruptcy, but also employees who are afraid that they will not be able to shape 1.5 metres in their workplace. Or sick people waiting for delayed regular care. And no one can claim to have the ultimate and final answer to all these often opposing dilemmas. The heavy responsibility for giving the answer that needs to be given lies with the cabinet. I think it is a good thing that the call for perspective as expressed in society, but also here in the Chamber, has been made. I also think it is a good thing that the cabinet has provided that perspective and set out the steps for the coming period. I think we all realise that this space has been created thanks to all those people who have been responsible and cautious over the past few weeks and months. Only, there is also the realization that this persistence is now at least as important and is going to take much longer. In addition to persevering, it is of enormous importance, if you want to be able to do this, to intervene quickly and effectively when there is an outbreak somewhere. This has been a key point of the previous debate: sufficient testing, traceability and contact and source research. Can the Minister explain in this debate how this will happen in practice if there is an outbreak? Can the Minister explain that even if there is such an outbreak in a densely populated area, in a large area with a lot of travel movements, the capacity and commitment there are to prevent an outbreak and to get there quickly? Can the cabinet indicate that the technical briefing was already partly about this morning on the basis of which it will be decided in the coming weeks and months whether a relaxation can be accelerated? And can the cabinet indicate on what basis it is decided whether it should be postponed or, in the worst case, reversed? I also read in the letter that from 11 May there will be pilots visiting nursing homes. Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij have asked all kinds of questions about this. It's a good thing those pilots are getting there now. Can the Minister explain what this is going to look like and how it will build up towards 25 May, when the visit could really take place again? Then there is a question about the catering industry, as Mr Dijkhoff has already mentioned. The date June 1 is Pentecostal Monday. If the terraces open and you have a nice Whitsun weekend, you have the risk that everyone who craves them will sit on that terrace on that day. It will indeed be later if it is not possible, but if it is possible, is it not safer to choose the whole Pentecost weekend? The chances of people spreading are greater. Then there's less risk of spreading, and that's safer. I also have a question about the contrast between indoor pools and gyms. Indoor pools open from May 11th and gyms from September 1st. I would like to have a little more explanation of the difference here. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a reference to the debate two weeks ago. In the last debate, I was talking about more accidents occurring during the descent of a mountain climb than during the climb. There are a lot of reasons for that. You're tired. You feel like when you're at the top, the toughest job is done. Often you're in a hurry to get back home, to normal. But just now we have to stick with each other in order to bring that descent to a successful conclusion. Stay alert. Hang in there. Be brave. Together we stand strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. We're slowly getting our freedoms back. We can slowly start thinking again in what we can. That's good news for a lot of people. All support for this new direction of the cabinet. A month ago, I asked the Cabinet for a roadmap out of the lockdown. It is good that this road map is here now. Many people in the Netherlands needed this perspective. However, there are also disappointments, for example at gyms, fitness clubs and dance schools, which have to keep their doors closed until 1 September. I call on the Minister to look at customization. After all, one gym is not the other. Mr. Chairman. The new freedoms do not mean letting go of the principle of protection and prevention. Many tests and new infections isolate as soon as possible remains important. The Minister told me earlier that he would come up with an assessment of the necessary test capacity, and I now read that back in his letter, for which I thank him. He's talking about 30,000 tests, so from June 1st anyone could be tested with complaints. That's a good ambition, but what if the demand for tests turns out to be higher? If we can still scale up, I'll ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, the Minister said that an app would be crucial in releasing the lockdown. Its initial speed has made way for the desired restraint. A sensible attitude. All the more so, I was surprised at the last paragraph of the letter, on page 21. There the Minister writes about making anonymous data available from telecom providers, but the telecom providers knew nothing and the Dutch Data Protection Authority indicates that this is in breach of the law. How is this possible, especially after the app thing? The Minister seems to be bumping into the same stone a second time. He flies with a digital solution that raises a lot of questions. I would therefore like to know the precise details of this proposal from him. Because the letter we have just received as a Chamber does not make it clear how useful and necessary it is to collect these telecom data on a massive scale. Mr. Chairman. Many corona patients and their families have experienced or are still in the middle of a violent period. That can leave deep scars, physical, mental and also social. In Brabant, where the Q-fever epidemic devastated, they also know all about it. That is why Mr Marijnissen and I work together here. Many Q-fever patients did not receive proper aftercare at the time and we cannot make that mistake again. That's why we need to look now at what's needed for post-care for corona patients and argue D66 and the SP for a corona-expertise center. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Many companies are now standing through the collapsed market with their backs against the wall. The government is right to jump in and pay the salary of 2 million people. The cabinet has made every effort to prevent thousands of people from losing their jobs as a result of bankruptcies. And yet there are sectors in difficulty, such as culture, events and catering, which will need additional support in the very short term. My group therefore, like Mr Dijkhoff, wants to see how this support package can be adapted. D66 is also looking forward to the requested solutions for flex workers and students. Finally, Mr President. Care must continue to be taken, including with the new Roadmap. But let us also continue to think in the coming weeks about more breathing space for society, focusing on relaxing where it can be safely and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you. Mr. Heerma? No? Then Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u20	The initiative of the SP and D66 is really fantastic, as 50PLUS, but there has also been a letter from the elderly unions, from KBO-Brabant, to use the network of volunteers in particular. I would like to have a reaction from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u21	Last week my colleague Marijnissen and I received positive reactions not only from Mrs Van Brenk, but from many parties to our plea for such a corona centre of expertise. Q-support, the Long Fund, several hospitals and also KBO have reported to us and said that there are a lot of networks available that would like to help provide good support and aftercare for corona patients, both in terms of health and social and financial-economic. It would be very good if we could set up a centre of expertise which is mainly coordinating and which includes all the existing networks and knowledge institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u22	My question is also about the very good initiative of Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Jetten. You can see that general practitioners in Brabant are concerned about the fact that corona seems to be very common in precisely the areas where the Q fever has struck. Does Mr Jetten not agree that there should be specific consideration of whether there is a relationship between having Q fever and having extra susceptibility to and higher risks when getting corona? Shouldn't that be investigated, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u23	I very much agree with Mr Heerma. Herps, near Oss, for example, used to be the fireplace of Q fever. Now you can see that a lot of people who had Q fever there now also had corona. When you see that, you get the feeling that something really isn't right there. It would be very wise to investigate that further. I was also pleased last week with Minister Schouten's announcement that she would ask RIVM to investigate the relationship between corona, other lung infections and, of course, the poor air quality in parts of Brabant. I think that these studies can very much help to take sensible action in the years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr President, thank you. A risk-free society never existed, and certainly in times of corona it does not exist. Every step we take now away from the lockdown brings risks. I think we need to understand that very well. I think we're all happy that we can take steps forward, but it's not without risks. My group is therefore very concerned about the degree of contamination. We know that there will be additional infections if we open up the economy again. That's almost a given. That's okay; that's part of it and we know it. But the question is whether the buffer we have now is large enough to ensure that we do not have to close it again in the very short term. That is why my first question to the cabinet is: why not wait one or two weeks before the first steps are taken? I would have liked them to have entered two weeks ago, but still: is the buffer we now have big enough? And we know that if we open up the economy again, the source and contact research is crucial. And I keep questioning that. The fact that we're getting different signals from the Ministry from the GGD is worrying. The Minister says that capacity has already grown by 300%. I want absolute numbers: how much is it now, how much is it in a week, how much is it in two weeks, and how much do we need in the middle of June? And isn't it time to eliminate the regional differences that exist between GGDs, and to set up national direction here? Perhaps this is also a good time to call someone we do not see very often, but who, in my opinion, has done a very good job, Feike Sijbesma. He fought it for each other, because one person was responsible for this, that there is sufficient test capacity. Shouldn't we have someone responsible for tracking and tracking people? Shouldn't one person be responsible for that and shouldn't that be centrally regulated? In order to fully support the further opening up of the economy, it is important for my group to know on the basis of which indicators we are sending. What are we looking at? At what point do we say we're gonna intervene? At what point do we say we can open things up faster? But above all: when should we stop or take a step back? That is not clear to my group at the moment. I would also like to inform the cabinet that my group appreciates the fact that there is a track record and we will fully support it, but it is not automatic that these deadlines are met. That must be a decision on its own every time. Mr. Chairman. We've been in this lockdown for about eight weeks now, and it's high time to look further ahead, into the future. The economic crisis before us will be many, many times greater than the last economic crisis we have had. I am very concerned about the unemployment that awaits us, about youth unemployment. But I'm also thinking of all the possibilities it offers us. We must now draw up a plan to ensure that, in the labour market that is emerging, there is a direct path to the public sector for all those who are looking for work in the near future, to fill the gaps in health care and education. In this way, we can ensure that people stay at work or come to work, and we can fill the gaps there. I already hear noises from people, and from politicians, who say: sustainability, yes wait a minute, these are all kinds of wish lists and hobbies; we should not do that now, because we must first restore the economy and then become more sustainable. I say no, it is precisely now that we need to continue with this sustainability, because we know that it is necessary to achieve the climate objectives, but above all because it is extra good for economic recovery. And third: who pays the bill? The previous crisis has been paid by citizens, by all those people who work in healthcare. That can't happen again. So if we're going to put billions into the economy now, which I agree with, we're going to have to make the deal right away who's going to pay the bill. For my group, it is quite clear. That account must be paid by those large companies that have barely contributed to solidarity in recent years, because they have avoided the tax wherever they could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After yesterday's press conference, the main question remains for us: what exactly is the government's strategy and what is it based on? Of course, I think all of the Netherlands breathes relievedly. We can instantly sit on a terrace again with nice weather, entrepreneurs can finally start up a bit and we can all go to the hairdresser again. Indeed, the coronacoupe Mr. Dijkhoff talked about this one better than the other. That's right. But that's for now. Our question is: what will that be like in a few weeks or a few months or next year? Is it true that the government is clearly not going to go along with the strategy of maintaining these strict measures, but to push back that virus so that we can really eliminate it by testing, detecting and isolating it? Wouldn't that perhaps be a better strategy, a strategy of short-term pain, a strategy that still lasts for a while, rather than a strategy that could lead to the strategy of long-term pain, namely that we still have to operate in half a society and half an economy in the coming months or perhaps in the coming year? My question to the cabinet is whether it has looked at both scenarios, both routes, on the basis of the impact on both society and the economy. If so, can they share the results with us? I would also like to comment on the conditions previously laid down by the OMT for the relaxation of the measures. These are all kinds of things, but at least two things are very clear, namely that the test capacity should be in order and that the large-scale source and contact research done by the GGD should be in order. There has been a lot of talk here about the tests. We also hear very often that this capacity is growing enormously now, but it seems that the actual number of tests is still lagging behind. We have also heard that as of 1 June or in June that is not quite clear to me yet all Dutch can be tested with complaints. That means that that is not the situation at the moment, but we are already going to relax the measures. Doesn't the Cabinet take any chances with that? Can it go into that? The other point is the large-scale source and contact research of the GGD. This has also been the subject of a lot of discussion here. Last week in the technical briefing, we were able to ask the GGD about the man. What's the situation? You guys ready? At that time the somewhat disappointing answer was that they were mainly still scaling up, but how much did not become quite clear. I am therefore happy to support the question of whether we can get the absolute figures. How much is now being expanded into capacity and how much is needed? At the time, the disappointing answer was that a lot of plans were still being made. That's what we heard yesterday. In particular, plans are being made to increase capacity. Still, we're gonna relax now. So there again my question: do we take no chances there? Can the cabinet go into that? Mr. Chairman. One thing that is not yet in order is the protective materials for our caregivers. We have heard for weeks here and in the media that there would be a huge shortage, scarcity. In the meantime we hear that there is enough. Last week it was even said in the briefing: we can order up to five times more things, but we do not, because it is not necessary, because there is enough. If that is the case, I wonder how it is possible that, even today, caregivers still have to do their work unprotected in the Netherlands. Should we not now amend the directive and simply say quite clearly: do you work in healthcare and do you want protective materials, then you can and then you can? Finally, Mr President. Mr Jetten has already referred to it: together with D66 we are today proposing the creation of a centre of knowledge around corona. We think it's very wise to learn from the lessons we've learned from the Q-fever outbreak in Brabant. It really took too long before people got the help and support they needed. We therefore think: let us learn from that now and therefore start to set up a knowledge centre for corona patients. In this way, they can still have sufficient guidance and support in the further impact it will have in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u29	Mr. Chairman. It is joy for one, but fear of contamination for the other, as the economy slowly opens up again. There's no other way. Not for nothing is what we're going through in the world compared to a great experiment. No one knows exactly how to deal with such a pandemic and therefore not how to go down the mountain, to quote Heerma. But just because it's a big experiment doesn't mean we have to experiment with everything. On this point, I do not think that the government's approach, especially as far as implementation is concerned, is satisfactory. Every time, things were promised that turned out to be different, such as personal protective equipment and the app. The word "app" has now disappeared from the cabinet's idiom, but a few weeks ago we heard "app" a hundred times. But the app's gone. Three: testing. Was that the capacity or the supplies? And four: the contact investigation. Why is that important? Well, because everything's focused on knowing what's going on. The OMT said it this morning: we really did not advise on everything after 11 May, but until 11 May. And from then on only if there is sufficient capacity, when we see what happens and when the GGD detects what it's like with an infection, so you can contain it. Last time we asked how many people are being investigated? The minister said: well, that just happens; I have ordered to scale up. Today, in reply to written questions, he says that this has always happened in those 25 regions. But the letter says: we stopped doing the source research because the pandemic was too intense. That is an example of promising beautiful things on the one hand, while on the other hand, the question is: what is going to happen to the fear of teachers, care workers and the staff of the daycare centers, whether we will be there in time if someone gets sick? So this has to be better. Those numbers have already been promised to us and would be put on paper. What is it? A protocol. Very good. But between protocol and deed, laws stand in the way, as well as practical objections and melancholy, which comes in the evening and is difficult to explain. In this case, we do have a protocol, but it should be here by now. How many people have been hired? How many volunteers are involved? How much are we gonna get? How does the cabinet deal with the people who are tested positively today, May 7th? We know 10% of people are tested positive. Is that source and contact research being done on them? Only when that is in order will we still sail on sight, but then at least we know what we see. In this context, I also believe that the cabinet should demonstrate on the basis of which it takes the decisions. What kind of advice are there? What is the trade-off framework? We know this isn't the virus anymore. It's economics and it's society. They're getting advice. They must be shared with the people's representatives and the people. We had a motion on that. The vote stopped last time: 75/75. So I call on the Chamber, and in this case the coalition, to give up the resistance against it. We are entering the stage where politics must be able to do its job and see on what basis the decisions are taken. Mr. Chairman. I missed the perspective for the more vulnerable. Thanks to the experiment, the residents of the nursing homes can now hope for a visitation scheme, but what about the daily use for the disabled and what about the people in the ggz? I would like to ask the Cabinet to make a plan here, too, on which and under which conditions these people can get more quality of life despite the threat of corona. I understand the dilemmas involved. Finally. There will be a second economic aid package. The Labour Party has already indicated what is important. That is a just division, so a just laying down of the account with the people who can suffer it, but also making it clear what else needs to be done. The vulnerability of a lot of people in the economic sense has been demonstrated. The people in the culture, the people in the hospitality, the people in the tourism industry exactly there are flexible contracts and zzp'ers on the order of the day............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u31	Madam President. This is a phase of hope and fear. I understand very well how much that responsibility weighs on the shoulders of cabinet members, of these ministers. A special word of thanks also to the Minister for Medical Care, who has been pushed forward. Thank you, too, for taking responsibility. But my first question is a big one, which is in line with Mr Marijnissen's question: what exactly is your strategy? Can you put that down again in all clarity and clarity, cabinet? Is that just letting the virus smolder, or are we gonna bet on maximum containment? The cabinet comes up with a booklet of enlargements, and that is encouraging. That is the hope of "hope and fear." But I'm not without that fear myself. It is good to see that the cabinet is taking a broader view, following a broad-based motion, tabled by me, but can the Prime Minister say again how different opinions have already been taken into account? Then more specific my fear. On 6 April, the OMT set out a number of conditions for enlargement and also set out the measures to be taken. If you're gonna stop by that list, there's a lot of questions to ask. Colleagues have just done the same. For example, look at the reproduction number, which should really be below the one. That is the buffer Mr Klaver mentioned. Is it spacious enough? Nor should the care system be over-asked. Is that right? Do we have enough certainty? Is there sufficient test capacity? Is that capacity sufficient at level and on time at level? And then there's the source and contact search. There are also varying signals from the GDD about this. So can the VWS Minister give us a clear picture of how we stand in this respect? The fact that I am asking these questions makes it clear that I am not without fear. I ask the Prime Minister to take us into consideration. And how do our choices relate to those of our neighbouring countries? Then there are a few short questions about protective agents. I also agree with the questions put by Mr Marijnissen. The national consortium says: we can double at least five times the order size. But where is it? Why are we still hearing noises about insufficient protective equipment? As far as our group is concerned, they should also be able to be used preventively, because older people are not always showing signs. How's the VWS minister handling this? Are carers included in this? It's nice to have a visitation scheme for nursing homes. How does it work out? How are nursing homes selected? I would also like to receive a response to the opinion of the Health and Health Council. He says: do customized work; look at the level of institution that such an institution can handle and how it can be designed. Can the Minister respond to that? What does the Cabinet think of that advice? We also want to continue to draw attention to the people who live protected, to ggz and youth care institutions and to disability care. There too, we hear distressing situations. The visitor scheme of "no, unless" has been explained here as "no." And the day's spending is closed. And there's an exit strategy that they don't understand and that often doesn't apply to them. What steps does the cabinet intend to take together with the sector? Then there is a whole other department, the economic department. The current NOW scheme, which compensates for 90% of labour costs, is not suitable for companies with lower wage costs and higher continuous fixed operating costs. These are often family businesses and SMEs in the manufacturing industry. Is the Cabinet prepared to consider how continuous fixed operating costs can be treated in the same way as wage costs from 1 June, so that these capital-intensive companies also have a chance of survival? Madam President, all the way to the end. In this crisis, words have been said about our elders who sometimes hurt me at heart. It was about dry wood, about a 60-minute society that we should have or about age limits in the hospitality industry. Of course, every group asks for customization and we have to look at which group needs what, but I have the impression that solidarity between generations is under pressure. Let me put it in the form of a question: does the Prime Minister agree with me that, now that we are in the same boat together, we are only coming out together? Does he agree with me that if we start society again, we will only do so together with those who have built this society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you. Mr Dijkhoff has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u33	That last point got me thinking. I would love nothing more than for us to be able to do everything together, but I also understand that we are calling on older people to be a little more cautious. The same applies to people with vulnerable health, regardless of age. I understand "solidar" and "together," but that doesn't mean everyone can do the same. I also read calls from people who say: I would understand if my children and grandchildren like more and can do more than I do, because I am more at risk of getting infected than they do. Is that a problem, too? I want to taste where it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u34	The latter is an ethical dilemma that is primarily discussed between doctor and patient. The fact that someone himself says that he understands that his child is ahead of him when there is scarcity and if there is a dilemma, is something quite different than saying at the entrance of the ic: you can go in and not you, because there is an age limit. That would be horrible. This undermines solidarity. Of course, that ethical debate and moral deliberation takes place in a hospital. How long have you been treating someone? If the chance that you don't get off the ic is very high, that conversation takes place and there is also a form of triage, but that is first of all something for the conversation between doctor and patient. But what is now threatening is that older people are portrayed as a kind of block on our feet, which is difficult to reboot. I can't tell you how hard it is for me. Our freedom and prosperity have been thrown into our laps by this generation. Let us now do what is necessary for them and take them fully with them in the start-up of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u35	I fully share that aversion to certain texts, and I will not repeat those terms; I do not give them that honour. But I can imagine that in practice you take care of each other in a certain way, just as you ask people with vulnerable health to have someone else do the shopping. I can imagine that, when we go further, there will be opportunities for certain activities in regions. Now, for example, we let children work out, but we don't do it ourselves. I can imagine that it is not categorically excluded that there are differences in that, without putting people away. I would like to build it up a little more positively. Kids can have something now. We'll give them all that. Then I'm not gonna be jealous either, like, "I can't do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u36	No, but there has been blunt talk, for example, of an age limit in the catering industry. I really think that's a whole different order than asking people with colds to stay home. That is a legitimate criterion to draw a line and say: you just shouldn't go to crowded places and you shouldn't move outside. But the mere fact that you are above a certain age limit and it is said at the entrance that "you cannot go in and people who are younger are" is a false criterion. This is not a criterion that we should apply in a general sense. Custom? Yes. Looking very closely at personal circumstances? Yes. Of course nursing homes are still a special category. We've talked about that a lot, and rightly so. But too many elderly people have felt in the last few days that they are apparently too much and are apparently a nuisance. I'd think that was really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u37	I would also find the latter very wrong, because we hope that they will be with us for a long time, and that is why we are concerned when they carry out certain activities. But I agree with Mr Segers that it is far away before you have to impose it as a government. But having conversations in our families and saying "Dad or Mom, you're vulnerable so do a little less" sounds like a healthy attitude to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u38	Sure. That does indeed seem to me, certainly from a liberal point of view, to be the place where it should be. It is certainly not the responsibility of the government to prescribe what the outcome of that conversation should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u39	Also on this point. I agree with Mr Segers and Mr Dijkhoff that we should not ask for an identity card at the entrance in order to be able to select by age. But we need to look at how to make more and more possible from a positive approach. This is especially true when we see at some point that the R-value is rising in certain places; you may need to step up again. Is Mr Segers prepared to look at this as well: how can we make more possible, step by step, from the positive approach, in the coming months and allow more freedoms to society?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u40	Yes, of course I am prepared to think about that from a positive point of view. Only, if I immediately link that to an age limit or to dealing with ages, then it becomes uncomfortable for me again. Again, I have every sympathy for harsh criteria: colds, physical conditions. Nursing homes: all the understanding that we need to pay special attention to this. But in general I find saying something about older people in the link to starting up society very complicated. So yes, we should also look at the reproduction number. Mr Klaver said it strikingly: is that buffer simply large enough? I'm holding my heart. We have to look very critically at that. We also have the hand very much on the hand brake. If we have to, we have to put it on, but if we can give space, then of course we have to give space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u41	It is right to continue to look at how you protect the risk groups. Every step the cabinet takes must be in the balance. Now, for example, outdoor games and sports have been made possible for young people under 12 years of age. Mr Dijkhoff said the same thing. I hope that we do not have to go back on those kinds of choices because we are no longer allowed to distinguish between age groups at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u42	No, I thought that was an excellent step to defend. That is indeed a positive step. And yet, in the hospitality business, it gets complicated. Let me say it openly: one of the reasons is, of course, a plea from your party in Amsterdam, which played a bit with that thought. That was a trigger for me to say: ooh, I think we are really crossing a line here that we should not cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u43	The plea of my fellow member of the Council in Amsterdam is mainly that the one-and-a-half-metre society is simply not going to fit in with all sectors. Keeping 1.5 meters away can't be in every place in society. And then the call is: dare to think about other ways in which you can contain the spread of the virus as much as possible and still give a little air and freedom to society, but, indeed, without stigmatizing or discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u44	Finally, Madam President. I would like to remind you that one of the leaders of civil society really called for the creation of a 60-minute society. We don't have to go that way. We're in this together and we're just getting out together, and that's also with the older generation. Not only do we owe them a great deal of gratitude; they also have a great deal to contribute, because in many families nanny's and grandma's are also missed. That's why. We miss them. Me too. I look forward to the moment when we can get out of this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u45	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The lockdown further relaxes is what many long for. People want to make plans for the future and want to know when this difficult time will come to an end. But it still wrings, because if you operate gradually and carefully, you make sure you don't pile too many risks together. We have a few questions about this. Has this roadmap been drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the OMT, or was it mainly a political decision and a response to the call from society? Why not wait until we know what opening the schools means for the further spread of the virus? Why not wait for the R to drop further? With the relaxation comes a great risk, namely that the R will go up again. If the figures are going in the wrong direction, I ask how real it is to withdraw the relaxation. People are more likely to break those rules after all. Has the Prime Minister obtained advice from police, boas and behavioral experts on what we do? Then I move to the point of sufficient testing and tracing capacity, an absolute condition for loosening the lockdown. Why has there been so long waiting to scale up the source and contact research at the GGDs? We should have started training hundreds of extra people at the start of the crisis to do contact research. What's going on with that? We also hear that the GGD is no longer due to its regular work. Is there any work on long-term plans at the GGD? In what way does the cabinet that supports GGDs to their maximum, also in order to be able to carry out their regular work again? It is a good thing that the cabinet is keeping an eye on the human side when it comes to the ban on visiting nursing homes. A number of pilots are being carefully started, but will there be such a pilot in disability care? They, too, crave more freedom. My group has previously asked for an emergency plan for the ggz. There is now a directive, but we still hear that many people with complex mental problems are no longer able to get into intake or see their therapist face to face. They're drifting further and further away in that desperation. Does the cabinet currently avail itself of any opportunity to ensure that ggz institutions actually follow these guidelines? Two more points, privacy and the situation in slaughterhouses. The Minister wants to use the data from telecom providers. This seems almost a ritual by now. Every once in a while, this minister drops a bomb. First, 8 million medical records were opened. Then there would be two apps and now the data of telecom providers will be used. There is a far-reaching plan without any explanation as to why, what dates it is about and whether it really is the least radical method. Also in the rectification we just got, it goes wrong. The RIVM still has to explain why it would be necessary at all, but the minister is already going to amend the law. As far as we are concerned, that is really the wrong order. As far as we are concerned, anonymous data cannot be used at the moment and the Dutch Data Protection Authority said a month ago: making this type of data anonymous simply cannot be done. So I'd like a reaction to that. And finally, Mr. Chairman. Slaughterhouses look like fireplaces for the corona virus. In several countries, including the Netherlands, large numbers of infections among employees have been detected. In the U.S., slaughterhouses were closed down, resulting in a tragedy. Overcrowded stables and clearing millions of animals. With the current rate of slaughter in the Dutch slaughterhouses, compliance with the one-and-a-half meter directive is impossible. We urge the Minister to protect the staff by having them tested, by forcing the one and a half meters directive by halving the rate of slaughter and by protecting their animals by introducing immediately necessary breeding restrictions. We are considering a motion on this last point, because this really has to be different now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u47	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I call Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u48	Madam President. Special days of commemoration are behind us, 4 and 5 May in corona time. Sober and subdued, yet intense and penetrating at the same time. Our freedom is precious, a gift of God, but freedom is also fragile and never self-evident. It is important to think about this again and again. It is good that yesterday the Prime Minister presented a roadmap for the coming months and thus provides a perspective in the corona crisis, but I would also like to say on the part of the SGP Group: more clarity is needed on the strategy on which the roadmap is based. Is the cabinet now holding on to the spread of the virus or are we returning to the containment strategy, so really reducing the number of infections as far as possible? We, too, reviewed the OMT opinion of early April, which set out a number of very strict conditions for relaxing the measures. My question, too, is whether they are still standing. Is it really gonna work to test everyone who might have been infected? Are the GGDs ready to do source and contact research with each infection? And are we able to closely monitor the effects of the relaxation and if necessary adjust or step on the brake? Mr. Chairman. For the first time, I heard good news about personal protective equipment from, for example, the home care institutions. Yeah, we're starting to run through the official channels right now. Finally. Oh, thank God. But I also hear that the directives on the use of protective equipment still seem to have been stamped by the existing scarcity. Does the Minister recognise that more preventive use of mouth caps from the sole responsibility of health care institutions can also prevent contamination? How do we prevent mouth caps intended for care being sold to people who are about to use them for public transport? The Roadmap is pointing in the direction. Earlier, I insisted on a broad consideration so that not the one who makes the most noise gets the most space. Fortunately, I also see this broad picture in the roadmap. The SGP also drew attention to the serious restrictions imposed on hundreds of thousands of people who have been unable to attend a divine service for weeks. The cautious enlargements that are now being proposed for a wide range of sectors offer hope and prospects. A few more points. First of all... The approach chosen is very coarse, for example the numbers 30 and 100. When will there be more room for customisation, so that not only the number of people present is taken into account, but also the size of a building? Second. How are the relaxations legally designed? In all future choices, we must always keep an eye on the extent to which fundamental rights are restricted. I would like to see a speedy implementation of the opinion on this by the Council of State, to which I hope the Chamber will decide later today, following a motion I tabled earlier with Mr Jetten. A third point in this context. Be clear about relaxing too! If space is provided and can be justified, then, except in the event of an acute emergency, pressure should not then be exerted again on the basis of the own insights of local authority, for example, so as not to exploit that space. Then we'll have a very confusing situation. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Madam President. The corona measures take some people very hard. I am glad that work is also being done to ease the ban on visiting healthcare centres. I am also thinking of people who live protected, such as young people with disabilities. Questions have also been asked about daily spending. We, too, often receive calls asking the desperate question: how can I ever keep this up? Finally, I come to the issue of loneliness, fear, imminent dismissal or bankruptcy. Sometimes that doesn't make people sit in the cold clothes, that questions about suicide can also come up. Fortunately, there is 113 suicide prevention. Telephone and digital contacts are going to rise sharply to their estimates. Finally, I would like to ask whether the Cabinet is prepared to consider whether the extra money can be made available so that as many people as possible can be helped through this proper provision. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u49	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Chairman. The pressure is off, but the times are still intensely difficult. In difficult times like this, despite being under pressure, it's important to be able to continue to do your job undisturbed, such as the people in hospitals, care for the elderly and education. It also comes down to rating yourself away for the greater interest and adapting your behavior to what is good for another, but perhaps not directly for yourself. That is sometimes difficult; that is sometimes a struggle. Some people find it difficult to figure out, because not everyone can. Fortunately, the vast majority of society in recent times has shown community spirit and complied with the rules. Mr. Chairman. After a time of dropping off... I mean, after a time of perseverance and desperation, society has finally gained perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u51	Very freudian, this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr. President, would you stop the clock for a moment? No, I'm not. The cabinet has decided that the hairdressers will be allowed to open next week, that the catering industry will be allowed to open again in the long term and that the rest of life will return a little bit to normal. I am pleased to be able to express my support for this on behalf of the DENK Group, because it is about time. The Netherlands has been eating at this for two months. It remains important that hospitalisations do not increase, that capacity utilisation does not increase, that people continue to comply with the rules and that we continue to protect the most vulnerable people. The lamp at the end of the tunnel shall not come from the headlamps of an opposite lamp. Then we won't escape an emergency braking procedure. Is the Chamber informed in advance if we do not escape to tighten up the measures, or do we read that two hours before the press conference at the NIS? What does such an emergency braking procedure actually look like? And how are we going to ensure that compliance with the rules does not continue to mess up in the future? We see that the movement in public space is increasing again and that the infection rate is rising again. Permanent commitment and discipline are needed. An important condition for easing is, of course, that the test capacity is in order. We hear different numbers about this test capacity at different times. Can the Minister at last guarantee that everyone will be able to be tested with complaints by 1 June? And what about the staffing capacity of the GGD to have the source and contact research conducted? Then the mouth caps that become mandatory in the O.V. Those mouth caps are being speculated at usury prices. The scarcity is enormous. Is the government willing to collectively provide people with mouth caps? The corona crisis also has many negative health effects. People move less and suffer from loneliness. What is the Cabinet going to do to eliminate the negative health effects? Mr. Chairman. A perspective from the crisis also means that the social wounds that have been struck by the crisis must be healed. The corona crisis exposes an enormous amount of inequality: inequality between people with fixed contracts and people with flexible contracts, inequality between small entrepreneurs and multinationals, but also inequality between young people and the elderly. When will there be plans to combat the inequality caused by the corona crisis, in education, in the labour market and also in poverty? Finally, Mr President. In recent times, many people have been the victims of the diplomatic jousting between the Netherlands and Morocco. People are locked up in Morocco against their will and they want to go back to the Netherlands. I'm getting dozens of reports about that. We are pleased that a number of aircraft are now coming to the Netherlands from Morocco. When can it be made clear to the remaining Dutch people in Morocco, so that they can close their families in the arms here? How is the government going to better inform these people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u53	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, we spoke mainly about the number of infections, hospital care, the possible shortages of ic-beds and about a black scenario and who would be entitled to intensive care treatment and who would not. Today it is mainly about relaxing the measures, about sports, about the beauty specialist, public transport and opening cinemas and terraces. That makes 50PLUS feel uncomfortable. We understand that easing the measures is desirable, but is it not going too fast? Is it wise to announce measures in a few months' time? Are they also feasible? When or at what figures are measures reversed, and in what order? Soothing can only be achieved if the virus remains under control. But what exactly is "under control"? It is now clear that care workers have also died of COOVID-19. These employees, working in the front line, have given their lives. In the United Kingdom, family members of deceased employees receive compensation. Is the cabinet prepared to see if this is possible in the Netherlands, perhaps together with the private initiative already taken? My group is considering tabling a motion on this matter. Can the Minister indicate what actions have been taken on two adopted 50PLUS motions, on maintenance of care staff and on alternatives to daily spending? Carers and volunteers in palliative care at home can be tested on the basis of the new directive from 18 May. Can the Minister explain the procedure? There is a new directive on the use of personal protective equipment for caregivers who provide intensive care. Can the Minister also explain this directive? And how does logistics work: where and when can they have these resources? There are still signs that care workers have to do their jobs unprotected, while there are plenty of protective equipment available in other sectors. Maybe they're of a different quality, but still. Care workers quit their jobs because they can't work safely. Does this have to do with the directives that employers apply, or are there other reasons? I'd like an explanation from this minister. Mr. Chairman. In the previous debate, the Minister reacted somewhat grumpyly to our group's comments on the number of tests available. For weeks he talked about 29,000 tests a day and mid-April the capacity would be 17,500. But the number of tests carried out at the end of April was about 8,000 a day. It's 50PLUS about deploying capacity. Test capacity is nice, but actual testing is better. The recent letter also contains all kinds of terms and conditions: if well divided, if all steps are carried through well, the goal is 1 June, but yes, there are still many dependencies. Can the Minister elaborate on this later? Less grumpy and clip-and-ready; I'm sure the chairman will like that as well. 50PLUS supports the relaxation of visiting arrangements in nursing homes. It is a dilemma: on the one hand you want to protect the residents and on the other hand you give every resident, the partner and the family a warm and human contact. Will a nursing home lock up immediately as soon as there's another infection? Can the Minister comment on the financial situation of nursing homes and the development of staff? And are the rules for visitation and contact in the death stage also changed? Mr President, concluding. Is the cabinet prepared to organise a national moment of mourning in the long run, in which we hang the flags half-stick and observe one minute's silence to show respect for the thousands of dead? The funerals are very sober at the moment; perhaps that's an extra reason to organize this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u55	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Hiddema has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u56	Mr. Chairman. After weeks of standstill, there is finally a glimpse of progress. We have put the outbreak phase behind us, and we are now, in the terms of the cabinet, in a transition to the one and a half-metre society: the new normal. It is quite indigestible that we should consider a one-and-a-half-metre society as normal. A one-and-a-half-meter society is not normal and will never be normal if it comes to Forum. People are simply social beings and social distance does not fit in with that. People become miserable when they have to consider something that goes against human nature to be normal. Why was this new normal chosen? Have other options been considered, for example, much more commitment to the use of mouth caps and much more testing, as successfully applied in various Asian countries? Then it also succeeds to control corona, without one-and-a-half-metre society. Another example could be a so-called "two-stream society." This is a society in which everything opens up again and where healthy people can return to work normally, but where people from the risk group are extra protected, without excluding them. For example, people from the risk group can shop and shop at special times, go out to dinner on special days and go to the cinema or the theater. They also use special sections of public transport. So two streams. It is an interesting alternative to the one-and-a-half-meter society, which undoubtedly also has hooks and eyes, but which is absolutely worth researching. The cabinet seems to have quickly come to the conclusion that a one-and-a-half-metre society is necessary. I would like to hear what other options have been seriously examined and what the results of that study were. Fortunately, there is one thing we all agree on: we must do everything we can to prevent a new outbreak. Testing is crucial. However, at the moment only people who already have symptoms are being tested in the Netherlands, while according to the information provided by the RIVM there are indications that someone without symptoms can also be contagious. Shouldn't random testing be carried out in all parts of the Netherlands in order to detect where the virus appears in time? Is this happening? If we do end up in the next outbreak phase at some point, it is essential that we do not make the same mistakes again, so that we do not need another two months or more in a lockdown. What lessons did the cabinet learn from the mistakes made at the end of January, which allowed it to come to this? Does the cabinet agree that much damage could have been avoided if a lockdown had been chosen much earlier, so that it could have been lifted after a few weeks? I'd like a response. While I'm standing here, what are the prospects of the app? How's that working out for you? How are the tests going? Is the app gonna be there? Is there a visual on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u57	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just over the German border lies Gangelt, more hit by corona than the Dutch side. The German virologist Professor Streeck did research there. The results are interesting. What can we learn from this in the Netherlands, especially if you compare the developments in Gangelt with the nearby Kessel? Approaches and results differ widely. Is the cabinet prepared to have the experts look at this research and learn from it, especially now that it has gone so dramatically wrong in many nursing homes in the Netherlands? Then the masks. The whole world wants them, but in the Netherlands the advice for citizens is still that they are not really needed. Whether that's right, I'll just take a moment in the middle. Yet I look with light jealousy at Taiwan, a country with more inhabitants than the Netherlands, under the smoke of China. There are 440 corona infections, and we have at least 40,000. There is a lot of testing and people wear mouth caps. The number of deaths to be regretted is 6; we have 5,200 confirmed and the actual number is higher. Now there are finally, narrowly, more mouth caps available. What are we gonna do with the barbers? It is said that it is not mandatory, but does this apply to the hairdresser or does this also apply to the visitor? And then public transport. That's where they're required. But who's gonna pay for the costs? Many minima, and certainly many older people, have to do with rising costs. They don't have the money for a hat like that. In other countries they are distributed free of charge. Is there any way we could do that? People who can afford it well will buy themselves a much more fashionable mouth cover. The costs do not seem insurmountable to me to the government and do not outweigh the advantage of getting people out of isolation in this way. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u59	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I call Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr. Chairman. Weeks we are already in a so-called intelligent lockdown, but the question is whether it is intelligent. We have taken rigorous measures because we were unprepared. We had no test material, no mouth caps and insufficient ic-beds. There was no choice at the time. We are now eight weeks away and the economic, social, social and cultural damage can no longer be justified. The cabinet has now decided to ease the lockdown. I'm complimenting you for that, but it's not enough. Why, for example, is it not normalized to the number of square meters? Why isn't there a proper ventilation system? Sports schools and cultural institutions could then simply open up again. The Prime Minister says we have to do it together and we have to hang in there. But we're not doing anything together. Only a few groups are screwed. Of course, these are the people who are sick, their families and friends. They are also the 2 million SMEs andzzp'ers, many of whom will go bankrupt, not because of corona, but because of the measures taken by this cabinet. What about students who have been delayed for years should borrow and be fined by the corona bureaucracy in their own dorm? How is the cabinet going to save entrepreneurs and students? Shouldn't we immediately exempt everyone under 30 from the corona measures? Or should we completely lift the lockdown and ask people over 60 to stay home? Mr. Chairman. We just get our salary and our holiday money in May. Should we not also contribute, for example through a solidarity tax for politicians and for the cabinet? Maybe then we'll feel the pain of society and put the pressure on us to get out of this lockdown as soon as possible. Finally, Mr President. How far can the government go? Can the government determine how many people you have to visit in your own house, or pay a fine when you sit on the couch with your roommates at home? Can the government dictate that your catering company, travel agency or gym go bankrupt? We crossed a dangerous line. I think we should try to return very quickly, not to the new normal, but to a mature, full democratic rule of law, in which the rights of the individual prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u61	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u62	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u63	Mr. Chairman. I was going to answer the questions about the roadmap, the speed or non-speed and alternatives. Then a few questions about the economic package and then a pile of residual questions. Then Hugo de Jonge, the minister of VWS, will answer all the questions that have been asked in his field, in particular those about testing and that sort of thing. Martin van Rijn, the Minister for Medical Care, will do so in his field. So at the end all the questions should have been answered and if not, of course we will be able to address them. Let me give you an introduction to what Pieter Heerma of the CDA said, namely that it is indeed exciting. It is exciting, because we are now at the beginning, or actually were, of that transitional phase. We are now taking a next step in the transition phase after the outbreak phase. We now want to give a little more space, social and economic. So I will also elaborate on the fact that we believe that this is possible. But it is indeed exciting in that sense that you sail on sight and on the one hand do not want to go too slow unnecessarily, which means enormous damage; not only economically but also for the health of people, emotionally and so on, this has enormous consequences. But on the other hand, if you don't properly estimate it, then of course it has effects. So I'll go into how to deal with that. I was here this morning in The Hague at Basalt, a rehabilitation facility. So here come the people who have once been in intensive care. In the meantime, according to the NICE site, this is already about 2,900 people in the Netherlands, a little less. Unfortunately, a lot of them have died too, but fortunately a lot of them have also survived, but in all cases they still need long-term rehabilitation. I spoke to a gentleman there... I can say that, because he was filmed and had no objection to it; I believe that Hart of the Netherlands is broadcasting it or perhaps it is going elsewhere. I think he was in the power of his life, maybe not a marathon runner, but he walked 10 kilometers every day until he was hit by the virus. After that, he had to learn to stand up at all. Then he had to learn to walk again. He walked from the room where I spoke with him to his own room and fell into a wheelchair there. Then his heart rate was measured: 126. Then your sats aren't the way you want them to be, and they're doing a lot better now. So if anyone is looking at this debate who thinks "yes, but I am in the power of my life; I cannot be touched"... Sorry, but you too, you too can be affected and if you are infected and are not affected, you can infect someone who will then suffer far-reaching consequences. Here again I express the enormous respect that we always express for the people in care and cleaning in care, the patient transport, the nurses, the doctors and therefore also the people in rehabilitation. This is another sector where I tried to pay attention to it myself this morning, but also to show the Netherlands how important they are. I did that to say again, boys, watch out. To anyone here who thinks "it can be faster," I also say: watch out. This is an introduction. Actually, I wanted to start with the questions. This was more of an introductory reflection on my visit this morning to this fantastic rehabilitation institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u64	I do not want to interrupt the Minister too quickly, but I would like to come back to the press conference yesterday. I said that in my term, too. I understand that after all these weeks, the Minister wants to put down a good story, a route plan. But what I missed anyway, and a lot of people in the Netherlands too, I notice from the reactions, is that he hasn't had the beginning of any empathy or self-reflection after what has gone wrong lately. You are now saying that you have a great deal of respect for the people in care, but the people in care are not sufficiently protected by the government! The people in nursing care and the district nurses, but also the domestic helpers have often had to do their fantastic work without any protective equipment. And because they didn't have that material, many of them got sick, some of them recorded and unfortunately also died. Once again, I think it goes with the fact that the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, not only during the press conference, but also here, says that the fact that these people are not protected by the government, has been a mistake and that it should be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr Wilders continued. But let me first say something about something on which I fully agree with Mr Wilders, namely that we cannot sufficiently emphasise how terrible it is when people die. He also mentioned this in his contribution. I have chosen not to dwell on the fact that people are dying every time I have the opportunity to explain what we are doing. But I will reflect on Mr Wilders' comment. Maybe we should do that more often after all. But no doubt: for Hugo de Jonge, Martin van Rijn, myself and of course everyone in this Chamber, if you see the death rates again today, you realize what lies behind them. When I was at this rehabilitation facility today and I spoke to a gentleman who was actually already over the border of death and is now rehabilitating there, I realized what that means for his wife, for his child, for the people he would have left behind if he had died. So there's no doubt about that. It is right that Mr Wilders should draw attention to this. Then it's about the protection. The fact is that, in the Netherlands, we have had shortages throughout Europe and, in part, we still have shortages of protective equipment. That's a fact. We are working very hard together, with people in care, in politics and in many areas of society, to overcome these shortages. Mr Wilders already suggested a direct link between a lack of protective equipment and mortality in nursing homes. That's gonna have to prove it. There may be a link. You certainly shouldn't rule that out, but it'll have to prove if it's one-on-one. More generally, I am convinced that if we evaluate this, a lot of mistakes will emerge. A lot of mistakes are made by Hugo de Jonge, by Martin van Rijn, by me. There are many times when we were too early, but also too late. And if we were on time, as the evaluation will show later, we should have done less or more, for example in the package we are discussing today. If we look back in a few months, it will appear that we have made mistakes today. No doubt about it. That is inevitable if you are in a crisis on sight. But Mr Wilders went one step further. He said apologize for that. I say: I want to see that evaluation first. If that link turns out to be there, I'll be the first to apologize. But doing that now, knowing that there were shortages at the time, and we're all working hard to get into it, I think. I would like to say to Mr Wilders that if this evaluation shows that there is a direct link and that I and other ministers are to blame, then we will of course apologize. But I do want to make them if I can make them out of my chest too, and not now on the basis of the argument that I want to be rid of Mr Wilders. I don't think that's the right argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u66	It is not gratuitous, because we all know that all of this has already come out in the open, for example, that those nursing homes were not on the list for the distribution of protective equipment. They weren't even in the back of the line. They weren't even in the picture. They weren't even in the picture! So that's just been a huge mistake. It goes without saying that the people in care also say that people get infected earlier and become sick rather when you send in care and nursing care staff that you do not protect, to older, vulnerable people. People go home, meet other people and then go to vulnerable elderly people without gloves, mouth cap or anything. So I think it is gratuitous to say now that we are waiting for an evaluation to come. You have the people in the care that work there... I'm not telling you that you don't mind people dying, because I know that you and everyone in the cabinet hates it, but we're also here to take responsibility. Responsibility is that the people in the care that work there were at the back of the list and were deliberately not in the distribution system. That's what got people infected. As a result, 400, 500 healthcare workers have been admitted to hospitals and nine have died. Older people in nursing homes have died massively. And it's still not in order with the neighborhood nurse and the maid. Can I at least ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to say, for example, when it comes to domestic aid, that there is no more restriction, because now that I know this, I have learned my lesson; they get the protective equipment if they want it, because they come into contact with elderly people who are vulnerable and, asymptomatic or not, can have the complaints?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u67	In particular, for household care, Van Rijn may address this later on and take additional measures. What we need to realise here is that there were huge shortages of protective equipment in most of Europe. Then Mr Wilders will start with the one flight to China he started a few weeks ago. I replied to that at the time. There was one flight, not organized from the government, organized privately, and that's not why we had big deficits. I'd really like to separate that from that. But there were big deficits. That is why it was important in the distribution model to ensure, initially, that there was sufficient material in the hospitals, in the ICU departments and in the nursing departments. As soon as there was more space, the distribution model has been adapted. That's what happened the week after Easter, I thought. At that time, the distribution model was adapted so that sufficient material will also be available for other parts of the care. Yes, it is quite conceivable that there is a link between the fact that there was a shortage of resources and a test capacity and the fact that there has been more mortality. I'm not ruling that out at all. That is, of course, a discussion that you are having throughout Europe. The fact is that we had to deal with very large deficits and that we had to make the political choices in these large deficits. That's not running away from your responsibility. That's answering questions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u68	Finally, in this interruption, my third to the Prime Minister. Of course, it's not a coincidence of that flight. Of course it's not a coincidence of that flight. Once again, I quoted it in my term of office, and I had it sent to China with about the entire stock we had of protective equipment. You could have said, "I won't let that happen! No pieces to China; I confiscate them or I buy them myself and I go over them in terms of price. I'll make sure they stay in the Netherlands." That was exactly at that time when the deficits have arisen. You can check it in terms of the date................................................................................................................................................................................................. So sending that plane to China while people here had deficits, our heroes in care, has been a huge, but also huge mistake. Let's talk about housekeeping. It's not like the rules have been changed. It is literally stated in the document on what has been amended that support under the Wmo, such as domestic assistance, guidance and daily spending, can often be limited to 1.5 metres away and that protective equipment is not needed. That's not gonna work! Walk with someone from the maid service who cleans especially at the elderly's home. That's not often at five feet. That's also often when people now have asymptomatic complaints. So I ask you once again: learn your lesson from what happened at the nursing homes and say here that when it comes to domestic aid, for example, people always get the protection they deserve not only in special circumstances but always in special circumstances. Otherwise, we'll be back with the baked pears, with sick and recorded people and the dead in the house help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u69	That flight to China wasn't a government flight. It was early February and it was a private initiative. What Mr Wilders is actually asking is: had that flight stopped. Last time I asked: what did that mean at the moment for the influx to the Netherlands, from that country, of those crucial protective equipment? I would like to do that evaluation once again, of what the effects would be on that if we had done so at the time. With regard to household care, he should quote the piece completely. It also states that if domestic care considers it necessary in certain circumstances to have additional material, they carry that emergency package. It's taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u70	Mr Asscher and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u71	The Prime Minister says we're sailing on sight. Then it's important to know what he's looking at. Especially when I hear the story about the man who's rehabilitating, in the power of his life, you realize it's dangerous for virtually everyone, at least for all adults. So the question is what is the Prime Minister's strategy, what is the government's strategy? Is that a strategy aimed at containing as much control as possible, as much control as possible and thus as little sick as possible, not even the man who now needs to be rehabilitated? Or is the strategy to remain within the existing healthcare capacity, to ensure that care is not over-asked again, but within it as much freedom as possible and therefore accept that more people become sick and enter intensive care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u72	The strategy has been unchanged since the TV speech I was allowed to make on March 16th. In that I have outlined that there are actually three possibilities. You can let it go. At some point, we would have had 23,000 people on the ICU. Well, there wouldn't have been a place for that and so there would probably have been a lot of deaths. The other extreme is a lockdown until there is a vaccine, but that vaccine may take a long time. So we should stay indoors for a very long time, with far-reaching social and economic consequences. So we choose the scenario of maximum checking. That means you're steering, making sure on the one hand that vulnerable people, elderly people and people with vulnerable health are as well protected as possible, and on the other hand, and at the same time ensuring that care capacity can handle it. You could also choose, as some suggest, for now steering on a dispersal factor of almost zero, and no more hospitalizations at all. You could do that. You could do that now. You could say now: we're an end now, so let's just keep everything closed for a few months. This does not seem sensible to us, because it would not only have enormous economic effects, but also social effects and emotional effects on people. But it doesn't seem wise to us either because in an open economy like the Netherlands there is a very good chance that you will re-introduce the virus. Already on the first flight coming back from abroad, at the first time Schiphol is going to turn around again, when people return who have been gone, when foreigners come back here, there are far-reaching risks for an open economy like that of the Netherlands. So our strategy was, is and remains: maximum control. That means: steering on protecting the elderly, steering on making sure the care capacity can handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u73	With all due respect, this is not an answer to the question. The Prime Minister sketches two extremes: to lock everyone up to saint-juttemis versus 23,000 people on ic's. With those extremes, the middle position always seems the best. But there's definitely a choice in there. Do you want to contain as much as possible and actually control as much as possible? That means you want as little sick as possible. Zero isn't real, but you want as little as possible. And if there's an infection, get in there, trace it, isolate it. Or are you saying, no, we find those other elements and arguments, it's okay if you're clear about that, so heavy that we just accept that more people are getting sick? Then we do not want that maximum control and for example we are going to open the catering industry on 1 June. There is no health argument for that, but this is actually done on the basis of an economic argument. In order to assess whether the cabinet is doing well, I think it is good to know what the strategy is now. The Prime Minister says it's unchanged. That's odd in my eyes when sailing on sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u74	If Mr Asscher were to force me to choose between those two options, I would choose his first. That makes me feel more at home, that is to check as much as possible. He also says that he doesn't send it on hospital admissions or no deaths. But you'll try to contain it as much as you can. That is why, within this strategy of controlling care capacity and at the same time ensuring that vulnerable people are protected as effectively as possible, we are paying particular attention to the spread of the virus. So you're not just looking at that R=0, so how many people are infected by someone who has the virus. R should be less than 1, and preferably a little under 1. You also look at the number of infections, because that also determines how important that first factor is. You're also checking on the hospitals. That is why, in order to make all this possible, it is also so important to have that vision and insight into the spread. Minister De Jonge will deal with that later. If you have that vision and insight, if there are fireplaces again, you can kick them out. This will allow you to intervene as quickly as possible when that happens. In the choices Asscher presents to me within that scenario of maximum checking, I choose with him for the first choice. But it is also part of this that we both accept that there will be hospitalisations in the near future, that in the coming period there will probably always be people on the ice with COOVID-19/corona, that unfortunately, people will continue to die of them. That is a social fact that we choose explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'm not doing that at all. I'll ask the cabinet what the strategy is. First I ask: is it maximum control and containment? Or is it: within the care capacity as much freedom as possible? First, the Prime Minister says that that strategy has never changed; you can choose between Scylla and Charybdis, and I'm going through it. Then he says: we actually want the same thing. But then he calls it steering on the care capacity. That care capacity is the extreme bandwidth; that is not something we can steer on. We're not gonna leave the ICUs full as much as we can. You wouldn't want as many patients as possible. In that light, for the third time, I would ask: is the strategy indeed contained and maximum control? So far we've been working on the experts; that was the visibility. Now the OMT hasn't advised us to open the catering business. If the strategy is indeed contained and maximum control, why open up the catering industry? Or is there actually another strategy that is more like what we heard in the TV speech? Is the strategy: the virus is around, we will have to live with it and within that capacity we will continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mr Asscher now sees a contradiction between our speeches. It says what I said in the TV speech. You send on the care capacity and you send on protecting people who are older or have vulnerable health as much as possible. Inside, you do everything you can to track the virus, that you know how it develops, so that you can kick it out quickly, when it pops up the head, that it doesn't get bigger. That's why the tracking, the source and contact research, the work of the GGD, is so important. At the same time, of course, you also look at the hospital capacity and the situation with the vulnerable. Besides, you can't completely steer at zero. I can't, because then the damage would be enormous. Then you're almost in that third scenario. Mr Asscher, I think I understand the misunderstanding. He says, "You choose June 1st." We don't choose that. Just as clear: we do not choose to open cafes and restaurants on 1 June. We say that if the figures continue to develop well in the coming weeks, we hope and expect that this will be possible on 1 June, but only on the basis of advice from the virologists and epidemiologists. They will have to advise us to do so in the week before 1 June, or that given the development of those figures can be justified. So they look at the spread, the number of infections and the situation in hospitals. If it can't be justified, Mr. Asscher, we won't do it. Then it's done later two weeks later, a month later. We're not gonna take any unnecessary risks here. I would like to add the following, and then I immediately answered a lot of questions that I have here. The measures starting on Monday apply to schools and contact professions. The epidemiologists and the virologists say that they have a very limited effect. So to those, from the corner of Mr Klaver and others, who asked if we should not have waited any longer, my answer is that we are actually doing so. We are actually waiting until 1 June, because the measures we take 11 May have a very limited effect, according to the experts from epidemiology and virology who advise us, on the spread of the virus. They say you can do this without having major effects. But the things that could possibly involve greater risks are terraces, cafes, you name it, the things in the package of June 1st, we are only going to do if a week in advance proves that it can be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u77	Last question on this point. What is responsible is, of course, a consequence of the strategy you choose. I'm happy with the answer, but I'd really like to fill it out. Because responsible in the light of the strategy that aims to control, control and, if it pops up somewhere, kick out the fire, is a different than responsible in the sense that the care can handle it. So on the basis of what number or data, other than the ic-capacity...............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u78	That's the main point you're sending: the risk of another outbreak, so that R goes structurally above 1. But you do that in combination with, indeed, the state of the hospitals and the number of infections. At the hospitals I notice the second misunderstanding. It's a good thing we're clearing that up now. It's not like you can handle more cases if you expand the hospitals. You can't do that. You can't just expand the hospital sector. What you can do is make sure that if an accident happens, so if there was unexpectedly a peak on the ic's, you'll be able to scale quickly. But you're not gonna send for that. You're not gonna say we can now accept that much larger ic capacity as bandwidth. That ic capacity is now 1,150. We want to take it to 1,700, but it's not like 1,700 is permanent. That's a buffer. That also requires a lot of staff. It would require far too much effort if it were permanent. And up there, you want to keep a piece of space. But that's only meant, especially that second part, in case of accidents. And the first thing: if it turns out in practice that you are getting more people on ic, then you want to avoid it being at the expense of cancer surgery or other operations that would otherwise have to be postponed. So that is really very essential. So it's not like you can just expand the hospitals and say, well, then we can accept more. In addition: social. We say we want to protect the elderly and the vulnerable. You know that older people and vulnerable people are very sensitive to this virus. Suppose you would say: because the hospital capacity is so expanded that what might be possible in emergency situations, but not under normal circumstances we accept that many more people are dying. Then you won't be trying to protect your elders and your vulnerable, will you? If you did, you'd have a social disaster, wouldn't you? It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u79	Your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u80	I get this point. We also agree on the need not to expose the elderly and the vulnerable unnecessarily. I asked: what is the final litmus test on 20 May to decide on the 1 June package? The Prime Minister says, "That's the R."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u81	Yeah, combined with the other two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u82	In combination with the capacity. But you don't want to get into that capacity demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u83	Can I have it again exactly... I'm sorry. I'm interrupting. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u84	This morning RIVM said: the R is always at least two weeks old. So on May 20th, we know what the R was like yesterday. Well, that's not a good criterion to base yourself on, is it? Should an containment strategy not be aimed at testing and tracing much, in order to have an overview of the number of infections, and to decide on 20 May on the catering industry? That instead of assuming the R, where there's a huge delay and who doesn't say anything about growth or shrinkage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u85	Yes, but I think that this can be done now, and I will explain in such a way why, and that is certainly true after 1 June for the package of 1 July. In the month of June, of course, you already have more possibilities, our expectation is, to finally be able to test everyone who has respiratory complaints. Why isn't it a disaster if we can't do it before June 1st? Because the numbers are going down right now. That really seems like a steady trend. Of the measures we take 11 May, the same RIVM and the other virologists and epidemiologists say that they will have a very limited effect. So, yeah, you're taking a limited risk. It always is. But I think this is a limited risk that we can take because the numbers are going down now. In any case, that package is now the model sketch, which will have a very limited effect on an increase in the number of infections or an increase in the rate of spread. Of course, Mr Asscher is right when you go from 1 June to 1 July, but not so much when it comes to 15 June. I'm sure that MBO package will work. That intermediate package. But for that July 1 package, where you go from 30 to 100 for example, you really need more visibility. That is, of course, also in the advice given by the OMT. You have to have much more insight and insight when it comes to the spread of the virus than we have at the moment. We have therefore said that this step is sensible. But even then we are not going to take it now. 11 May we do, on the advice of the experts. But we're getting new advice from those same experts. They're not gonna say, "The meter's just like that." They are going to modelly look at what is expected, also looking back at the past few weeks. We get that about a week before June 1st. If it turns out it's unwise, we'll do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u86	I think this is today's fundamental question: what exactly is the strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u87	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u88	I understand the Prime Minister often says we're sailing on fog. I think everyone here understands that, because we do. We just don't know very much yet. If then the question is whether we are now focusing on the maximum containment of the virus, or perhaps even eliminating the virus or controlling the virus, so let the controlled go around, which has been mentioned here once in a while, I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what that is about: we are doing one. That 'one' is what I hear the Prime Minister say in reply to Mr Asscher's question, namely: if I have to opt for the maximum containment of the virus...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u89	Check.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u90	Oh, check it out, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u91	Maximum control; that's the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u92	Maximum check. Well, exactly. But I think that's the confusion. Of course, you could also say: we are now holding on to the measures and we are not going to check for it, but to eliminate the virus, to limit it to the maximum, to reduce the virus. Then my question to the Prime Minister is why he does not choose to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u93	Well, actually, we choose until June 1st. 'Cause until June 1st, we're gonna check it out. Until 1 June, we will not take any measures which the experts say will have a visible effect on the spread of the virus. Before 1 July there is a package for where there may be more risk. This means that you will be advised on it again or that it is wise at that time. But we have to be sharp, too. In my view, Mr Asscher did not say: I want you to go to a scenario where you actually have no spread of that virus at all. This is not really conceivable in an open economy like the Netherlands, in which so many people are travelling and so many people return and in which so many new introductions of the virus can take place. And it is not necessary either, because we expect to be able to significantly improve the visibility and understanding of the spread of the virus in the month of June, by testing anyone with respiratory complaints. That's also in the OMT's advice. But until 1 June, you are actually going through the package that we now have with a very limited risk, the experts say, by opening the schools and the contact professions. This is very likely to have very little effect on the spread of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u94	I hear the Prime Minister now saying that he still chooses the scenario of maximum control. I do think it is important to mark today that this is a choice. That is what you are saying, of course, but I think it might be too easy to get over the scenario of eliminating the virus, so it is really full of bets on testing, detecting and isolating, is also a choice. The Prime Minister says: yes, we are an open economy; there are now planes coming in and planes going out. But of course that's a choice. We can also say: we don't do that yet; we are committed to maximum elimination of the virus. In the long term, therefore, we may be able to ask the Prime Minister much more quickly than with the other scenario for an open economy, not a very limited economy, a one-and-a-half meters economy, a crippled economy, as the road map shows. Would the Prime Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u95	I think it is a bit semantic, because then I think we say the same thing, or Mrs Marijnissen should want to go to the third scenario of the three scenarios I outlined on 16 March: a lockdown until it's completely gone. But then you have to wait until the vaccine arrives. Because in an open country like ours, in which so many people travel, so many people return from their travels and so many people come from abroad, there will always be new introductions. So that's never entirely possible. What you do have to do, of course, is to make sure that you keep it under control, and so check it as much as possible. Or call it maximum containment; I can live with that too. I think it's both fine; it's a little semantic. But you do not say to the Netherlands: we guarantee that no one dies anymore. It can't be. Nor can you say to the Netherlands: we guarantee that no one will ever come to the ICU again or come to the hospital. Even in the near future, as long as there is no vaccine, people will probably be in intensive care, lying in hospitals and dying of the virus. But you're trying to limit that as much as you can. Why do you do that? You do this not only because you don't want to get the hospitals and regular care in trouble, but also because you want to protect the elderly and people with vulnerable health. If the number of people who die were to rise, you would no longer be working to meet that other goal, namely to protect vulnerable and elderly people as much as possible. That is what I have just said to Mr Asscher. In that sense, it is a bit semantic and I think we say the same thing, unless Mrs Marijnissen says: I want you to bring it all the way back to zero and then do something. That is not necessary and it makes no sense either, because people come back here and there are new introductions again. But that's why it's important, and I think there's the bridge that makes us agree to get a look at and insight into the virus. And so we can achieve that on a much larger scale in June, because we can test everyone with complaints on the airways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u96	I do not think it is a semantic discussion, because I think there is a moment of choice now, and it is important that we at least be honest and clear about it now, and that we see that this is taking a risk. The Prime Minister refers to flights coming in. That is clearly what is on the table today, but that is, of course, a choice. We can also choose not to do that for a while, not to allow those flights yet. That's a choice. And here's what I'm wondering. Is it not important, precisely because the Prime Minister says so many times that we are sailing on sight, to hold on to the anchor points that the OMT had formulated? I would like to mention, for example, sufficient test capacity. It is said that it is not there yet; it is only from 1 June. I also mention sufficient source and contact research at the GDD. It is said that we are working very hard on it; we are expanding, but it is not there yet. Isn't it important, just because you're on sight, to hold on to those anchor points? And what makes the Prime Minister think today: no, I am going to ignore that at the moment and we can still move towards relaxation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u97	No, I'm not. We don't have relaxation right now. May 11th, I don't think it's easy. From the package of 11 May, the same experts say that it has such a limited effect on the spread of the virus that we can take that risk. That has a very limited effect. The package of 1 June will be submitted to the same experts, with the question: advise us; what effect will this have? And that package of June 1 comes into effect in a month in which also the other... You are working in that transition period to give social space, so that society can get something going again, and at the same time anchor what we have achieved in the outbreak phase and what we will continue to achieve over the next few weeks, and as far as I am concerned, too. That's the maximum control, maximum containment, of the virus. For that, you do need those things that the advisors have outlined to us. It is very important to have insight into and insight into the spread of the virus. But the protection of vulnerable people and ensuring that hospital capacity is good are also important. Once again, as I have just said to Mr Asscher, it is not just to accept more sick people, but to prevent regular care from getting back into trouble if an error is made in the assessment and there is still a peak. Those are all things we're doing. So I feel like we're saying the same thing, unless Mrs Marijnissen says: I want it all the way to zero now, and only when it's all the way to zero can something happen again. Then I'll say I don't see what the point is if you're able to test people with respiratory problems at the same time and then do source and contact research and have all the other things right for each other. If you continue to bring it all the way to zero, that means that people are still at home for a long time, with all the social consequences of that. Many more jobs will then be lost because many smaller and large companies where people work will not be able to get to work. So that's also a trade-off. I don't think that's necessary. That's not an unreasonable risk take. You take a risk with that other thing, but you take another risk. I don't know if that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u98	I would like to continue on this point, and I realise that it is much easier to ask questions than to give answers, and that it has something special that the Chamber first asks for perspective and that then there are a lot of questions when the Cabinet does so, for example whether it is going too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u99	It's never good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u100	However, this is a very fundamental debate, because what Mr Marijnissen is referring to is the difference between maximum control and maximum containment. One way, all the way to zero, is fiction, but maximum containment is the choice ahead. Then you have to go further down with all those factors, especially with that reproduction factor. When he was asked at the technical briefing to Van Dissel what he was going to advise, that was a question from Mrs Ellemeet, his answer was: in the end that is up to you and that is up to the cabinet. If the Prime Minister says he's going to submit it to the OMT and that he can advise it, I think they'll come up with an opinion, with pros and cons, but eventually it'll be up to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u101	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u102	Then what are the red lines, the stripes, that the Prime Minister draws in the sand? What are the key factors for the cabinet in the final assessment that it will have to make later this month?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u103	At that point, I want to be able to look into nursing, care, so that we can say with the measures we are taking with certainty that it will not have unacceptable consequences for care. Fortunately, we have managed to treat heart attacks and car accidents on the ic, but also scheduled operations must be able to continue; accidents aside, and I mean policy accidents. You always have to provide buffer capacity. In principle, you should be able to say that with certainty. Secondly, I want to be able to look into everyone in the Netherlands who is older or has vulnerable health because we are not taking unreasonable risks. At the same time, I realize that if you were absolutely certain about this, there would be a point where you also run the risk that the financing of those intensive cares will no longer be possible because you no longer have tax revenues. So you will have to find some balance somewhere, but health care is leading and the position of vulnerable and elderly people is also leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u104	And yet that's a little vague. You have to measure that qualitatively somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u105	Oh, I'm sorry, can I still answer that part? We will ask the Outbreak Management Team to look at those three indicators. First of all, what is the situation with the number of infections? We have always said that this R is very important, but in combination with the number of infections. I really want to say that, because if the R gets a bit more to the 1, it's less bad with a low number of infections than with a high number of infections, especially if you now also have insight into and insight into the spread of the virus thanks to source and contact research and tests etc. We also need to look again at the situation in hospitals. You can't say with a dashboard that we're driving 50 or 60. That's not going to happen. Or that we're driving 100 or 130, just to say it in the terms of my party. I can't. There isn't a meter like that. It is ultimately a weighting of those different factors. Then you ask the experts to show in the models what it means and whether it will have an acceptable effect if we do this with the terraces and the cafés and increase the numbers a month later. In the end, I want to be able to look into the vulnerable in society and the people in nursing care, of course, the people in nursing, but I also meant in particular the people in the cure at the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u106	Van Dissel said: R is one factor; we are looking at that. There are advisors who say that it really has to be much lower. The R would be around 0.9 by now. Then you actually have very little room for manoeuvre. So you can only rise very little before you go over 1 again, with all the consequences of that. Van Dissel combined that with absolute numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u107	Yeah, with the number of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u108	Exactly. Because when it comes to very large numbers, it is much more dramatic than when it comes to very small numbers. Then you could swing a little more around that 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u109	Exactly. That's what I just said. That's right. That's him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u110	Of course I do not want a hard figure in the sense of 130 or 100, but still: what do we need, even in managing expectations? There are now many people who hope for measures: my restaurant can open, the holiday park can open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u111	Yeah, but you could be disappointed on June 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u112	What do you need if you have to go more to that containment and if all numbers really have to go down? Then there are a few red lines you should draw, right? You have to be very clear, don't you? It's the Prime Minister and his team that should eventually do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u113	Yeah, but in the end, you don't say, with so many infections, with that R... I can't. Because it also depends on where they occur and whether the outbreak of infections can be kicked out very quickly or not. That also depends on it, and therefore also on the third element in the triangle, besides the R and the number of infections. Van Dissel rightly said that it also has to do with the expected effects on hospitals. Let me mention just one thing: if the number of infections among young people were to increase, for example, or if the R were to increase among young people, it would of course be less serious. That is also serious, because then you have to make sure that you protect the groups of older people, but then you have a different story than when the R is among the groups of older people. There are also differences between them. So you can't say: there is a dashboard and this meter should be right there and that meter should be there. In the end, they make a modelly assessment: what happens? You are absolutely right: the road map is there. The only certainty is next Monday. That is what the opinion is about; we have taken a decision on this: the hairdressers and so on may open. But what happens on June 1st is uncertain. And what happens on July 1st is even more uncertain. We're really gonna check that out. I can say, however, that it is expected to be more than three weeks until 1 June; 3.5 weeks will continue to improve, because the effects of the 11 May package are very limited and you can already see that the number of hospital admissions and the number of ic-records has fallen very much. Oh, thank God. But if we were to come to new insights into these factors in that triangle, the R, the number of infections and the hospitals, which are worrying, then that would not happen. For the hospitals, it's important again that you look into what groups of these infections occur and where that R goes. Anyone who looks and has a restaurant: I sincerely hope you can open on June 1st; I would like nothing more, but I can't guarantee it; we only know that a week in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u114	Finally, Madam President. The cabinet seems to be focusing on more dampening, than checking, so on bringing down all indicators further. Can we at least say that the level we have now is not sufficient to take the measures in the railway book before 1 June?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u115	No, you can't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u116	Is the condition for taking the measures of 1 June as they are written in the booklet, that all those numbers are better, that they go down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u117	No, you can't say that. That is why I will later say to Mr Asscher that I do not have any reports... There are no reports of the OMT's meetings either. We don't get them either; we just get the advice. In the end, you ask our experts: purely epidemiological and virological and also, of course, hospital capacity and pediatrics; they are all together. At the latest in the week before, you'd like to have some advice and say, guys, here's what we're going to do. Of course, we wouldn't have written this down if the experts had drawn the red card at the moment, like, "Oh, you're never gonna save that on June 1st." That didn't happen. So we think this could be done on the basis of these figures. You can't say "the numbers have to go further down," because then the question is: what number do you mean? Once again, if the R were to occur in children or in young people, it would not be serious, because in most cases these infections have so few consequences in themselves. I have just mentioned an example where it did have consequences, when we visited this morning. Of course, it has a greater impact on the vulnerable and the elderly. So it will also depend on that. So in the end, that's a weighting. That comes back in an OMT advice and you will see it all again, but you cannot say: that meter must stand there. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u118	Finally, really. I understand the Prime Minister doesn't want to commit right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u119	But you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u120	... onnumbers. You're gonna have to weigh it eventually. In the end, you're gonna have to make that very difficult trade-off. Many advisors, several advisors now say you need a bigger buffer. So the assumption is that we're going down with the curves and we're getting better. I can't record the Prime Minister on it, but then the premise under which we work is that it's moving in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u121	The premise must be that your actions are directed towards the two main objectives of protecting the weak and elderly in society and ensuring that care does not again have to deal with a situation in which normal operations and so on cannot continue, which, of course, also has consequences in terms of more mortality because people may not be helped quickly enough by cancer or anything else, with a higher risk of people dying. You're sending it. However, you cannot say: that R must necessarily be at 0.7 or 0.8, because if that R is at 0.9 or at 1 in a group or in a region where that is not bad at all, then it depends... So this is all being weighed together, but ultimately the objective is that fragile broad concern, and we are also working in June to nail down what we achieved during the outbreak phase. We do this by ensuring, if there are errors, that hospitals do not flood and by increasing testing capacity, taking further measures and giving behavioural advice to older people, for example. I agree with Mr Segers that the latter is not from 'you should not go to the discotheque', which they did not usually do anyway, but from 'it may not be as clever', if that discotheque was already open at all. That's what you have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u122	Then I go to Mr Van der Staaij, then to Mr Klaver and then to Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u123	It's a good thing we can get this point straightened out. On the one hand, we do not want to wait a day longer with relaxations if that could be justified, but on the other hand we do not want to deal with relaxations a day earlier if that is not yet justified. That is why this strategy is very important. I find one point a little confusing. At the beginning of this whole crisis we were taken by the OMT and by the Prime Minister with: pay attention, we prefer to contain and that means very fanatical testing, tracing and isolating. We got rid of it when we couldn't do it anymore. There was an emergency, so you had to let go. Then we talked about maximum control. And now the Prime Minister says: it's actually a bit semantic: it doesn't really matter that much. Then I don't understand that very well when I look at the beginning, where it was specifically put side by side. Doesn't it matter when it comes to the fanaticism with which you commit to that testing, tracking and isolating?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u124	This will help the discussion. When it comes to maximum control from virology and epidemiology and how it relates to the work of the GGD, you naturally try to achieve a situation of maximum containment. That didn't happen in Brabant at some point, because the numbers were too large. In other parts of the Netherlands, this has almost been achieved to this day. In the North, of course, there have been far fewer cases. In the end, you want to be able to test everyone who has complaints and you can also do source and contact research right away, and that you also have an app, because you still miss two things when testing via the GGD. So as an addition to the GGD, an app is important, because you're always missing out for just a few hours, a day or two days between "I have something" and the source and contact research that the GGD is going to do. Two. You can say, "I've spoken to that one and that one." But that nice lady at Schiphol Airport who flew to South Africa, where you told a cup of coffee that she should also visit that vineyard, you don't know her name, at least if you were neat, and besides, you don't have her number. That app will let the lady know about: "Oh, you're at risk now." So you're gonna need that app in addition, so it's still important. It is not conditional but is "very much nice to have" in the package. And of course, you do that to contain as much as you can. The overall strategy is to monitor as much as possible. If the overall strategy were to contain maximum, then for everything you do now, all meters should go to zero. That's what you'd want in the end: that there's no transmission of the virus at all. If you wait for that, you run a huge risk that eventually the number of suicides continues to rise, domestic violence continues to increase, children can't go to school, businesses get hit, people work, and jobs are lost. Of course, that also has a huge effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u125	I can hear what the Prime Minister is saying. It seems that if you talk about containment again, there will suddenly be an additional condition, which we didn't talk about at the beginning. The condition that this would mean that we should go to zero contagions. That wasn't the original thought. It was: it is very important to be able to trace any contamination properly and to test any contamination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u126	Yeah, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u127	These are conditions for relaxation, because otherwise you run the risk that it will increase exponentially again very quickly. We learned that from the crisis earlier. Is that gonna stay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u128	That's why we're so busy making sure that anyone who has lung complaints or colds can be tested, and that we can do a source and contact research right away. That's why the occupation at the GGD has tripled. Anyway, I don't want to shave the answer from Hugo de Jonge here. He's about to elaborate on that. That's why it's so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u129	Finally. Does that mean, also from the OMT opinion of 6 April, that we should actually get a picture of any possible contamination by testing and in any case you should be able to do source and contact research, that this remains a tough condition for further relaxation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u130	Yes, but not for the package of June 1st. We're in transition now. That is why it is also so important with which advice the OMT comes in the week before 1 June. At the moment, the figures are developing very favourably. According to the OMT, the package of 11 May will have no significant impact on this. Of course, there will always be a little more spread when you expand something, but the expectation is that it will be very limited. So I guess those numbers are gonna go down a little bit. You're in a transition phase where you do a few things at once. The anchoring of these three conditions means that, if a policy error is made, care does not flood, there is sufficient protection for the people involved and there is testing capacity. At the same time, we must look very wisely at what you can broaden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u131	In itself, this debate is rather worrying. Now in the eighth week there is a discussion about what exactly the strategy is. That's more than semantic when it comes to controlling or controlling this disease. I haven't heard any of my colleagues say that we can go to zero. The Prime Minister does so all the time, because he describes the extremes: 'we must go to zero'. Maximum containment does mean we're trying to get it as low as possible. That is why we have asked in our contribution why we are not providing a slightly larger buffer in that R. When we look at Denmark, we see that the limited openings that we get from 11 May have led to an increase in the R-value by one third, from 0.6 to 0.9. That's a hell of a lot. If you get that, it'll affect all the other steps we can take after that. The fact that my group has reservations about the 11th, about these additional steps, has to do with the fact that we want to be able to open up the economy as quickly as possible and that we are afraid that otherwise we will take a step backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u132	We agree on that. For that package of 11 May, we have not been advised by experts for nothing. They say: no, this has hardly any effect on the R. There's something we have to sail on, and I understand that. What are we gonna do on May 11th? One. The schools, primary schools and childcare in a 50% schedule, preferably whole days and not half days because of the movements. That's one thing we do. We know that for that group, if it's already running the virus, there's a very small chance that this is serious. Two. The contact professions, with all the conditions we put in place. From that, the virologists tell us that they have a very limited effect on the figures. These figures continue to develop in a favourable direction. 1 June is a package that is more exciting and therefore we are going to get our advice back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u133	We have already discussed the schools in previous debates. Everyone's glad they're getting back on track. That's a risk we're taking. There's a step to that now. I'm thinking about my own hairdresser for several reasons. The bottom line is that as an entrepreneur he can also get back to work. I think we all do. The point is: if you take that step too quickly now, when we actually still have quite a lot of infections, then we may not be able to take the next step on 1 June. In the worst case scenario, we even have to take a step back and close the hairdressers and all other contact professions again. That's the concern of this Chamber. That's why we're asking. What exactly is the indicator this cabinet is sending to? What are the red lines you're looking at? It's too easy to say that this can't be cut with scissors. Although it is very difficult, in Germany they mention 50 infections out of 100,000 inhabitants. That's a direction you're heading for. You've made a point in the fog. Then you're gonna have to qualitatively define what that means. It matters if 49 of those 50 infections are children. In any case, the cabinet must create a fixed point where it is moving. We can check that as a room. I think there is a great need for this. That should be clarified by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u134	I'm trying to give it to you, but I don't think I can. That is why I keep saying that it is important to have very strict advice in decisions of this kind. It is an issue that does not have to do with giving space to one or the other economic sector, but with a virus that requires very specialist knowledge of virologists and epidemiologists. They sit together in a club that we ask questions about, such as: this is what we intend to do with the schools on 11 May; we have looked carefully at it and we have done everything we can. The RIVM modelleur makes all models worldwide. He has a very high regard. Luckily, we have him here, too. He says this is possible. We say: okay; now we want to include the contact professions. Then everything will be passed on. And yes, that has very little effect. This means that the expectation is that this will have so little effect in the coming weeks that you will actually do what some of you are asking, namely: keep it careful for a while. So that's what we're doing. Then we say: with this we expect you to get to a point where you can do this, in combination with nailing down the results achieved from the outbreak phase through, for example, testing, and that you can take a next step on 1 June. But again: only after consulting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u135	My point isn't if I trust the advisors. With all the criticism that's possible, I find it incredibly handsome what RIVM does. So I am not addressing the RIVM or the modelleurs, but I am addressing the cabinet on its responsibility in making the decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u136	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u137	For that, I want to know where the cabinet is headed. It is quite clear that there will be an opinion later, but what is the focus? Just when there's fog, you have to make sure you have a point to focus on. That is completely vague for me, and in my view for many of my fellow Members. That is why it would be good to mention a figure and to indicate how many infections on 100,000 inhabitants are acceptable. If the number gets out of there, we can't move on. In fact, maybe we should step back. We're going to have to say that in qualitative terms. We ask the expert for advice on exactly what this number means. But we're gonna need a grade like that. We've been asking for this kind of information for eight weeks now. I believe that it is necessary to create clarity, including for society, and to make it transparent how we decide later. Let me be very clear: I fully support the cabinet on 1 June. Let's hope we can, but if we can't, we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u138	Then we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u139	But this requires transparency on the basis of which you come to this. You should give that clarity already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u140	You have these hearings every week. You will then see how the virological experts look at this. They're not just looking at the number of people infected by one person who has the infection. They also look at the total volume of infections. Inside, of course, they also look at which groups are involved and what is happening in the hospitals. If, with a certain retroactive effect, the number of people on the ic is very low, it seems that, in so far as there are infections, they do not touch groups that are at great risk of becoming in a serious health situation or, worse still, in intensive care, with all the consequences. There's no number for that. That simply cannot be done. Before that, there's the triangle I sketched. It's not prettier. I also agree with Mr Klaver that this is ultimately a political decision. It is ultimately the political decision that says: on the basis of that opinion we are going to do so. Mr Klaver's question in the run-up to 1 June will be: why do you do that? Then there must be good advice. What I can now estimate is that these advisers will look at these three elements: what about the spread, what about the number of infections and what about the hospitals? That's how it works. But you can't say: that meter has to be there and that meter has to be there. Unfortunately. I wish! But that's not possible. You try to avoid losing sight of the two main objectives: to protect the weak, to protect the people with weaker health and the people who are older, to ensure that hospitals are able to function properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u141	Finally and finally. With this response from the Prime Minister, I believe that the circle is complete again or we are back at the beginning. It's about checking for maximum containment. At maximum checking, you can't actually indicate an exact number, because you have to send it to the hospital capacity and what that means. There is then a large difference between which age groups are infected. If maximum containment is the strategy, we want to try to keep society as open as possible and to reduce the number of infections to a maximum. Then you can call it a guide number. I believe that the Prime Minister has answered that the strategy is indeed the maximum control and not the maximum containment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u142	The strategy since my speech on 16 March has been checked to the maximum, but in there, of course, that's a very important element of the test policy. But even then, you're not gonna bring it all the way down to zero, because you're always gonna miss people. There will still be transactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u143	I can tell that's a little bothering me, to be perfectly honest. I haven't said at any time that it has to go back to zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u144	I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u145	I haven't said at any time that it has to go back to zero. And none of my colleagues said that. It bothers me because it happens all the time. It's almost a rhetorical trick: ridiculing what the opponent says in the debate. No one's saying back to zero. I don't have that illusion. I wish it could go to zero. The point is: do you try to prevent as many people as possible from getting ill? That is one strategy: to contain or to send a few more people to get sick as long as the hospital capacity is not overloaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u146	That's a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u147	That's two separate cases. So please don't pull it into the ludicrous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u148	But I won't, Mr. Chairman. Now Mr Klaver is ridiculing my words again because he thinks I'm making fun of him. I don't think we did either, but we're having a nice discussion here. Let's not fall into rhetoric. We'll do that again someday, when it comes to the economy or how to deal with it, I know a lot, but not on this subject. Agreed. I don't want to provoke anything, so let me put it this way: the overall strategy is up to control. You're trying to prevent people who are vulnerable from being affected by this and you want the hospitals to continue to function. You don't do that by endlessly expanding, because then on the other hand you're wrong again and then a lot of people who are vulnerable will still get sick. That's what you don't want. In there, you actually want to be able to test anyone who has complaints. We think we can do that in June. I think that Mr Klaver and I agree that if you can do that, you will have an insanely important instrument in your hands, if things go wrong, to be able to establish that very quickly, so that, if necessary, you can also take regional action. We did that on March 9th in Brabant. When things got out of hand, we gave the advice to work as much as possible at home. That was before the whole of the Netherlands was advised to stay home and work at home as much as possible. So that's what we did in Brabant. And that you're able to give that kind of advice at regional level, if necessary, isn't it also a form of containment? I'm just gonna look, without having to clear that up right now, whether we disagree, but I don't think we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u149	This is an important part of the debate. I have listened to it and I still have the need to mark our positions for a moment. I would ask the Cabinet not to be tempted to bring this complexity back to one or two simple target numbers. It's not intransparent, it's not vague, but it's just incredibly complex. That's why the briefing took so long, and that's why we have so many questions every week. If R goes up, it matters which group it is. There's a lot we don't know yet. But if for any reason it does not lead to a lot of ic-tax, then it is very annoying for the people who get sick and have mild complaints, but then that is no reason to close terraces or to close hairdressers. If a relatively low R in general, in a particular group, in a particular region, affects very vulnerable people, you will have to act hard there. At the briefing we see pictures of municipalities that were always in the news, because the burden on hospitals was very high, with very high mortality rates. That makes sense. We now also see municipalities that were less in the news, where the ic-emergency was not so high and where at once a lot of antibodies are found among the population. So apparently a lot of people have been infected there, without having to go to the hospital and without a tax on the ic. I would therefore like to ensure that we do not create a false model here in the search, in which we lose sight of reality, because it is easier to control politics and because it is more pleasant for us here. It's just very complex. And if we get new insights, maybe we should also have a new model of steering. I'd like to ask the Cabinet the same question. Maximum checking has a price. We are prepared to accept them. That price should not be disproportionate. You can always lock more, with maybe fewer people dying or fewer people coming on the ice. But you're trying to give space to the economy within what's maximum achievable in health care and health care, not the other way around. So you're not trying to control the virus to the maximum. I don't know how you could contain it even more than zero, but it isn't. I would therefore ask you not to come up with 'the R is steering' or'so many infections on so many people' later, because that is a false certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u150	I agree. At the same time you notice in this debate... Maybe I can make it explicit. Maybe I'm wrong, but it's good to do it anyway. From certain political points of view, I might imagine that I might be a little suspicious of that Prime Minister. I would think: it's from the VVD, and of course it wants... I'm not saying it's true, but I'm going to make it explicit. If there were a tension between economics and health care, it could be said: "Yes, while it is not really responsible, let's do things already." I'm not saying it's true, but it wouldn't be weird, anyway, if there was any suspicion. That's why I really want to say the following. Yes, what Dijkhoff is saying is correct, and that is what I am saying: you cannot put a hard figure on one of those indicators. It's too complex for that. But at the same time I said something about the concerns of the people in this country in my speech of 16 March, in the second paragraph. I remember having contact with Mr Asscher the day before. We spoke on March 14th or 15th. There were people in the Netherlands who were anxious at that time. Older people and people with poor health were anxious. That's why, Louis, it had that phrase in it. Older people and people with weak health watched that night. I literally said, "I realize you have extra concerns." And no matter what we do over the next few weeks and months, I'm never gonna accept that we're gonna take measures that put that group in danger. I can't take everything away, but I'm never gonna accept that we would take risks with that. At the same time, I, and also Hugo de Jonge and Martin van Rijn, would like to do everything in my power to ensure that measures do not increase the risk that hospitals will have to postpone the planned operations. So I'm not saying that this is going on with you, but maybe there's someone in society who thinks, "Yes, there's such a VVD as Prime Minister, who's gonna be the fun for a long time and for the economy." No! No, no, no. Health care first. And then when there's space, you want to give some space to society. Not because I want to defend companies here, but because it is also about people's happiness, because they can go back on the streets and because they can meet people again. This includes economic activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u151	I am reconsidering my question with this last answer from the Prime Minister. It will be a complicated stage in the debate if the Prime Minister starts to assess the reason why questions are being asked. I think there's two questions running through each other. As far as this figure is concerned, I agree with Mr Dijkhoff. That's way too complex. But the questions asked by Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Staaij relate precisely to the letter from that period in March in which a 'containment phase' and 'indammen' were discussed, versus a second phase, you would then be on the edge which, I believe, would be 'limitary'. In my view, the Members of Parliament are looking for the relationship between these texts and today's texts on maximum checking. That was said this morning in the hearing: 'That is a semantic discussion'. The Prime Minister said the same here. But would part of this semantic discussion not be dealt with, as well as the assessment of where questions come from, simply by going into this very explicitly in the next letter and referring to all these terms? Then no one has to ask these questions anymore and then the Prime Minister no longer has to assess why these questions are being asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u152	I will continue to do so, if I think things need to be made explicit, even though Mr Heerma does not like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u153	But I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u154	I'm answering now. One: I still decide whether I have an assessment and whether I make it explicit or not. And I think that can also help the debate. But let's get back to the question, because it's very real. Our strategy as of 16 March is: maximum control. By means of the source and contact research and testing you dam in maximum if there is a problem. The whole purpose of what De Jonge is now doing on behalf of all of us, is to contain as much as possible through the testing policy. The overall strategy is up to control, because we simply cannot guarantee that as a overall strategy you can contain as much as possible. Inside, that test policy is aimed at every time someone reports with complaints... You never know for sure if someone with complaints is coming forward. As a result, a guarantee of maximum containment as an overall strategy is not possible. What you can do and what we want is for someone to report with health complaints to be able to test themselves at that time. At that point it will be established what is going on and then a follow-up will be done. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u155	I would like to repeat my first question. If it is said a number of times this morning in the technical briefing and here in the debate that this is also a semantic discussion, which I believe, then I think it would be wise to weigh those words explicitly in the next briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u156	Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u157	It is also wise to indicate what role they have or do not have in their strategy, so that you can prevent us from standing here in two weeks' time and that it is: yes, but this is a semantic discussion. I think some of the MPs are looking for clarity. They now have their doubts about this, partly because it comes back in media and social media. In any case, we know what term within the strategy has what role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u158	I agree. Then I'll work out what I just said. The overall strategy is up to control. You can't guarantee for the whole of the Netherlands that you can limit everything to the maximum, but you can guarantee that the test policy is that you want to contain when someone reports. In Brabant that didn't happen in early March, because it got too big. Within the testing policy and the work of the GGD there, you had to move on to a next phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u159	I welcome the Prime Minister's commitment to greater clarity. I think we all need that. The Prime Minister also said in his presentation: if possible, and every time we look back. We're about to restart the contact calls. Certainly the vulnerable people and the elderly may be waiting for the physiotherapist, the pedicure and so on. If it turns out that something can't be done halfway, do we have a chance to see which parts we're going to do less? What steps are we taking now, and can some of them be abolished and some of them not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u160	That's the answer. I agree. You hope to be able to give some space on the basis of the figures on which you are very urgently advised. Those figures do not contain absolute certainty. In the context of the spread, what happens in hospitals and how many infections there are, you can say something about this in a sensible way. On that basis, we make decisions. If that would make the situation worse, in a way you don't want, the first thing you do is not take a next step. That's, of course, step one. If it were worse, in the worst case, you would have to ask people to stay home as much as possible. We are now taking the step from "stay home as much as possible" to "work at home as much as possible." We ask for advice from two of the three clubs that have formed themselves, which we also use to advise on how to spread and organize. You might say, "Stay home as much as you can." It could be. You could also say that the hairdressers are closing again. I would just like to mention something; of course, that is all possible. You don't want any of that, but you can't rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u161	One of the points was also that we need to control the corona virus. The question is whether this is a very clear directive. When does this Prime Minister say it's under control? Is that the R factor, or are there other factors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u162	No, actually, that's what Dijkhoff just said and whatever I echoed. You're looking at different indicators. In the context of this, you will see if there is a step to be taken. You can't put a hard number on that. If you were to say the R should always be this... If that factor increases in a group with little risk of going to the hospital or intensive care, then that's not so bad. If it's in a group where it is, it's bad. In such a case, you can also take regional measures. So you're also looking at the number of infections. You're even looking at what's happening in the hospitals. In the end, the position of older people and people with a slightly weaker health is leading, and whether hospitals are able to continue to do normal work, because that is so important and that has suffered in recent months. That is why we are also saying that Martin van Rijn is busy working on it and that we want to increase the ic capacity. That doesn't have to be structuralally up to 1,700, but you want that buffer to be there quickly and you really want to have a buffer up there. So that if we make mistakes and it turns out to peak again, you don't have to stop the usual surgeries right away. But it's not supposed to send at 1,700. I said this earlier in the debate against Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u163	I also agree with what Mr Dijkhoff said. If you can't point out one absolute number we're going to send... You want an infected corona patient to infect less than one next person, but you also need to keep looking at that pressure on care and vulnerable groups. The Prime Minister said a few times in his answers: "We have intervened before in Brabant and in Brabant the advice was rather to stay home and work as much as possible at home." What does that mean for the road map that we have ahead of us for the coming months? Does the cabinet then, if there is a new infection scare somewhere in a region, perhaps announce some more stringent measures for that particular region, without calling into question immediately for the whole of the Netherlands the freedoms that we are now getting back a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u164	I say it carefully: that is conceivable. But I say it carefully. We certainly do not rule that out, but of course it depends very much on the situation. You can't say it loudly, but it's absolutely conceivable that will happen. Let's hope we don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u165	I think it is very good to create that clarity at the front: it may be that we are going to intervene specifically in the regions if it is necessary, if the spread of the corona virus does not stop sufficiently there, and that we are also going to keep looking at how we can try to provide as much space and freedom as possible with 1.5 metres or with other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u166	You saw, of course, in early March, if you look back on it now, that the carnival was in the South and that holidaymakers came back from all over the Netherlands who had gone skiing in Italy and Austria. This made sense for us to move quickly to national level from Brabant at the beginning. That is why I say: it is conceivable, but it also depends at that time on the risk that it will break out further in the rest of the Netherlands. But it's very conceivable. It really depends on the circumstances that then arise. I think that's the honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u167	I cannot escape the impression that the Prime Minister is riding back on what he presented yesterday. I believe that 7 million people have been watching and we have all heard some ifs and buts from the Prime Minister, but the message was: here is my roadmap. This is going to happen next week, it's going to happen June 1, it's going to happen June 15, it's going to happen in August and some things will have to wait until September. And now I hear him keep a completely different story. It's the story of "yes..." after all. I think I've heard him say three times "maybe we should turn the hairdressers back," "maybe restaurants won't open." You are riding your bike back compared to yesterday and my first question to you is: what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u168	I always find it so grotesque when politicians start quoting themselves, but, yeah, now that I get the chance, I'm gonna do it. Rutte in his press conference: "We will take the next step on 1 June, if that is possible." Rutte: "We take the next step on July 1, if that's possible." That refers back to my speech yesterday that there is a profit warning, a balance bar. We would not raise these expectations if we did not think we could. Right now, the estimate is that it's possible. But there's always a delay in the spread of the virus. If something weird were to happen in society now, which would suddenly show that the number of infections is rising, R suddenly gets up, because something happens or because it becomes more crowded on the street... That does not have to be a disaster, but if people do not follow the advice of the 1.5 metres, if they do not follow the advice 'avoid crowded' and as a result suddenly there are more infections, then Mr Wilders would agree with me that it would be unwise to open the terraces on 1 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u169	Indeed, he said a few times last night, in a subtlety, that 7 million people have heard 'if that is possible'. But now you're going a lot further. You're going three steps back. You say "maybe the terraces should be closed again. Maybe we should reverse the hairdressers. Maybe the restaurants won't open." Your words, Mr. Prime Minister, have meaning. You gave the signal to the Netherlands yesterday: if you are no longer sick next week, you don't have to stay home anymore. And catering, you can re-open it with a small subtitle "if you can." The terraces can also be opened again. That's how you kept a whole story. We've seen all the effects today. We have seen that the day after Prime Minister Rutte's speech a train on the way to Amsterdam was emptied by the police because it was too full. The signal wasn't "if possible"; the signal is "we're gonna do it." Companies have now received the signal that the terraces can open, that the driving instructors can get back to work and that the hairdressers open. Your signal today is a completely different signal. You're going three steps back. I ask you again why. What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u170	I do not agree with Mr Wilders. Mrs. Van Brenk asked me, if the numbers are getting worse, what would you have to do? We don't expect that to happen, otherwise we wouldn't have held the press conference yesterday as we did, but suppose that happens and we made mistakes in the assessment; what can you do? There is no reason at the moment to think that we have made mistakes in the assessment, quite the contrary. The figures still seem to be developing favourably. But if that happens, then you can postpone one step. And if it gets much worse, then you could also decide to tighten up measures again. That's theoretical, because we're not expecting that right now. That's one. Yesterday I spoke in the speech about the balance bar and the profit warning. I also said "if possible." Right now, we're also expecting it to be possible. Of course, we're not gonna hold a press conference like we already think we can't. So I can fully reassure Mr Rutte, eh, Mr Wilders there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u171	Thank you, Mr. Wilders, uh, Mr. Rutte. But yesterday, the Prime Minister showed such a whole map, you know, a sort of organogram with above that 11 May, 1 June, 15 June. We saw that in the picture, that also went right around on the social media and that was on national government.nl/corona. There wasn't an asterisk with "if possible." Once again, you said that, but the signal to the Netherlands was: we are opening again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u172	I did say it, didn't I? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u173	Yeah, but it's not on that note. You said it in a subtlety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u174	Yeah, well! Yeah, it's really there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u175	In a tiny little star.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u176	Well, not very small. There is a great deal to it: "the relaxation of measures can only be achieved if the corona virus remains under control."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u177	Right, and for the rest, it's a state of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u178	It's on there. Yeah, well, you should read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u179	...with all the data that opens up. Your signal was: The Netherlands is opening. And now you're kicking the brakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u180	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u181	You're riding your bike again. And that's not just because you, I think, are shocked. That train scared you. You're shocked by what Dutch people do. But I'm telling you, companies are now assuming that if no crazy things happen, this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u182	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u183	It would be a great disappointment if you would come back to that now. I have another question. It may be that the figures are rising again and that is why you are not opening up the Netherlands much more. Is it true that it could also be that you will not open up the Netherlands if, for example, it would be disappointing and we cannot test enough in June or July? Suppose it's disappointing and we don't have enough material until August 1st to test anyone who has complaints. Is it also dependent on whether you open the Netherlands further or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u184	We expect us to be able to test everyone in June as early as 1 June, but for the sake of caution we say 'in June'. We do two things in parallel in that transition phase. You give space to society step by step and at the same time anchor what you have achieved in the outbreak phase. That's what tests are for. That might have an effect on the 1 September step, because then you will of course do a lot of things again. It's possible that that will have an effect on that step, if it really wouldn't work with that test, but we don't have that expectation. But the steps of 1 June and 1 July are not conditional on this. The second is that Mr Wilders is sincere, at least that is not meant to be, hear something here in my words that would differ from yesterday. I said yesterday, fortunately, it is also on the top of the list 'if it is possible to keep the virus under control, then we are going to do this'. We now have an opinion on 11 May. We don't have any advice on June 1st. We would not, of course, make that roadmap if we thought that this was very unlikely. Everything points out that this can be done, and I also understand that companies are counting on it. But, dear people, Mr. Wilders, we don't quite control that virus with each other. Crazy things can happen. That is why I said yesterday 'there is always a profit warning', 'there is always the fitting of the balance bar' and 'if possible'. But again, we wouldn't have said it if we thought we couldn't now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u185	I like to hear what other people think of it when you compare last night's press conference to now. Last night was the line "we're gonna open," granted, under conditions, and now the line is that it may not go through. You have really said it about 35 times today; go for once if you are the President of the European Parliament. I was surprised to hear you say that we did not decide that the cafés would open at all. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's a completely different story than yesterday, a completely different story. Apart from the strategy, the Netherlands needs to know what is going on. The Netherlands has the right to know where it is going and not a running Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u186	Well, that's pretty boud. Look. What the Netherlands needs is what we said on 11 May. That's that hairdressers et cetera open and primary schools et cetera. That's all gonna happen. Furthermore, based on what we now see from how the virus develops, we have the confidence that the roadmap of 1 June, 15 June, 1 July and 1 September can all be achieved. But by step we will ask for advice and see if we can actually do it. At the moment, there is no reason to believe that it is not possible. But when parties who are a little more cautious are asked the question "boys, we know for sure; shouldn't you take a little more time?" I'll give you two answers. One. We are actually doing so over the next three weeks, because the 11 May step has little effect on the spread of the virus, the experts say. Two. We are once again being advised, now also in substance, on that step of 1 June. That's really consistent, I think, with last night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u187	I want to continue on this. We do give a positive picture to people. It's not for nothing that people are going to catch that train to Amsterdam. Restaurants are preparing to open up again. They have to, and they're preparing. I am curious whether any other advice has been obtained, including from police, boas and behavioral experts, about what happens when we tell people that it is not possible. We expect that there will indeed be people who say: well, sorry, first it is allowed and then it is not allowed; what is it? I wonder if there are others besides the OMT opinion, which is very important. Police and boas might have to work even harder to get that done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u188	Yeah, it makes sense. By the way, first of all, I would like to say something about public transport. I spoke about this in detail yesterday. If people were to think today "Oh, Rutte lets the weather: I didn't say that. On the contrary. I have said that public transport still has a very limited capacity. The normal timetable is back on June 1st. Then we have 40% of the capacity in the trains, buses, subways and trams, because a lot of seats are removed to create that distance. In addition, the mouth cap is required et cetera. So that's just for necessary travel. These are, of course, the people in the crisis professions, in the vital sectors, in particular at the moment. That's why we're gonna tell kids right away, when, hopefully, high schools will open up again: boys, you're really gonna ride a bike, even in the rain. We're going back to the fifties in that respect. Not by bus and tram if you're healthy and so on. We say to offices: work at home as much as possible. That could change at some point. This advice is now requested from Mrs Hamer's club and from the planning agencies, as I outlined in the letter. This is now being asked for advice on how to organise this distributed work. All this must be settled before you can say: "work at home as much as possible" becomes "work at home and work at the office in a kind of mix." If today all kinds of people think "Oh, Rutte lets me get on the train"... Well no, not at all. Only if it's really vital. And if you do, you'll be taken out. That's what happened today. You're at risk. Then to those boas. Those are represented through the crisis organisation, the enforcers. They are therefore fully embedded in the decision-making process of the cabinet. The same applies to the Security Council, which is held every Monday between Ferd Grapperhaus, the Minister of Justice and Security, the NCTV and the mayors, because they are the competent authority here. Co-operation between the police and the boas is based on good agreements, all made at local level. So in that respect, the whole input is present. It's not like we're trying to think everything through psychologically every step of the way. I can't. I would also like to say something to society, including the viewers. "Rutte said the terraces are opening." That's what Wilders says. Well, no. We think that's possible. We're gonna let them give us some advice. "Rutte said I'm allowed on the tram." No, not at all. You stay out unless you have to. That is ultimately a responsibility of people. We're all doing this together, and that's actually going pretty well so far, isn't it? Of course, it's not for nothing that we got that virus under control at that outbreak stage. We've all done that, without having put police officers at every front door, as in some other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u189	We all note that people crave more freedom. So at the time of a press conference, people are starting to think that they can take that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u190	Yeah, that's stupid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u191	Yeah, you should. The Prime Minister emphasizes it well here in the debate, but try to repeat it. This is particularly true of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u192	Sure, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u193	Because apparently we are not doing that enough. At least today we see that this is not the case. So I'm gonna make an urgent appeal to do so, because otherwise you might not be able to open in three weeks, because we're already experiencing problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u194	Yeah, once, so we should keep doing that. Then there are a few more specific questions that I can answer fairly quickly, Mr President. Protocols are important to be ready, if anything can be opened. It is not that we are going to determine whether they have a legal status, but it is of course very helpful when they are there. At the gyms and gyms there is real concern at the moment, because it is still too unclear about the transfer risks in a gym, also because of sweating and so on. The jargon refers to "transmission risks." And, of course, it is not entirely clear at the moment about the spread when people are infected, but have no complaints. That's two big uncertainties. That is why we have put the gyms and gyms on 1 September for the time being. At the same time, however, it is also true that this sector of gyms has a protocol in place that takes account of all the rules of the game. We are now looking at this industry, and also with the RIVM, when we expect more clarity about this, and how we can check the fitness start up again. For the time being, therefore, this will remain on 1 September, but there is consultation with this sector to see if it could be done sooner under conditions, perhaps on the basis of customisation. But I don't want to raise expectations right now, so for the time being this will just stand on 1 September. Again, there's some real concern around those gyms. We also want to see what other countries in Europe are doing. There are rumors that in some Länder of Germany gyms are opening up. That would also give us an opportunity to see what that does with the spread. So that's what we all want to consider. Perhaps it is a good thing, Mr President, that I now turn to all the questions on this subject. I have until noon tonight, and after that, by the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u195	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u196	...but otherwise I'm gonna lose it to Mr. De Jonge who talks the longest. It has been asked: why do gyms only open September 1st and pools as early as May 11th? Experts say that chlorine inhibits the spread of the virus and that therefore the risk of spreading the virus in indoor swimming is much smaller than in other indoor sports. Then there was the question about the catering industry. Now we have said: 1 June. That's gonna be really exciting for a while. And in advance, I say, if it's possible. On the basis of the advice, we must be able to say: yes, we are going to take that step. That is, of course, the pre-condition, and that is what Mr Dijkhoff said. But if it's possible, what are the possibilities of doing something at that Whitsuntide weekend? That's how I interpreted his question. I'm still very excited about this. I can tell a whole story about this, and then Mr Dijkhoff and others will ask me. But I can tell you what you could land on right away. That is that we will leave the date for the time being on 1 June. But perhaps we should talk to this sector for a moment, because there are a few things going on. That discussion also took place yesterday morning, between Minister Ferd Grapperhaus, Secretary of State Mona Keijzer and Royal Horeca Netherlands, to inform them in advance of what we would do. We need to continue that conversation soon. Ferd Grapperhaus is happy to do so, and undoubtedly Mona Keijzer. In addition, we need to do a few things at the same time. First of all: there must of course be practice, to see how that goes in general with outdoor terraces and inside with that rule of 30 people. Secondly, how would you deal with the pressure of Pentecost if you were open before Pentecost? Because Pentecost is on Sundays and Mondays, so you're actually talking about opening on Saturdays. Could you open Sunday morning? From there you might say: we open on Saturdays or Sundays, so 30 or 31 May, or we don't even open on 2 June. Well, that's possible, isn't it? This includes a theme that I am still a little worried about, namely the brown bars. They're in here, too. You can't walk into the pub right after June 1st and if you can, and say, "I'm gonna stand at the bar and I'm gonna grab a beer." You can only go to the brown bar by appointment. Mr Dijkhoff and I used to talk once a week in a brown bar and then we would hang there at the bar. But from now on, we're gonna have to call the pub and ask, can we sit at your table tomorrow night at 7:00? It can also be at the bar, provided at 1.5 meters distance. But we can't just walk in here anymore. That will be quite an exciting one in enforcement and that is also part of that conversation with Koninklijke Horeca Nederland and others in the sector. How do you make sure it stays manageable in those brown bars? And what about the pressure on public transport? We're gonna take all these things with us. So my commitment is that Ferd Grapperhaus and Mona Keijzer are having that conversation. Then we'll see what comes out of it. I'll let you know. Then it might be wise to go to 2 June instead of 1 June, but I know that is not the wish. The wish would be right to go before Pentecost. But again, after there's advice that it can be done. And maybe to finish it: the municipalities. Municipalities can do a lot to accommodate the catering industry. They can also provide extra space for terraces. We saw that in Lithuania, in Vilnius. That can have an advantage, because it gives you more spread of people across the city. So it is conceivable that it has advantages, but in a physical sense that space must of course be real. In addition to that, the municipalities also look at the walking routes. I have talked more often about the alleys and the small streets so that there are no problems. In that sense, of course, this is a local political balance. But I call on everyone to do so yesterday in the press conference to, if there is such a possibility, dimension the terraces a little more. This can have an advantage, provided that physical movement and public space allow it. Then I have all the questions about mouth caps, but I'm gonna do them separately. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Haga asked if you should send on other matters instead of 30. I wouldn't want to do that, because it's almost impossible to maintain if you're also going to look at the ventilation and the square meters. I would really advise against that at this stage. We need to keep it a little clear. Those 30, that's also the 30 of the funerals, marriages and churches. Hopefully they can go to 100 a month later. But if you go in there again specializing to whether there is a ventilation system or number of square meters, then it is impossible to maintain. Then we saddle the congregations with something impossible. It's about the catering business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u197	I had Mr Krol, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u198	We just heard the Prime Minister call it swimming. It's less dangerous because of the chlorine water. But there is one group that is not so much taken into account and that is the group that swims therapeutically. This happens in extra heated bathing water. That happens with a movable bottom. Those people really need it for their recovery or because they can't swim in another way. They do swim in slightly larger groups, because otherwise the rental price cannot be charged. Would the Prime Minister and the experts like to take a specific look at this once again? Not now, but it's very important to that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u199	I don't. I'll write down the question. You know, there's gonna be a thousand questions out of here. That's what I said at the press conference yesterday. Mr. De Jonge is picking this up. If they are ordinary pools, it is Martin van Rijn, but these are special pools. These are moving pools. That's, as you know, Hugo de Jonge's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u200	Thank you for the commitment to consider 1 June wider as the Whitsun weekend and whether it is wise or not. The weather is, of course, the most important factor, because if the weather gets bad, it is a hypothetical discussion. The main thing is that, when the weather gets good, we do not try to occupy the terrace with all of us in one day. Also thank you for the support to decorate your parking space for terrace space, if that is justified. Now I got a message from an alderman. I won't mention any other names. He said: I have had a meeting and my mayor is putting back that it is now interpreted in the security region so that on terraces, with the 1.5 meters, only one person can sit at a table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u201	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u202	You can see that as between any human being at a table. So it's good to clear that up. Can I have a table with my family? Can I join others, not being members of my family, at a table as well? And is it between the tables 1.5 meters or between each individual at the same table?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u203	Between every individual, between people. You want to keep a foot and a half between all people, even inside. That's the condition. You can't violate the five-foot radius. Outside there is also no triage on which complaints someone has et cetera. It'll happen inside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u204	Let me ask you a question, then, to think again. If the members of a family, who are allowed to cuddle on the couch at home, then sit on a terrace at 1.5 meters, with one person per table, it becomes complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u205	I'm afraid this is inevitable. That can't be maintained. How do you ever find out? Guys, you gotta say, can you show me your family passport? I don't think that's possible. I'm afraid you'll have to text me back that this doesn't look good, but perhaps the mayor and the security region...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u206	I think this should just be recorded in order to be able to think about this. We can definitely take it off here, but these are going to be really big tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u207	Yes. Anyway, let's check it out. As for the restaurant owner: on that terrace are all those chairs at 1.5 meters and then suddenly they are put together "because we are a family." How are you gonna maintain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u208	I understand that, but the opposite is of course that a family with children can no longer go to a terrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u209	Yeah, but then they'll all just sit at five feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u210	For those who have children: success! I'll take the duct tape.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u211	I have such a feeling... Look, you guys are really small. That terrace owner is really not gonna say to those little kids that... He'll assume you're the father. But it doesn't seem to me to maintain if you would say in general terms: a father and mother with two adult children living at home should just prove that they are a family. I have such a feeling that this will be resolved in practice. I don't know if we can really do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u212	I hope so too, but let us take that into account in the discussions that are already going to take place about the Whitsuntide weekend: how should this take shape physically and practically?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u213	Will do. I ask sg Huijts to note this in the order at Grapperhaus and Keijzer for the conversation with the catering industry. Yeah, let's get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u214	Sure. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u215	Maybe I can place another order...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u216	No! Haha!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u217	... within the framework of what the Prime Minister is using as a language here. I find it difficult for the Prime Minister to say very firmly: yes, even when it comes to future perspectives for, for example, divine services, that question can also play at concerts, it is pleasant to maintain the numbers of 30 and 100, because then you know where you stand. But it is a far-reaching restriction of fundamental rights if, for example, you have a municipality of 2,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u218	Yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u219	At department stores, we don't say, "You know what we do? In all shops, small and large, five people are allowed in. That's it." I understand that it's very easy and very clear, but I still don't understand the following. Indeed, if you refer this to the related restriction of fundamental rights, I do not understand why you do not think a little more about questions such as "what area are we talking about in the longer term?', "What is the degree of containment?" and more of those kind of considerations. Wouldn't that be something to think about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u220	No, I don't think that's a good idea. If you look at the damage that church services have done to the spread of the virus, I would be very careful about this. The reason is of course that these are places where many people are together in a closed room, where people sing. Or think about a football stadium. That is certainly not right, because these events are subject to authorisation and are subject to reporting. This does not, of course, happen in churches because of the Constitution. But my appeal to the churches would be, also with the 30 and also with the 100, to be very reluctant because they are really taking risks. If I were a church, I'd call RIVM about that and ask what's wise. And the loud singing? Guys, that's a real risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u221	I really think it's a stark contrast. I'm really okay with that singing thing being made serious. I asked at the briefing. There it was said: yes, they are suggestions. The Prime Minister is talking about damage from divine services. Yes, these concrete examples were at a stage where the measures were not yet in place. Is there any evidence of any damage to funeral services that have been held so far? I don't know. With masks we hear in detail the scientific insights, but here it is a bit of "yes, I understand that." And on that basis, there are very strong restrictions. Then come up with really concrete, substantiated...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u222	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u223	Yes! Ask a RIVM for example how that is done and what it takes. Now it's a bit of "with big steps quickly at home." This does not do justice to the importance of divine services, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u224	It is inevitable at this stage that it is "with great steps quickly at home," because you are talking here about trying to redesign our entire society for the period when there is no vaccine. And then you're gonna be special. But specifically for the 30 and hopefully for the 100, starting July 1... In churches that are dimensioned on 2,000 churchgoers, you can visit on the basis of the 1.5 meters with hundreds of people. There is also the fact that, if you have more than 100 of them, of course, they all involve risks. That is what we always consider, for example: how many people are moving? You have an entrance that everyone has to go through. At 30 or 100 more and more people must enter through the same entrance of the church, from the place where a marriage takes place, from the crematorium or from the theatre. Those are all things you have to consider, too. I was asked yesterday: if Van der Valk has three halls, can they put 30 covers in each room? No, we're not gonna do that now, because that Van der Valk has one entrance, which then has 90 people to go through instead of 30. So let's just be sensible with each other. What we are doing now is exciting, but we think it can be done, otherwise we would not have put it in the roadmap, as I said to Mr Wilders. We will undoubtedly be talking about many specialities. If at some point it turns out that the risks are limited, then of course you can always see how to arrange more things. That's what I said yesterday at the press conference. I'm not going to make any promises about that right now, really zero. I think it's too exciting for that. But I will admit that we are looking at how things are going in practice and we are not going to hold on to anything unreasonable. I agree with Van der Staaij. But not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u225	But I'm not asking until tomorrow; I'm talking about the look-through we're working on right now. Take the example of the department stores, the shops. There's a certain differentiation there. My question is just to think about it in other places. These may indeed be divine services, but the same may apply to restaurants. Also think about the perspective related to things like surface.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u226	Affirmative. Affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u227	My question is actually a bit about the same theme. The Prime Minister's argument is that enforcement is a problem, but I note great differences. You can only come to someone's house with the three of you, but it does matter if you have a house of 30 m or 200 m. You're gonna get 30s in a bar when you take the precautions, but if you have a 2,000 m gym, you're screwed right now. So I think it is worth the risk of maintaining this small, intelligent step and normalizing it on square meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u228	Well, no, because there's also the point of the front door and the hustle and bustle. No, we're not gonna do that. Anyway, I hear it. We don't agree. I have just said about these gyms: we are putting that on 1 September for the time being, because there are really a number of concerns about these specific circumstances. Yesterday, I believe in the programme of Beau van Erven Dorens, it was claimed that gyms in Germany will open. So I said this morning: check that, or perhaps at state level; can we learn lessons from that? We're also gonna talk to the gyms. So we are open to all these things, but that is more about whether you could bring forward the date of 1 September. What Mr Van Haga is asking is not about those gyms. He asks on all these other things: can you send on other things than the 30? That is really not enforceable at this stage. Everything is also aimed at that after 1 September you could have a bit of normality again, except of course for the licensed and obliged events. But really, I have to take the security regions into account, too, and the police. It all has to be a bit executable. And from the health care point of view, you really need to make sure that it's all manageable at the front door.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u229	I am talking, for example, about gyms. It's unclear to me why you could all line up for the Ikea, but not in a decently organized way at a 2,000 m gym. I think we should think about that. I understand the Prime Minister's saying no, but I'd still like to give him some time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u230	No, see, what I would prefer, and I think that is the best conclusion, is that we will stick to this for a while. First we just have to see if we can do it all by all the data. That's true anyway. And if it's possible, this is the rhythm. As far as the gyms are concerned, I have now made a promise that we will see if we can do it there sooner. That is really not the promise that we can do that, but the promise that we will look at it. Because this is not the point of the number of aerosol dispensers that is perhaps the misunderstanding I have with Van Haga, but the risk of health, because of the sweating and spreading of aerosol dispensers in such a gym. So that's what we want to take a look at. There are also indications that it might happen in Germany. Well, you can learn from that. You should all be open to that. But the 30 and the 100 I'm putting in place at the moment, because otherwise I think it's going to be a disaster in the execution. But of course, as I say to Mr Van Haga, when we are in practice engaged in constant consultation with the security regions. Then it may turn out that they say: it would be more convenient for us to... Or: isn't it unreasonable to steer at 30 and not on a surface? Or: this case has a big door; can we deviate from it locally? We're gonna look into that at the time, but I'm not gonna say anything about that right now. We're really holding on to this right now. So I note it as a wish, which I do not think is unreasonable but which cannot be accepted at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u231	Well, I guess I'll take that as a very positive one. The Prime Minister calls aerosols. Just now he wiped the point about the climateization and the ventilation of the table with the argument that it is not manageable, but it is of course technically excellent to realize that within the same type of climateization you perform as outside. You can build that, you can buy nice machines for that, you can test and measure that, and you can get certificates for that. I can imagine that a cultural institution, a gym or a pub would rather invest in a climateization system with a certificate that creates the same situation as outside. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is a reasonable option to consider for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u232	Sure, but we're trying to do something that's feasible right now. So it can't be right now. I will keep this away from the gyms for a moment, because that is not the question of ventilation or numbers, but of whether it can be done earlier than 1 September. That's a separate discussion. There is also a specific issue about a number of concerns about the spread of the virus in such an environment. We really need to take a good look at them. You don't want to keep such a sector unreasonably closed for a long time if you don't have to. It will therefore remain on 1 September for the time being. It might get sooner, but first we need to see how those conversations run. Mr Van Haga is right outside the gyms, of course, when he says that ventilation is also important. But I say: we have to do something that is manageable in all those security regions when all those cafes and restaurants etc. start up again. Then, of course, there comes a moment when you say in practice: "How does that work? Is this fair? Couldn't we just do it differently?" But that is really not the issue at the moment. If you make that part of the policy right now, you're gonna charge the security regions with an impossible job. So I get it, but this has to be a bit of a practice. Right now, I don't see any room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u233	Finally, Mr President. Does the Prime Minister at least agree with me that there is no problem with the maintenance of climate change because you can just measure it and get a certificate for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u234	But who's gonna do that? All these municipalities have to keep an eye on how things are going in a brown bar like where Dijkhoff and I used to be at the bar every week, back in Breda or wherever it was. Now we make an appointment at a table, but do we actually do so or will everyone still walk in later to stand at the bar? I also think that this more difficult part of the conversation should be conducted. That is why I added that to the conversation that Grapperhaus and Keijzer will have with the sector. That's a concern De Jonge and I have with our own package on June 1st: you don't want to make exceptions for the pub. How can you make an exception for a pub where there is no food compared to a pub where there is food? When does a restaurant become a pub? When is a bar a restaurant? There's a risk. That all needs to be monitored a little bit in a moment. If we are also going to ask our security regions to look at certificates for air circulation... How many cafés and restaurants do we have in the Netherlands? I can't do that, can I? There's no way to do that, not right now. But I'm gonna write it down as a non-reasonable request in case it runs at some point and you ask in practice: guys, can you be a little more practical? But not on June 1st and July 1st. I'm not gonna promise that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u235	First of all, thank you for the Prime Minister's commitment to see if the 1 September could be earlier for the gyms. It's not so much about sweating, it's about breathing and touching all the equipment. I would ask that not all gyms should be seen as one pot of water, because there are a lot of differences in this sector. Then over the front door, because for me it comes a bit like a surprise from the sky now: "maximum 30 people, where the front door is leading." A few weeks ago in another corona debate here, the Prime Minister added the one-and-a-half meter strategy of Eric Wiebes, the Minister for Economic Affairs. He said they'd already been on the flipchart drawing out how to do it in a good way. Is that front door policy and the 30th ceiling not only applicable to catering, but also to theatres and cinemas, of which the cabinet said earlier: if you do so with reservations and with a good placement, then you can do a lot more there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u236	Not on June 1st. On 1 June, all these sectors will be subject to 30. From July 1st we want to go to 100.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u237	But then I wonder what economic perspective you're offering to many of those sectors, because how can you open up a cinema or a theatre with a dozen rooms if you can only let a maximum of 30 people, including your staff, in there? A few weeks ago, the cabinet radiated that there is a lot possible when you work with reservations and with a good routing of visitors through such a business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u238	I'm feeling a little balkening. He sometimes said "I was in the opposition; it was a moment when I was really annoyed "one half of the Chamber wants us to go much faster and the other half wants us to slow down; so the cabinet will do about right." I'm getting that feeling here, too. We're trying to keep the ship in the middle a little bit. We're trying to carefully fill in the space that exists. If we start saying to cinemas again "more than 30"... Yes, boys, it's all getting more risky. Look out! Let's start on June 1st. If it turns out in practice that everything is going very well, then you can always look at it again. For the time being, however, there is no decision at all on 1 June. I keep our rhythm, our roadmap, so really stand for a while, and we just have to look at it in practice. Then over the masks. Very briefly. How do you prevent the mouth caps from being used for care? Well, that's what we're all gonna tell you. We're gonna say don't do it and don't touch it. And if it does, we're gonna find a way to maintain it. Handing out free mouth caps: we're not gonna do that. The masks needed for the O.V. can be made or bought by people themselves. We'll make all the information available. The expectation is not that these costs are really prohibitive. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the questions about the economy. If I can find it again; let's see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u239	Let's talk about the masks. I have made the point that it is really none of your business to make it compulsory in the contact professions such as the hairdresser. From hairdressers and hairdressers who, for example, work at a Cosmo or I know where to work, you cannot ask them to cut people who may have said to their boss: well, I have no complaints and neither do my wife at home. They must start working without adequate protective equipment. I believe it was the FNV who went over the hairdressers and hairdressers and rightly said: hairdressers are not guinea pigs. So I think it's really wise to protect those people. Again, we are already getting bins with mails, not only from hairdressers and hairdressers, but also from people with other contact professions. People are just afraid to get to work like this. This is particularly true if they do not have their own business, but are employed and fear that their boss will not accept that they do not want to do so without oral protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u240	It's just not the advice, and I find that advice convincing. Of course, politics decides what it does with this advice, but I find the advice convincing. The difference with public transport is that a conductor can't ask someone who comes in "what are your health problems?', While a hairdresser can ask in advance what the situation is and ask again when you come in. This, of course, means that the risks are very limited. We have a country which, I think, has so far been participating in 90% to 95% of the population, with all the agreements we are trying to make with each other to get that virus under control. So the cap in the hairdressing shop is unnecessary. It's not illegal. If a hairdresser says "put on a mouth cap," that's okay, of course. But the question is, what do you advise? And we don't recommend that. We don't advise against that either. What we are now saying is that it is compulsory in public transport because there you cannot ask that question, but not at the barber's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u241	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u242	Finally. I think I have more than one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u243	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u244	Sure. I think it's five more. But apart from that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u245	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u246	That much?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u247	Six. But apart from that, you can't leave it to those hairdressers and hairdressers to check whether or not those people are sick or have people at home who are or aren't sick? Even if you assume that people are in good faith: everyone can say something; they cannot control it. If it is a hairdresser or hairdresser who is self-employed and wants to take that risk, then I do not think it is useful, but I can imagine. But most hairdressers and hairdressers are employed. They have a boss and the boss says, "I'll ask if people are sick or not, and then you're gonna cut those people." Those people are right to be afraid of that. And what kind of trouble is it? And I'm not even talking about asymptomatic complaints and everything else that goes with them. What trouble is it to say that hairdressers simply have to wear a mask in that case, in order to protect the staff? That's what they want, at least the employees. That's for their protection and you have security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u248	I repeat the answer. I'm eight hairdressers capable of having a conversation like that, to be honest. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a few more questions about the economy. The first was about closing gaps in the first aid package and how to adapt that aid package for disadvantaged sectors. Fortunately, the emergency package offers relief for many entrepreneurs at the moment. That is also the general picture. However, it is also very clear that with such a large package, with such a large bazooka, you hit 80%, 90% of the problems, but still there remains a large residual category. That is why we are constantly working to spend a lot of time, of course, because that is also what needs to be done in order to refine it further. For example, discussions with the catering sector are ongoing on what is needed and possible in this exceptional situation. We're also looking at seasonal work. Of course, this has been solved for a piece where ornamental cultivation and potato potatoes are concerned, but that is not the case for all seasonal work, where I think of beach tents, recreation and so on. So there's another problem. Executableness is really incredibly complicated. I have great respect for the tens of thousands of people who work at the UWV, the RVO and the municipal social services and who are working day and night to manage this. In that respect, we are doing two things at the moment. Perhaps I might suggest that with the Wiebes, Koolmees and Hoekstra troika, I have already said that they are eager to talk a little more deeply about that emergency package 2.0 that is coming next, but also about how we will ensure that we also take the lessons and what we are doing at the moment to fill in the existing package. Then there was the specific question of whether we are prepared to consider how continuous fixed operating costs can be dealt with. I am, of course, familiar with this problem. The TOGS was a compensation for that, but of course it is not complete. Implementingly, it is really not feasible to treat fixed operating costs exactly as wage costs. He UWV has data on wages and so they can run the NOW but no body has of course usable figures on fixed operating costs. I see the point, so I say that we will see how we can take this aspect into account in the next package. Mr. Chairman. Those were the questions about the economy. Then I've got a spare stack.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u249	About the previous one, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u250	It is clear that the economic account of this crisis is going to be huge. Hundreds of thousands of people have already lost or feared their jobs. Wage increases are being pushed on the long track, we were able to read this week. Meanwhile, we are talking about billions of aid packages for companies, for example yesterday, about KLM, which is likely to receive billions. In the meantime, the planning is still going down the tax paid by large companies on their profits, which is going down even further, I should say, because it has already been substantially reduced in the past period. Does the Prime Minister agree that if we want to get through this crisis socially and fairly, then it is only natural that everyone gets their fair share but also everyone pays their fair share, and especially these big companies do not deserve to get additional tax advantages but simply pay taxes on their large profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u251	At KLM 35,000 people work and KLM is indirectly responsible for Schiphol, where 100,000 people work. These are 100,000 very good reasons and 35,000 very good reasons to look at how to prevent such a society with all kinds of effects on many other jobs in the Netherlands. That's not because we like the KLM so much or that we say "o, the blue pride," because I don't have that at all, but that's just pragmatic, because this is important for jobs, for people in the Netherlands. In relation to the crisis and after the crisis, with the last budget for you, Mr President, me and Mrs Marijnissen, the burden is now lower than before the crisis, but not for companies, which is still significantly higher than before the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u252	In my view, this was not specifically about KLM and everyone here is of the opinion that it was also discussed in detail in yesterday's debate that it is very important that we keep these jobs as much as possible. My question was this: if the Prime Minister also thinks that we should go through this crisis socially and fairly, is it still appropriate to further reduce the tax on profits for large companies? I don't think so. We got Ahold's figures this morning, to name but a few. That's one of those companies that really benefits from this crisis. I believe they're making a 48% profit this quarter. We are talking about EUR 650 million. I repeat my question: is it only natural that the cabinet at this time, when it is so very difficult for so many people and hundreds of thousands of people to lose their jobs or risk losing their jobs and wage increases go on the long term, is saying no more to reduce the tax on profits for these large companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u253	The burden on businesses, including the reduction of the tax on profits, is currently higher than before the crisis, as opposed to the burden on citizens. In the case of citizens, this has been turned into a tax advantage. Businesses really pay a lot more tax than before the crisis, even after the profit tax reduction, because all kinds of other burdens have gone up. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the national commemoration with a question from Mr Krol, which I would like to refer to as the residual category.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u254	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u255	Here too. We're spending billions now, and rightly so, but once that price has to be paid. The question that comes up is who's gonna pay for it. We want to avoid paying the bill mainly by citizens, as after the previous crisis, by people working in the public sector. We now want to ensure that the big companies, which are currently taking the most advantage of the money that goes there, are going to pay for it. We have already mentioned that it should be loans, but it can also be in the form of taxes. That's the beauty of a profit tax: you're going to pay it when you make a profit. This should certainly not be reduced and it should even be considered whether it should be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u256	I just answered. It's kind of demonizing companies. Isn't that where people work? It's jobs for a lot of people, and you want to make sure that they have lived well in this country? I'm not dealing with those companies. I'm not interested in these companies. I'm interested in jobs for people. Three out of four people in the Netherlands work in their own company, work independently or work in an existing company. So it is very important that these companies are there. These companies currently pay more taxes than before the crisis, as opposed to citizens, even after reducing the tax on profits. Everyone will notice, that is inevitable, that we are going through a very difficult phase. Mrs Marijnissen was right to say so. Unemployment is rising, that is terrible, and a lot of companies are in very big trouble. That too is terrible, because people work there and jobs are lost. That's why you're trying to do everything you can to minimize the damage. That's not gonna work; you can't stop it completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u257	That's why we're pumping billions into the economy. That is widely supported, including by us. We are in complete agreement with that. The question is not whether we should solve the liquidity problems of companies. The question we are asking is how can we ensure that if those companies start making profits again, they will pay their fair share. That is why it is logical not to reduce the tax on profits this autumn. That question is so relevant, because the bill is there and someone is going to pay. I want to prevent it from being paid by citizens at all costs and the cuts will end up with all those people who are now working in health care. Someone is going to pay that bill and I think that the big companies that we are right to support now are going to pay a fair tax share if they start making profits again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u258	You know what I'd like? That we are going through this crisis with as little damage as possible for people. Jobs are being lost. They're gonna lose a lot of jobs. And I want us to do everything we can to prevent that there are more than we need. And I wish that if we go through this crisis, we will do so in a way that will also give us a chance in the future that these jobs will return as much as possible. Then you have to watch exactly how you do that. I find it too easy to say that we are going to increase the burden further, while companies already have a much heavier burden than before the crisis. I don't know if that's the answer. I really don't know if that's wise right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u259	I think it would be wise for the Prime Minister not to say anything about this, because we don't know it yet. It is very strange for him to say that he is excluding us from cutting the tax on profits, because he does not know it now. I wanted to give him the chance to say: I'm thinking about it again; I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u260	I am not ruling anything out at the moment, nowhere, because we are in a very serious crisis. The question was, do you want to cancel the tax cut? Then I said: I find that reasoning a little easy, because you are dealing with companies that are important to be a job engine after the crisis. Those companies are faced with a heavier burden. That's my argument. Mr Asscher asks me another question, more generally: are you prepared to say that you are not ruling anything out? Absolutely. At the moment, there is no certainty as to how we are going to proceed in the Netherlands, except that, in my opinion, everyone here wants to do everything in their power to ensure that decent people in the country can keep their jobs as much as possible. That's what it's all about. I would like to say that this includes the fact that we have strong companies, because that is where these people work in many cases. I am still not ruling out anything, so the answer to Mr Asscher's question remains yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u261	That's much better. I heard Mrs Marijnissen's question exactly: we will have to pay that bill; so we want to look at the tax on profits of companies with which things are going very well. That is how Mr Klaver completed it. Why is that relevant and why should that be asked now? Because Minister Hoekstra said on behalf of the cabinet that he does not rule out cuts in the public sector. He opened that debate. As far as I am concerned, this is about saving jobs, but one thing must be clear. We are not going to say that the reduction in the tax on profits is sacred, and that all decent people who are now helping us through the crisis will soon be cut back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u262	And so I say with Hoekstra and Asscher: I don't rule anything out at all. You didn't expect that. Mr. Chairman. I'll join you at the national memorial. I think it is too early to look back at this and decide on it. We're still in the middle of the crisis. I get the question. I think it's a good idea to take a good look at that. I have to look at Mrs. Van Brenk. I was not looking at Mr Asscher, I was looking at Mr Krol, while I was looking at Mrs Van Brenk. Then there is the question of repatriation from Morocco. A second flight has now been completed. I am not going to say anything about this in public, because the chances of a third flight being successful will be reduced. I have already said something about solidarity between generations in the direction of Mr Segers. Actually, I agree with him. I can very well imagine that behavioral advice is tightened up and that you say: listen, if you have a vulnerable health or are a little older, then for example, if that discotheque in Amsterdam ever opens up again in that way, maybe it isn't very smart. The number of 70-plussers that went there was already very limited. If there's an 80-year-old who says, "I'm going to that discotheque," I don't want him to be refused at the front door. But he's taking a risk, and he needs to know that. I think that's the way you have to deal with that. This is not so much an age point as a risk group, or of people at greater risk. You may also have to advise people who have structural lung problems to avoid certain circumstances. What you don't want is to say: you stay home, we lock you up and we have a society here with purely fit, young people. I know a lot of young people who are usually mentally much older than those 70s. I often use Erica Terpstra as an example. She's a late 70s, but one of the youngest people in the room when she's around. So age doesn't say that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u263	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u264	No, I had two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u265	Is it okay to answer those questions first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u266	As far as I'm concerned, yes. I had a question here about the temporary measures COVID-19 by Mr Van der Staaij. The Minister of Justice informed the Chamber of this. I have all the information here again. I think this has also answered the questions about how we deal more structurally with the security of the emergency regulations. At the moment, we are still looking at what exactly should be in the law. This must also ensure the rule of law and the whole question of time limits. The aim is to put a proposal into circulation by the end of this month at the latest. Then there was a question about testing policy in slaughterhouses and breeding restrictions. It says here that it came from the Christian Union, but I think it was Mrs Van Esch. The NVWA follows the established government policy and guidelines of the RIVM in the test policy. The slaughterhouses are individually written about what is expected of them. If they do not comply with the commitments made, they will be called upon to do so. There is no directive on the basis of which NVWA employees are actively tested for corona. Of course, we hope that we can test everyone in the Netherlands for complaints as soon as possible. Then there are the breeding restrictions. The slaughterhouses have so far been able to operate on normal production. There is therefore no need for breeding restrictions now. Stables aren't getting full yet. In addition, we do not have any legal means of imposing mandatory production restrictions, as a crisis measure, but, again, such powers would not be necessary at the moment. Branch and producer organisations can of course advise their members to take production restrictions measures, provided that they are approved by the ACM. Mr President, I am through all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u267	First Mr Azarkan, then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u268	After a period of uncertainty about the return of Moroccan Dutch from Morocco there is finally a view on a number of flights. One plane has already landed, one is scheduled to land and perhaps another. I will give the Prime Minister every opportunity to do so in a sensible way in a diplomatic sense. My only question is: where can these people, who are very concerned, rightly obtain information? Is there a window for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u269	I will come back to that in second term. I'm guessing State Department, 24/7 Loket. I thought that's what it was called, but I'm gonna double-check it. May I take this opportunity to compliment the people at the repatriation club at the State Department? They work day and night to bring back thousands of people from all over the world. I'm incredibly proud of the work they're doing. Thank you for not asking me any further about the precise backgrounds. I'm gonna go check where they can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u270	Yes, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u271	By the way, I have read everything I knew about this, so if you have any questions, I will probably refer you to the next deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u272	Then I'm very curious. This afternoon we received a letter of fire from four trade unions about the unsafe working situation in slaughterhouses. They have really become fireplaces of corona: they do not work according to the guidelines and Corona has already been detected in several people. It's just really not going well there. The Party for Animals has indicated this several times. So far, the NVWA has not intervened and only a survey is sent. As far as we are concerned, that really cannot go on like this. I understand that the answer you have given is for now the answer you can give, but as far as we are concerned, that is not enough. It seemed that in your reply you also indicated that it was about the NVWA employees. Our specific questions were, however, about the staff in the slaughterhouses themselves. So I would like a little more clarity on this, because as far as we are concerned, things are really not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u273	Just a little longer. They are written about what is expected of them. If they do not comply with the agreements made, they will be called upon to do so. If necessary, action is taken against the companies. If we do not comply with the commitments made, then it is also possible to temporarily halt the slaughter process. I am told here that this has already happened on a number of occasions in practice. You say that this is not the case, but I read here in the answer that has been given to me expertly that this has already been done on a number of occasions in practice. That's all I know. My suggestion would be to discuss this with Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u274	I understand that, but the Animal Party has asked these questions to the Minister of LNV several times. We insist that the NVWA does not intervene, even though it is indicated that it goes wrong in several places. There can't be kept a distance of 1.5 meters, there are corona fireplaces and so the health of the employees goes wrong. You can see it not only in the Netherlands; in Germany a slaughter has been shut down and also in America it is going wrong. It is not possible at this place to keep a distance of 1.5 meters and it is also not possible to follow the RIVM guidelines in this way. So we say: take action now! Now look where it goes wrong and go to the slaughterhouses in a different way than is happening now. So far this has not happened or is not enough. So we stick to the question: what are we going to do about it? Those corona fires are already there and they will only develop if we do not restrict those slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u275	This is an area I'm obviously expert on, but not really. Again, this is supplied to me from LNV. It has been said that action can be taken against companies. It is also possible to stop the slaughter process if they do not comply with the commitments made. It says: this has already happened on a number of occasions in practice. Is it not a suggestion that we should discuss this with Mrs Schouten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u276	Even four unions this afternoon, in a letter of fire, indicate that things are going south. It is very clearly stated that this is not going well and that action needs to be taken. I would now like you to ask Mrs Schouten how we are going to deal with this acutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u277	This is the answer we get from her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u278	As far as we are concerned, that is really not enough at the moment. It is very clearly stated that it is not going well. The four unions' burn notice was sent for a reason this afternoon. It has to be arranged in a different way. So far we have not been able to keep these agreements. We want to re-apply the request. This cannot continue in this way, because it is a real risk to public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u279	I take note of that. I stand by the answer, because that is given to me with authority. I have no reason to doubt this answer. But I take note of this, of course. And in all the debates, the ministries follow what happens here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u280	Okay, thank you. Maybe it's okay to suspend for two minutes because there's a switch going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u281	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u282	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to put together the questions about testing and the source and contact research. That's block one. The questions about nursing homes and other vulnerable groups are in block two. And then I put a few more questions in a block of varia. I would therefore like, for the sake of time, to try to put together a number of questions. Testing. This has, of course, been rightly put forward by everyone as one of the most important themes for this period and the coming period. We're coming out of the outbreak phase and we're in the transition phase to prepare for the control phase, which we probably have to endure for a very long time, namely until the vaccine arrives. In that control phase you want to be as close to the ball as possible and you want to be able to kick out the virus as soon as it starts to flare up somewhere else. That's what I said yesterday, and that's how I see it. That means you have to be on top of it in terms of testing. That's what we've been expanding for a couple of weeks with a new group over and over again. More and more target groups have been added. Since yesterday, staff in education and childcare have been involved. Next week the contact professions start and so they are also part of the target group for the test policy. As of May 18th we would like to be able to add the carers, and the police, the boas, the military police and the O.V. employees. That's how we keep trying to connect new groups. We have talked about this more often about the test capacity. What always stays exciting is whether or not you're getting enough of that test capacity. But that too seems to be more secure now. More security of supply arrangements have been made to make full use of the full test capacity. The greatest dependence currently on the test capacity side is to dissipate sample streams, so that you can also use the larger labs more easily if the capacity is fully exploited in the labs near or in the region. At the moment there is an IT dependency when decomposing sample streams. A piece of IT is currently being developed. We know that there is the greatest dependence and vulnerability in the question of whether we will succeed. That was a reason for me to say: I would very much like to go to the stage on 1 June to test everyone, but I am taking a swing at the arm. The objective is 1 June, and at least I want it to be settled in June. It is being worked continuously to ensure that we have that in place as soon as possible. And that is in June, and I hope that it will be possible by 1 June. Then when you test, it's about the assessment of how much you need to be able to test one day. That assessment wasn't made that easy at all. You have to be able to estimate how many airway complaints there are at some point in a month. This depends on a lot of things, but also on the extent to which people adhere to the behavioral advice. It's not that easy for a virus like that to jump over. This applies not only to this virus, but also to other viruses. It's not so easy to jump over the moment everyone sticks to the 1.5 meter and everyone who has complaints stays at home. All these behavioral measures that we have taken together, therefore, make the number of respiratory complaints likely to be much lower than normal in any season. We know that there is always a seasonal effect, so when the "r" comes back in the month, the number of complaints increases again. As we now estimate it, which we do not do ourselves, but have asked RIVM, the RIVM says: If you really want to take the step to test everyone, then you should be ready for at least 30,000 tests a day. That is a lot, but we think we can be ready for that in June. Mr Jetten was right to ask, also last time, how much that would be in the winter months. RIVM says it could reach 70,000, but this is surrounded by great uncertainty. What are all these corona measures and behavioral recommendations going to do with other respiratory complaints? We can't really predict that very well at the moment. The number could also be much lower. However, we have said that at any rate, at any time, you must be ready for the 70,000. So we are preparing for a capacity of 30,000 per June. We also want to be ready for a capacity of 70,000 in the winter months, but we still have a lot of time for that. That's the test side. Then I'll come to the source and contact side. There is a great deal to be asked about this, which is also right. You also want to be able to do source and contact research for everyone who is tested positive. The number of people tested positively, the percentage of the total number of people tested, has decreased very significantly in recent times. That's good news. Over the past few days, this has been around 8%. That's good news, because a low number of positive tests means that we're at quite a large test volume by now. This is also looked at internationally. We came from 29%, mind you, to now 8%. So that's going very well. If new groups are reconnected, and the overall size of the target group becomes even larger, the percentage of positive results is expected to be even lower. That too, of course, is an assessment. Those assessments are necessary for the GGD to properly assess how many people they will eventually have to be ready for that source and contact research. We had a debate on this with Asscher last time. As from 12 March, the directive has been amended, which says: "In that contact investigation, focus on the most vulnerable people and also expect some of the people themselves when it comes to passing on: I am an infected person, so make sure you stay home." When passing on the action advice, what is also expected of the people themselves. That was the source and contact research directive of 12 March. There is now a new directive on source and contact research, which has been in force since yesterday. This requires a more active role in the contact research of the GGD, in the sense of more active information of the people themselves, with an action advice that is also more intrusive than in the previous phase. Why is that? That has everything to do with the context. At that time, the advice of action actually applied to the whole country: stay home as much as possible. Of course, that doesn't apply to everyone anymore. That advice of action has been modified, which means that it makes sense again to say to the people who have been in contact with someone who has been infected: stay at home. Those who live in the house, in the family of those who are infected, are just the fourteen days of home quarantine. The contact investigation has therefore intensified since yesterday's amended directive, with a more intensive and instructive role for the GGD. The legal advice has become more stringent with the amended Source and Contact Research Directive. The capacity required for that source and contact research has tripled in recent weeks, out of the approximately 250 FTEs available in a normal situation for source and contact research, distributed among the 25 regions. In the meantime, they have used it threefold. However, this is partly temporary capacity, because it has been withdrawn from, for example, youth health care. Of course, you can't keep doing that endlessly, so in any case every GGD has to prepare for a much longer period, in which they need to do more intensive source and contact research for a larger group of people and for which they can't use the capacity that has now been temporarily pulled in. That actually means for each individual GGD just a rally plan. It has also been said that we are going to work together in this area. Those 25 GGDs are also making a joint up-and-coming plan. That's what I asked for, and I'll get that plan myself next week. We are calculating there at the moment, and there are, of course, a number of assumptions to be made. How many people will have respiratory complaints and therefore want to be tested? That's one assumption you have to make over the months. A second assumption you have to make is how much you expect to be tested positively. That's the second assumption you'll have to make. For an average source and contact study one now assumes about eight hours per positive-tested, infected person. But it could be that you have lost a little less time on it, at least for part of the group, if you could have it digitally supported. Hence the continuing need for apps. In short, all these things are connected. They've already scaled up heavily at the G.D.D. They're counting heavily on it right now and I'm getting the plan from the GGD myself next week, because we're obviously going to have to finance that surplus, because we can't do that from the regular budget. Mr. Chairman. I think I've had most of the questions about testing, source and contact research. I'm gonna take a very natural break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u283	You're building a silence so everyone can interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u284	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u285	Mr Asscher, and then Mr Klaver, and then Mrs Van Brenk, Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Van der Staaij. Yeah? Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u286	So next week there will be a plan for scaling up the GGDs that would have been ordered a few weeks ago. At least that was the impression I had in the previous debate. So that's not going well. My question is: next Monday, primary schools will open, and the daycare centers. Can the Minister now guarantee that there is sufficient capacity to carry out a good source and contact study of each positive test?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u287	Yes. I think it is a good thing to underline that the GDPR always adheres to the RIVM directive. The directive has been amended; it is now more intensive. He asks for a more intensive role of the GGD and also gives more intensive action advice to the person who is tested positively and the contacts of that positively tested person. But the GGD always has to follow the RIVM directive. From 12 March the directive was: focus on vulnerable people and ask the rest also some independence in informing their contacts. On top of that, however, a lot of GGD's have just continued to do the classic source and contact research, as they always did, so that's also ringing. That also explains that there has been a lot of scaling up, including in staff. But the question is, of course, correct: can RIVM also deliver on Monday what the directive says, namely "contact the person infected, check with the person he or she has been in contact with and make sure that you give yourself an urgent action advice by telephone to that person"? The answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u288	Two more questions, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u289	I don't think you can say that, because you don't know how many people are tested positive on Monday. Shall I rephrase the question? I welcome this answer, because that is a great concern for people who work in education. They don't want any outbreaks. I'd still like to test how far that capacity goes. How many of these contact tests can we get on Monday? How much can one handle? What does that capacity look like, if you just put it in numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u290	In numbers it was 250 fte's and now one stands at about 750 fte's. My question to the Health Service has been: can you achieve the directive as it currently stands, since the adaptation? Can you also make it happen for the groups that we engage as target groups? The answer to that question is yes. I have, of course, asked several times and the answer to that question is yes. Is that where we are ready for the larger scale-up by June? The answer to that question is "no, not yet." How soon would you be able to expand? You can quickly adjust flexible capacity and that is also what the GGD has shown in recent weeks. That is also what we stand for in the coming period. In fact, and that might be interesting: if I ask that question to the GGD, they say, "Yes, of course we can. We switch capacity more often than not. Of course we guarantee that." Only now you have some steps to take towards the future, with lots of uncertainties. How many respiratory complaints are there one day? RIVM now estimates that there are 30,000 in an average June month, but it could be a lot less. Could there be a lot more? That doesn't seem very likely. So it's an estimate at the top. In the winter months it can reach 70,000, but that is in a normal winter month. That is not in a winter month in which we all stay 1.5 meters away, stay home when we are sick and wash our hands very often. It is therefore very difficult to make all these assumptions with military precision. My question to the GGD and your legitimate question to me is about what we need to guarantee. Can the GGD ask what we ask of the GGD? The answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u291	And you have two more questions, Mr. Asscher; I was wrong. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u292	I still find the situation at the G.D.D.'s worrying. We've talked about this a lot. The question of capacity has been asked a great many times, especially when I compare it with the neighbouring countries. In Belgium, they have already decided in mid-March to recruit a lot. At that time, they made an extra 100 million. In Belgium, a smaller country than the Netherlands, they currently have 2,000 people ready for that source and contact research. The Minister is talking about June and the plan is due next week. I would like to say that the recruitment must start tomorrow! We don't know exactly how many people we need yet, but we need a lot of extra people to be clear. Why hasn't the recruitment started yet? The Chamber has called for this on several occasions. It still hasn't happened. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u293	The G.D.D.'s are busy recruiting. That's not the issue. The question is: can you come up with a plan where you can also estimate at national level how many people you really need when you give all people access to the test policy in its completeness? The answer to that question depends on a number of factors. There is the RIVM directive. What exactly does he ask for with the source and contact research? The answer also depends on the estimation of the number of people to test. What does that ask? The number of uncertainties in this assessment is therefore quite high. That doesn't stop any GGD from preparing for what's to come. That's what GGDs are for. But I did ask for that rally plan. I believe that this directive came into force yesterday, so I think it makes sense for people to say: we would like to wait for the instructions for RIVM source and contact research before we can complete our plan. That makes sense to me. I see that the GGDs are working together in that too, under the direction of the director of the GGD Friesland. They will gather in it and work together in it. The essence of the question I have to ask the GD's and which I think you have to ask me, is the question Asscher asked: is the GD ready for the assignment that awaits? For the assignment that awaits now, the GGD is indeed ready and for the assignment that will be waiting, before 1 June, the GGD will have to be ready soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u294	Two more questions. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u295	My final question on this point. We have constantly asked that question over the past few weeks. I actually think that in such a crisis, the order should be different. First, you have to make a plan where you say, "Let's see how much we need." That's tricky. What is the exact capacity? At your service, that must be done. My point is that this recruitment should have started earlier and should actually start immediately. I actually find it too easy and not good to say that this is a responsibility for those 25 different GDPDs. We need to deport that recruitment nationwide now. This is a responsibility where we need to launch a national campaign to ensure that as many people as possible register. Next, the execution is back to those 25 GGDs, but when it comes to recruitment it really has to start. We know we're gonna have to go to a lot more, to a few thousand people. If you're at 750 now and you're saying right now, with the arms over each other, "well, in June it's gonna work out to have so many people"... We have to recruit now. We just need to page people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u296	Yeah, and they're recruiting. The last few weeks have also been recruited. The question that needs to be asked to the GD is: Are you ready to do what is expected of you? If you first draw up a plan and then see what can be done, we would never have had the test policy that has now succeeded. This has been considerably extended compared to a month ago. The number of tests that have decreased per day in the past few weeks was 3 to 4 times higher than a month and a half ago. And we will expand it again in the near future. You can't, with all the uncertainties that arise, make a plan all the time and then take a step. That doesn't work in that order. What I have to do is make sure I can live up to what I'm saying. So we have, in fact, repeatedly engaged a group as a target group of testing policies at the time I thought: we can make this happen. You'll never have complete certainty in that. The dependencies in that whole test state are way too big for that, so you never have complete certainty. What you can do is do everything you can to increase that test capacity and then step by step extend the number of people you add to the target group for that test policy. And then you can make sure that the GGD can do what can be expected of the GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u297	I'd like to zoom in on the letter the minister sent. It also says: it is from June and the goal is 1 June, but there are still many dependencies. Let me hold that against the Outbreak Management Team letter. It says on page 3: it can only be done if there is sufficient test capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u298	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u299	What are these dependencies and can we now get that guarantee from this minister on 1 June?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u300	I have always been in exactly what I promised and what I promise, even in all previous debates, because I know that you will come back to it one day and say: had you not promised? I've always said about those tests that there are a lot of dependencies. We've turned on 50 labs by now. In these 50 laboratories, dozens of different devices are used. They all need different supplies of test materials, supplies that have become scarce throughout the world. They are now produced in very large quantities, of course, but the scarcity is not simply gone. This means that the security of supply of such supplies must be agreed with the manufacturers. You often can't make those appointments for a whole year ahead. You make it over and over again for a certain period, for one month, for two months, for three months. So you're trying to get more security of supply from all the stuff that's needed, all the fluids and all the plastics. That's a dependency you have. The second is that we need to be able to redirect sample streams to, for example, such a huge lab as Sanquin has. Why do you want to do that? Because you run into your maximum capacity of what can be done in that region in any region at any time, if a lot is tested there one day. Then you want it to be possible for such a sample stream to be redirected, without delay, and you want to make sure that the tubes are matched with the right person again. This requires an IT system and that IT system is under development. That's not gonna be done tomorrow. That is being implemented at the moment, but of course that is always exciting. You know what they say about IT and government. That's always a little exciting. In short, if I say to you 'yes, 1 June will succeed; I guarantee you', it might be that in a few weeks' time I have to say 'oops, things have gone wrong and so it doesn't work out'. I don't want to. That's why I'm saying we're doing everything we can to make sure we're ready for the 1st of June. The aim is to do so, but honesty requires saying that "in June" is a safer promise than 1 June. But the goal is on 1 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u301	Does this mean that what we now commit to before 1 June is moving forward if that full test capacity is not realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u302	I told you that I am aiming for 1 June, but that it must be real in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u303	No, the Minister misunderstands me. We make agreements with sectors about things opening up again on 1 June. Does that depend on whether we have the full test capacity or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u304	You're trying to do that in parallel as much as you can. Hence the data as we call it. But of course it doesn't come one day. It's not like that, but you're trying to do it in parallel as much as you can. That's why it's so parallel in the schematics. But it's not strictly parole or anything. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u305	One more question. Has it been considered to also look at GPs to test instead of just the GGD? Can general practitioners do that too? Is that also a source where people can go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u306	Yeah, you can. Patients usually go through general practitioners. Chronically ill, for example, usually go through general practitioners and the 70-plussers usually go through the general practitioners. So the primary target group, the vulnerable people who were already in the test directive at the very beginning, usually goes through the GP. In the appointments we made with the health care institutions, we say at least: make sure you get a doctor to triage you. It's necessary. You'll have to be litigated. A doctor needs to see if you have any symptoms, if it's true. If you're testing if you don't have any complaints, there's really no point in such a test. So you have to have complaints. In addition, if the test results are positive, they should also be given by a doctor. So that's why the triage is needed through a doctor. However, that may be a general practitioner, that may be an arbourt, that may be a GGD doctor. For example, it has been agreed with the health care institutions: if you do not have your own doctor, it can also be done via the GGD doctor. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u307	Last week we had a technical briefing. In that the GGD actually indicated that all the regular work had to be stopped because one can actually only be engaged in tests and with that source and contact research. We find that really worrying, because this is once again a care sector where we have to suspend regular work. And we think it would have been possible. If you had already started scaling up in early March, you might now have been faced with other choices and the regular work of the GGDs might have continued. So I think it's important to see how we can finally get that regular work of the GGD going. This testing and this contact investigation will take some time. If the GGD can handle that, it doesn't mean they can handle the regular work. In fact, I think that we should put forward the outline of a plan for this, because otherwise there will be very distressing care situations there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u308	I think that's some pretty tough words, but it's true that you just needed your people from youth health care for this. It's been a while. In all health care institutions, and also in the GGD: it was equally generous. So it makes sense that people from youth health care have been employed in this. This was part of the regular scaling-up that could be done in the short term. But Mrs Van Esch is absolutely right: you cannot do that for a long time, because that would mean that your youth health care would be on its ass. So you can't do that. But again, this is just the work of GGDs, isn't it? That is where people need to be provided with the people they need. They will therefore have to make sure that the regular people do the regular tasks again. And for the capacity needed for that source and contact research, enough people will have to be provided. Indeed, Mrs Van Esch is right to say that you will need these people for a long time, and probably even more so as winter progresses. It will therefore be necessary to provide sufficient staff to enable the regular tasks to be resumed. But that's very clear on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u309	I believe that. However, I do think that we should support the GGD in that, because we are asking a lot of them. During that technical briefing last week, the GGD indicated that the entire staff is now engaged in source and contact research and testing, which means that regular work cannot be carried out. That is not a sustainable situation. I therefore believe that we cannot say to the GGD: yes, but that is just your job and you should just do it. No, then we should also be able to say here: okay, we are going to fully support these GGDs, also when we can carry out the regular work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u310	Yes, and that is why I said: come up with that capacity plan. Then it was said at the GGD: then we need to know exactly what the capacity plan is based on. That is, for example, the directive which also determines how much time you have lost with a source and contact research. That is, of course, mainly contact research at this stage of the epidemic. But of course I asked for that capacity plan. It has been said that they must wait for that directive. That directive entered into force yesterday, and that means that we are told that this plan will be completed next week. And I think that's exactly the order of things. We must be able to comply with the directive: that is the essence. And you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u311	I have a practical point to make about recruiting volunteers to support the research on sources and contact. I heard from a parent: I could only be deployed if I could also come to a headquarters in the region three days a week with my laptop. That would be a shame, because that would mean that you're actually excluding a whole group of them. And why couldn't this volunteering also happen from home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u312	There's lots of things to do. I know that, on the basis of the draft plan with which we are now working, we are talking to all kinds of call centres, so that we can make a lot of mass at once. There are many initiatives that have offered their services. Also on that basis I really have a lot of fiduciary in that they are just going to make this happen. So it's a n = 1 story, so to speak, which I can't estimate. I don't know why this particular person doesn't come up with this particular GGD. I would indeed think that there is a need for manpower. But I also understand that the GGD says: let's do it a little plannedly, because we can do our job now, and if we want to be prepared for the future, we probably need so much mass that we have to do it a little organized. I know that people who have reported to extrahandenvoordezorg.nl, for example. have been deployed in the scaling up to the 750 in the past period. So from all angles and holes, people have come. Currently, for example, medical students contribute to the source and contact research. They can't go to college anyway, so they can help. That's what's gonna happen. There are therefore many voluntary initiatives at the moment. This often concerns people with affinity with care. But it is really up to the personnel policy of an individual GGD whether or not they want to give room for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u313	I can follow that reasoning, but, again, this was a signal. It is a pity if you, especially as an older person, want to follow the advice to stay home as much as possible, you have the idea that you could support a lot of useful work from home and that is then cut off because you have to spend a few days at a head office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u314	Yes, that too is a bit of a part of the personnel policy. If you want to be able to instruct a new team how to do the source and contact research, I also understand that that requirement is linked to it. But I know that the GDs are always eager to listen to this debate. So I'm sure they've heard this suggestion, too. Part of the contact research is of course very good to do from home, you would think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u315	I actually had the same question as Mr Van der Staaij, but a little wider. Mr Klaver mentioned that you need thousands of people in capacity. The capacity plan is therefore about significant additional scaling. There is a strong focus on the involvement of volunteers, but also on the contribution of other organisations. So that also comes back to next week's plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u316	Yeah, sure. Over the past week, a number of organisations have said: we have a lot of capacity; we are not using that capacity at the moment, so we would be happy to use our people for your source and contact research. That has been the offer from a number of angles in the direction of the GGD. The GGD has said: fine, thank you, we'd like to work on that, but we also assume that we need to set up a steady organization, probably until the moment there is a vaccine. You want source and contact research to be able to continue significantly. So if there's a call center that doesn't work right now and that's why it's offering its services right now, but that about packing it back to normal for a month, it's clumsy. Because then you'll work a lot of people in first and you won't have a lot to do about it in the longer term. In short, there is a lot of additional capacity, also volunteer capacity. The GGD says: yes, we are very happy to use it, but in such a way that it really helps us. I'd really like to give the GGDs some space to put that little puzzle on their own. I think that the plan will then come up with the bill for this in our direction. I'd like to be open to that, too, because I want it to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u317	I understand the need for a steady organisation, of course, but that capacity is also needed. A steady organisation with too little capacity is still very risky in the case of an outbreak. I also outlined the difference between an outbreak, let's say, above Dokkum in Noordoost-Friesland, versus the centre of Utrecht. The implications, if you have about travel movements and population size, are quite different. Is the capacity available in both cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u318	The answer is yes. Look at the phasing out of the crisis. We're from that outbreak phase, where it started to wink, especially in Brabant. There were at some point so incredibly many people infected. If you wanted to do source and contact research with every positive result, you'd need a lot of people. Of course, not everyone was tested at that time. So you didn't know where all those positive results were at the time. We must never end up in that situation again. We have then had the general behavior advice.Stay at home as much as possible and all the others, which you can now dream.But of course we are going to let go slowly but surely step by step. That is why it is necessary to be able to kick it out immediately where there is another fire, so that you never get into that situation of a huge spread. Try to imagine how it could happen again over the next few months. Well, a cafe for example, where things go wrong, where one does not stick to the 1.5 meters, has a very nice evening with too much drink and so on. You've got it all figured out. That's where it could happen. But since you test everyone with complaints, you expect it to remain a fairly local fire. That's the idea. The risk should be as low as possible. A much greater risk is if everyone goes on vacation again and a large number of people come back after the summer vacation. That's a much higher risk of re-introducing. So you need to be ready when it's necessary. That is why we say: in June, but no less than June 1, everyone is tested for complaints. Even 24 hours doesn't count anymore. So everyone tests for complaints, in one go, so that you put acceleration in there, too, so that you get there very quickly. That's the point. Mr. Chairman. I think I've had all the questions about testing and the source and contact research. I now come to the nursing homes and the protection of vulnerable groups. Of course, we have talked about the nursing homes more often, as have the visitation scheme. However much we all see the need for this visitation scheme, the sector and client organisations see that, of course, I have said before that I think it is one of the most painful measures we have had to take. It's been so incredibly profound in people's lives, and it still is. So yes, we need to unite the medically necessary and the human more. I also said yesterday that quality of life is certainly as important as time of life. That's what we need to reconcile. That's a search. You didn't just do that. We must be careful in this search, because of course everyone also has abdominal pain, knowing the numbers of nursing care. This means we'll start a trial next Monday. We are going to try carefully with a test at 25 locations: in each GGD region one. Those locations are designated by GGDs. In this test we will learn very well how that works in practice. A proposal has now been developed with Verenso, with client organisations, with ActiZ, the industry organisation, and with a number of professors. We have worked out a proposal that we think is really safe. A location itself must be free from contamination, for at least 14 days. Of course, we'll say that often in the coming period, and we'll have to put that check call in front: do you have any complaints, are you quite sure you're complaints-free? The mores really need to change. It's not easy to do what you've always planned to do, even though you have a cold, you have the flu or whatever, and yet you're going out with a few paracetamols. That's not the point. Just don't. If you have any complaints, you'll be properly checked in front. Then that visit is possible at 1.5 meters and also under supervision. That is what we are going to try for a number of weeks, also to see how that works out in practice, including with the different target groups in nursing care. Then we're going to see if we can give a larger, wider group the possibility of that customized visitation scheme. I'm not ruling out that this is still not all the locations in nursing care, but we have to take that next step. 'Cause for a long time to go on like this, you really can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u319	I see you, Mrs Marijnissen, but I would like to propose that everything related to the nursing homes be completed. Then you'll have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u320	I'm gonna finish the block. Fine. Mrs Van Brenk asks if the nursing homes close immediately in case there is an infection. I think she means to say that if this were to happen again at the time of the visit. It makes sense. The condition for the visitation scheme is that the location is free of contamination. As soon as that contamination comes back, it closes again. That makes sense to me. Well, I guess that's what we'll have to do at the time. Then the daily use of people with disabilities and people in the ggz. I think that is what Mr Asscher asked for. Today's spending may have been cut way too quickly. That happened after that scare, which we all had, of: oh dear, we're spreading hugely here; we can actually do this, because we deal with vulnerable people. I think there's a lot more variety by now. We also encourage this, for example by starting the conversation with V&VN: couldn't you offer a little more guidance to get the daily spending started again? Of course, we have that conversation with ActiZ as well. You also see more and more creativity on site: it may not be quite what you were used to, but it is still daily use. People can't spend very long without daily spending, because they didn't have it for nothing. In the beginning a little too much out of fear stopped immediately, but by now you can see that the creativity has fortunately risen again. That is also good, because then the daily spending can continue. Wherever we can, we offer that guidance. The same applies in the ggz. That was a question from Mrs Van Esch. She asked whether the directive of the ggz itself was being complied with and whether all the possibilities were being exploited, which are indeed contained in the directive. We do think, indeed, that I share that observation that there is something more possible than we are seeing at the moment. In the ggz, you actually see the same thing as with disability care and the daily use for the elderly: perhaps a little more closed out of fear than should be strictly taken into account. And that's what you actually see in society as a whole. The logic is that you always check with yourself in advance if you have any complaints. People who aren't so good at checking for themselves, others do. If you have any complaints, you should just stay home. Then you shouldn't come to the daily business. So if you're complaining, you stay at home, and then you keep that five feet on for the rest of your life. Well, a handsome virus that can jump over that. Well, that's kind of the basis of everything we're gonna have to get used to. So we're gonna have to reinvent ourselves a little bit: how do you do that? This is true of daily spending, but it is also true of pubs, and that is true of everything. And we're gonna have to keep doing that for a long time, which is until that vaccine gets here. It is therefore also true of the visitor scheme in disability care. Mr Asscher also asked for this. Look, with the visitor scheme in disability care, it's different from the one in nursing homes. There it has really been a guideline from the cabinet, which was also enshrined in the regulations, in the designation for the security regions. But that's not the case with disability care. In disability care, it is the sector itself that has set the directive for itself. That directive has the title, one could say: no, unless. What Boris van der Ham, the chairman of VGN, has said is that I want to focus more on the 'unless' than on the 'no', and I actually want to go to a 'yes, if'. I understand that, too. Some locations have been, again a bit scared, very strict. That is good in itself, for the safety against the virus, but if parents can't see their own child for a very long time, that's bad, you know. That's pretty bad. So you also notice more creativity and more courage, and more ratio perhaps. It is seen that with the general principles you stay at home with complaints, keep 1.5 meters and wash your hands until you weigh an us, that sort of thing actually comes a long way. And then there can often be more. It is therefore not a public directive that there should be no visit in disability care. It is the "no, unless" that one has designed oneself and that one is gradually converting to a "yes, if." Then the single elderly. Mr Van der Staaij asked about this. For people over 70, the advice was fairly strict, based on the OMT advice, to limit the visit to them: don't visit the elderly unnecessarily. But there has been more room for manoeuvre with the previous OMT advice not last Monday, but the Monday before. It has been said that some older people will only become more vulnerable if no one visits. They suffer more than they could potentially suffer from the virus, you might say. So with those vulnerable elderly people, if not having a visit makes them even more vulnerable, perhaps you should make it possible for them to visit again, of course again under the same agreements in force. That's a little crack from the door, which you might want to open even further. So we are going to put that question again to the OMT: could you not give older people a more generous advice at all, always respecting the general agreements of staying at home when you are sick and keeping a distance of 1.5 meters and so on? We are doing this because we have to do this for a very long time, namely until the vaccine arrives. In short, this transitional phase also includes opening the door a little further, because otherwise it is impossible to sustain, knowing that we will always have to protect vulnerable elderly people until the vaccine is there. Yes, Mr. Chairman, this is it in this little block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u321	All right, then I'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen and then Mr. Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u322	The nursing homes are locked and that leads to a lot of sad situations and a lot of loneliness. I just heard the Minister say that his expectation is that we will have to do it this way until the vaccine arrives. That's intensely sad when you realize that a lot of the people who live there are in the last part of their lives and are now facing intense loneliness. Doesn't the Minister see that it feels extra harsh and also very double for family members and carers who are not allowed to visit their family, father, mother, grandpa, grandma, while they see that caregivers who have to work there walk in unprotected? After all, the directive is still such that it is not intended to carry masks as a preventive measure, i.e. as a precautionary measure. So you are not allowed to visit your father, mother, grandfather or grandmother, but you do see all kinds of caregivers who, of course, come there to do their good work, walk in unprotected. This leads to many questions and also to fear, both among the caregivers who walk in unprotected and among the family members. Does the Minister agree with me that we need to ensure that protection is provided to health care providers, including preventive measures? And does he agree that we should respond to the call of nursing homes and trade unions? They say: if we want to look at some degree of relaxation of this visitation scheme in nursing homes, then that protection is very important. In fact, it might be a condition for us to be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u323	I would like to concentrate on the visitation arrangements, because Mr Van Rijn's protection is so important. Look, I'm not saying the visitation scheme as it currently exists should stay until the vaccine arrives. I don't think so. I am just saying that the visitation scheme was necessary during the last period of the outbreak phase in order to contain the number of new infections in the nursing homes, you might say. That worked, too. Since that visitation scheme, the number of new sites with an infection has decreased. The number of infections was then flattened, but that took a little longer. So the visitation scheme worked. Only, you can't keep it up for days. In the meantime, you really have to see it at the stage in which we are now, the number of infections, like the OMT estimates, is about 25,000. That's not hard math, of course, because no one walks with a sticker on their head with "I'm infected." This is derived from a number of parameters, but the estimate is that 25,000 infections are involved. With this you know that the number of infections in the total population is such that the risk of taking the virus inside when you visit is an acceptable risk, especially because you do so in conjunction with the agreement that you stay home when you have complaints. So you have to check that in advance: do you have complaints and should you have stayed home? This also applies to employees. They'll have to be tested immediately. The same goes for visitors. They'll be able to get tested right away. Then you also have to keep that 1.5 meters away. What I'm saying is, it's a nice virus that's gonna jump over that. Of course, it's exciting for nursing homes. So we're doing it one step at a time. We're gonna try it carefully. But I am not saying that the current regime must be maintained for a very long time. No, I am just saying that we need to relax the current regime step by step into a system that combines the human and the medically necessary much better. That's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u324	However, Mr President, the Minister is not answering my question. It was precisely about the care staff and about how difficult, and even how harsh, it is for family members who cannot visit grandpa or grandma or father or mother, but at the same time see that caregivers walk in there unprotected, with all the risks involved. Of course, those caregivers aren't able to keep a foot and a half away. I can't do that if you work in an average nursing home. That's what my question is about. Doesn't the Minister agree that, while those nursing homes are still locked and people can't visit their grandmother or grandmother, the least we can do is ensure that we minimise the risks? That also means that we have to protect those caregivers, who walk in and out, who make sense, but they also do groceries in the supermarket and also have to protect a family at home. It also protects the elderly in the nursing home better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u325	This is about the use of personal protective equipment, and Mr Van Rijn will give an answer in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u326	Okay. Then there is Mr Segers and then there is Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u327	I have seen the characterization of the Minister for the elaboration of the visitation scheme at, for example, protected residences myself. In the family's own circle you can see how much pain that causes, but also how strict that has been interpreted. It's a national scheme and "no, unless" is actually just no in practice. Now the Health and Health Council has said: put responsibility at that lowest level. In this crisis, you actually see that a lot of people seem to be able to handle a lot of responsibility. If you provide good information and have good risk assessment, then those risks can also be well weighed at that lowest level. How does the Minister feel about that advice? Is that something that can help us in the next phase to address people at their own responsibility at that level of the institution itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u328	I am very much in favour of this own responsibility, especially from the understanding of how we should grow to that new normal. I keep repeating, and I'm going to do that a lot more times, that if everyone keeps to staying at home when you're sick and on that five feet, it must be a pretty virus that can jump over that. You have to internalize that. I understand very well that the scare was in the outbreak phase and that people thought: I do not want to be the one who is going to give rise to the introduction of the virus here with us at the group, living with us in protected homes or with us in the institution. You can see that fear at the beginning of the outbreak phase may overreact a little in some institutions. And I understand that, too. I certainly would not like to say that about nursing care, because there is a great deal of reason for fear. There has always been room in the guidelines for disability care, for example. The "no, unless" was never meant to be "no," but in an individual location it has sometimes been interpreted as "no." Then I think it's a little too easy to ask whether you shouldn't put the responsibility at the lowest level, because my answer would be: it was actually there already. I think that sometimes you have to help with the guidelines you offer, so that you can take that responsibility too. That is why the VGN has been encouraged to take steps in this direction. I like that, too. Clients' organisations (Each) are included in this way, for example, and that is also good for me. This also fits in with this phase of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u329	It's about disability care. I agree. That conversation is taking place now, but I'm also looking at the nursing homes. People deal with them differently. You can see the cottages that have been set up, in which that contact behind plexiglass and with microphones is still possible. That's really beautiful. That's what's being played on. You can see that, if you think about the risks well, there is restraint, for example, in allowing carers too quickly. So you can see that people at that level are doing all that balancing themselves. But then there is the Council's advice. The council says: call that out loud, put it down there, go in consultation with client organisations, with institutions, with family members, and let them make that assessment themselves. Is that a direction the Minister sees in front of him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u330	Sure, sure. There are really national guidelines on the subject. For example, the Verenso Treatment Directive. It's just in place in the nursing homes. That is just how it is regulated in the law, and that is how it should be regulated in the law, because the specialists in the care of the elderly simply have a formal role to play in it. But it is very often also within the existing guidelines that much more space is possible, and I am very much in favour of a community of living with common sense, of course, giving shape and content to what is possible and necessary at that location. And, of course, hygiene rules must be complied with. It is not possible to dictate, by means of directives, exactly how such a community should function; that is not possible at all. So, yes, I'd love to. The more at the level of one's own location, at the level of one's own community, the question "how can we do it responsibly?', The better it is. That's also part of the new normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u331	Thank you for that commitment, I say to the Minister. A cry of hearts on my part: include carers and family members in it, because they are extremely important for that well-being and quality of life. Look at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u332	Sure. Very. Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u333	I asked a specific question, but I did not receive an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u334	Oh, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u335	Yeah, that's terrible. The question is whether enlargement is also possible in the death phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u336	Yeah, he's already here. In the palliative phase, there must be room. That's also in the current lead. Sure. And then there is also: and in similar situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u337	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u338	You should never turn off common sense. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to the block of varia. There were a number of questions in there. I start with Mr Van der Staaij's question: is the cabinet prepared to consider whether additional money could be made available to 113 Suicide Prevention? Especially at this time it is very important that people with suicidal thoughts can be helped. The help of 113 Suicide Prevention is of great value. Secretary of State Paul Blokhuis has always been in contact with 113 Suicide Prevention to check whether they are successful and whether they are still faced with the task they must perform. I think he's going back to work there for the next week. He will certainly ask this question: will you accomplish your task or do you need something extra? Because the work that is being done there is essential. For the viewers at home: this is not an open invitation for an extra account. Of course not, but we must ensure that we also enable the important clubs we have to do their important work. Then there is Mr Jetten's question and, in my view, Mrs Marijnissen's question on their joint proposal. There is also already contact with Q-support, who takes the aftercare of the Q-fever outbreak to see if we can learn from the way in which that has been handled and to shape that also for the corona patients, because that could be a very good idea. ARQ does the psychosocial counseling. We are already funding them for that, so that is invested there, but good assistance, also centrally organised, so that you can pool knowledge, seems to be a very logical idea. So that question already lies with them to advise us on it and to think about what that might look like. Then there is Mrs Van Brenn's question about a possible support fund for relatives of care workers. That fund's actually already there. To help that private fund, Mr Asscher's proposal, I believe, was two debates ago to co-finance it. We have promised that everything that is collected in private will be doubled by the cabinet by a maximum of 10 million. With this we think we can well accommodate the help for next of kin. So we have already implemented this at the request of your colleague Asscher. Then I come to the passage to which Mr Jetten and others have referred about the telecom data. I sent a letter today because I discovered that there was a passage in the letter that shouldn't have been in it. That was at least a premature passage and perhaps an incorrect one. It shouldn't have been there. I understood that a conversation that this would have been the potential outcome of has not continued. This is how practical it is sometimes when you have to craft a letter with 40 sides in one evening with all departments in The Hague. In short, this passage should not have been in this letter. Then what's going on? The RIVM has asked Mr Grapperhaus for an insight into the telecom data in order to be able to see more precisely how the virus is potentially spreading. This has to do with the fact that other countries in Europe are simply using telecom data on the basis of the European directive to monitor whether it is getting busier somewhere and whether it presents additional risks to the virus. What we want, of course, is as much insight as possible into and insight into the spread of the virus. Not only with testing you try to build a much more minute image, but also with the NIVEL stations you do so and with all kinds of very intensive regional surveillance. This could be part of an even more intensive surveillance, an even more intensive monitoring based on total anonymised data, as this does not involve any personal data. The questions that then lie ahead are the following. How do people's contacts change after easing measures? So what is the effect of behavioral advice and how does one adhere to it? To what extent is there a certain half-life? If you've been giving that advice for a while, is it gonna be sluts? How does mobility change, including by region? You spoke earlier about possible regional measures. Of course, you also have to graft it on regional data. So it's about anonymized data. It's a quick indicator. If someone is ill, they get complaints after an incubation period. So there's an important delaying factor in that. So this could be much more real-time, in the sense of: if this advice is given, then you can see this development and potentially expect this spread of the virus. So the better regional monitoring is, the more effective you could also implement regional policy. And that's what this is about. A normal and orderly conversation must first take place with the AP and therefore not the moved conversation that has not taken place and that has yet to take place. Then there must be an adequate legal basis. And the question is whether there is, and if there isn't, it has to be created and then your Chamber goes about it, because then the change of law just comes through here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u339	Was that the last question you had to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u340	I think so, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u341	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u342	The minister just went into the proposal for a corona center. I hope he also thought it was an exotic cooperation between Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Jetten on the post-care of corona. In the first period, I asked Mr Jetten a question about this, because there are signs from general practitioners from Brabant that there are suspicions that in some places people are more susceptible and have become more seriously ill precisely because of a relationship with Q fever in the past. Does the Minister agree that such a centre or other places should also be looked at and researched?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u343	Absolutely. If you join this cooperation, by the way, it will not be less exotic. I welcome that. Yeah, you gotta want to know. If you put the tickets together, I've heard Jaap van Dissel say, from the Q-fever outbreak then and the corona outbreak now, that damn thing looks alike. There's no other way than there's at least correlation. Where does this correlation come from and what environmental factors play a role in this? That investigation is currently under way. Among other things, Wageningen is involved. The lesson you must learn from this is something you must indeed do. I do not know whether that is within this institution, because this would be more about aftercare, as I understand Mr Jetten and Mrs Marijnissen's proposal. But you must absolutely want to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u344	It was indeed a bit of a shock when I read the original passage in the letter of the Chamber, because we asked telecom providers to make their data available. I'm thinking right away, what kind of dates? Who's gonna keep them? Who gets access to it and for what purpose, exactly? The fact that there was a correction note at the beginning of this debate, also because the telecom providers knew nothing about it, is indeed correct. I would have expected that this correction letter would include whatever the purpose, purpose and necessity and proportionality of this idea is. That's not in the letter. The Minister has just said a few things about this. That is interesting and I would like to know much more about it. I hope that in the coming weeks he will give more insight into the letters that are to come, so that we as a Chamber know, if we collect data from telecom providers on a large scale, for the purpose of doing so and how we ensure that it is done safely. I am being triggered by the last sentence of the correction letter we received this afternoon: "In the meantime, an amendment to the Telecom Act is under way." I do not think that we should think about the purpose and usefulness and necessity, but are already making the legal changes together. Can the Minister promise that he will first identify usefulness and necessity and only then, when the Chamber is convinced of it, will he start the legislative change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u345	Usefulness and necessity must be demonstrated by RIVM. It must be an actual addition that also offers an action perspective to the monitoring as it currently exists. This requires further discussion with the RIVM. That is what Mr Grapperhaus, and Mr Keijzer, is doing, because it is about the Telecom Act. This is a piece of text from both these departments. I am indeed going to ask them to inform your Chamber in advance, so before a legislative amendment comes your way, about the purpose of this supplementary data collection, why it is necessary and why it would not already fit into existing laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u346	Thank you for this commitment. A few weeks ago, the Chamber showed that we feel that you can use new technology in this crisis approach, but that this must be done in a very responsible way. That is why the Chamber has organised a number of things for the development of that app. I am very pleased that, when we collect the telecoms information, we first map the usefulness and necessity well before we make any legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u347	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u348	Mr Azarkan and then Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u349	I would like to continue on this point. I understand that there are already discussions with the Dutch Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u350	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u351	Everything still has to be done. Questions and needs should be specified, the specific purpose, public interest, efficiency and proportionality. As Mr Jetten said, in the meantime, the change of the law is already being sorted out. Where does it show that it's necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u352	That's a good question. Let me just promise to send it to you in writing, as I have already promised Mr Jetten. The question is whether there really is a need for a legislative change. I do not think that this sort of thing is so bad, as long as the order is correct. You have to formulate the goal properly first. What exactly do you want? Then why is that necessary, and why is that objective not to be achieved in another way? That's the point, of course. Can't you achieve the intensification of regional monitoring in another way? RIVM's been asking for this for a while. It really wants this. It is also used in other countries. I'm inclined to go along with that. The question remains whether the legal basis for this is adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u353	And you'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u354	That's what we'll get back to you in the letter. I will ask Mr Grapperhaus and Mr Keijzer to explain this clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u355	This is, of course, also due to the development of the app, which is described in the same chapter. Is there another correlation with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u356	No, that has nothing to do with each other. This is all part of the monitoring process. This is about whether you have an insight into the effect of the measures you take on time and quickly enough. For example, after one of the sermons of Reverend Rutte on Tuesday night, do you immediately see movement in the country again? In which region do you see them first? Could that predict the extent of the spread of the virus, which you actually discover through hospitalizations weeks later? That's the type of model refinement you want to apply. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u357	I think the following should be included in that letter. We are still curious as to which data is specifically requested. It is also known to the Personal Data Authority that it is announced that location data cannot be made anonymous, unless you submit a legislative amendment to that effect. Then you're not going to use that data anonymously. That is an essential point for us. Looks like they're asking for those location records right now. It can't be anonymous at the moment, and it can't be anonymous anyway. Where are we going? What data do we want if this is to be done anonymously, as you are quite sure to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u358	Anonymously, of course, it has to be. I think I have already promised three times that I will ask colleagues to put that on paper. That goes in your direction. At that time, you can continue the debate. This brings me to the end, and I believe that I have gained a great deal from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u359	Yeah, I do today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u360	I would appreciate it if you would conclude that later, for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u361	That's good. Oh, yes, Mrs. Van Brenk. Minister, you weren't quite ready. It depends on how short your answer will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u362	One more point. The Minister may be able to answer that very quickly. We had asked a question about England, where the deceased care workers receive a sum from the family. I have already heard from colleagues here that there is a fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u363	I answered that question. Actually, that question was asked by Asscher three weeks ago. Then I said keep the motion for a moment, because I'm going to think about it for a while. Two weeks ago I told Asscher: it's a great idea; that private fund is already there, so let's support that. I have just answered your question, which was actually about the same thing. And now again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u364	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u365	That was the fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u366	I missed that for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u367	It's okay. Thank you. It's going in the right direction. I now turn to the Prime Minister, who has an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u368	I have two additional points, first of all to Mr Dijkhoff. Children under 12 do not have to stick to the 1.5 meter distance on the terraces. That is what I wanted to say here. In this way, the problem is much smaller, at least at his home. Then I'm talking about the cinemas. I understand that Pathé is now being called down on this issue and is also being asked about it on the Internet. In theatres and cinemas the 30 person rule applies per room and not to the whole institution. I think I said that wrong to Mr Jetten. I said by mistake by the cinema, but that is by the hall. I just wanted to straighten that out here, because that Internet action could stop again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u369	Thank you. Then we'll just wait a minute. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u370	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At my mid-term arrival on 23 March I indicated that fighting the coronavirus of all of us requires a sprint and a marathon. A sprint, because we are faced with a sudden scarcity and a crisis in the field of protective equipment, ventilation equipment and ic-capacity, but also a marathon, because what started as an infection crisis, developed into an ic-crisis, a curative care crisis, problems in nursing homes, problems in the rest of the care and also problems for the economy and society. And when you see how far such a crisis can go: I recently went to work at a pharmacy where I was taken to the back, to the warehouse, where shelves were filled with drugs that were no longer taken because people were afraid to come to the pharmacy. I saw behind every box a patient who just needed those tools or medications. You'll be dealing with such a crisis, with large numbers, with hospital care, ic-capacity and all the problems associated with it, but these are just really big problems that people experience every day, just because they don't dare to pick up their medication anymore. By the way, that is much better now. It seems to me appropriate to include that sprint and marathon idea in the subject on which a number of Members of your Chamber have asked questions: the protective equipment in the care sector. Let me say first of all that all professionals must of course be able to count on being able to do their work as safely as possible. These are medical protective equipment, including the medical mouth masks. It is essential that you hear us say that these medical masks remain reserved for care. And yes, we are getting better and better at buying more and meeting demand. The motto is: buy, buy, buy. A comparison is sometimes made with Belgium, but in the meantime we have also bought 350 million extra, at least ordered, which we will get in the coming weeks. Then you have to divide it well over where it is needed, not only in the hospital, but also out there. So in itself it's numbers that you say: that's starting to look a little good. At the same time, I understand very well that there is a difference between the figures of supply and demand and the large numbers we communicate nationally, and the experience and feeling of employees in the care that they have insufficient or no protective equipment and they come into situations where the general directives on the use of protective equipment seem to be less appropriate and they feel unsafe without protective equipment. As far as I am concerned, therefore, questions have rightly been asked about the staff in the care sector, especially those who provide support to the people at home. If employees are at risk in this situation and cannot delay care and support, they need appropriate protection. Here too, we are taking steps forward. Let me explain. Principles have been established by the RIVM for when to use and when not. Those guidelines are based on contamination risks, not scarcity. I'd like to repeat that one more time. This applies to professionals in the hospital up to and including the people who provide care at home. This applies to the mouth and nose masks, but also to other protective equipment. These principles explicitly allow for professional consideration in specific situations. If the specific situation so requires, employees can deviate from the principles and use medical protective equipment based on their professional insights and experience. It is good to consult with colleagues and executives to work together towards a good approach. This concerns the use of personal protective equipment outside the hospital and everything that is included in it. It also applies, of course, to practical situations in which professionals are in daily practice and, as I said, they are not always caught up in the directives. This is why the Association of Nurses & Verzorgenden The Netherlands makes hand-outs for nursing and nursing staff, together with other parties such as industry organisations, healthcare providers and other trade unions and trade unions. These hand-outs are tested by the RIVM on the basis of the principles. It is simply about providing care professionals with practical handles. Those hand-outs will be completed and published in the short term. This also applies to Wmo care at home. Those directives are also adapted and supplemented by the notion that professionals may deviate from the Directive on a reasoned basis. Here, too, I would like to translate, with interested parties, including the unions, into the situations that can arise in practice, and here again I would like to offer those practical tools. This process has also been initiated. Now I hear people say: that is beautiful in itself, but wouldn't it be much nicer if you gave everyone a mouth mask for prevention, not just in specific situations? That's not a very good idea. There are disadvantages on the one hand if you do that across the board. There is a risk that mouth masks may not be used properly and the risk may increase. They sometimes offer false protection; that is also what you have read in the OMT's advice. The other point is that there is now a fragile balance in which we have looked at demand development and supply. These seem to be fairly balanced now, but the offer depends on questions like "does that plane fly?', "is there no stagnation in China?" And "what about the factory that delivers things?" That's exciting every day. If we were to say that everyone should only use mouth caps preventively, even in situations where it is not really necessary, you would get a huge boost in demand development. Before you know it, we'll create our own scarcity, and then we'll basically cut all the care workers short. The adage "before it does not, then it does not harm" does not apply, but if "before it does not, then it may harm." For this reason, I think it would be wise to follow the line that we should consider in which cases we should rely more on the professional insights of the employees. That's what we do in home care, and that's what we do in Wmo care. If there is a need to provide resources, the staff can count on it. Mr. Chairman. I think these were the questions where I wanted to say something about protective equipment in general. A few specific questions have also been asked. There was, for example, the question of whether the cabinet also thinks about the carers when it comes to personal protective equipment. I think Mr Segers and Mrs Van Brenn asked for this. It is true that carers who provide intensive care to vulnerable people with symptoms of covid and where the distance of 1.5 metres cannot reasonably be maintained due to necessary body-related care and care are also provided with personal protective equipment. The general practitioner or the GGD who takes the test from a client can therefore ensure that the caregiver can receive personal protective equipment through the pharmacy. What's tricky here is that you actually have to pool a little bit of demand. This can be done, for example, by the general practitioners. We can see if the appointments can be made with the pharmacy. That's what we're doing right now. The directive is also ready for this. I'm settling that case right now. I expect that to be clear next week. Mr. Chairman. There was another question from Mr Van der Staaij. He said: is it recognized that more preventive use of mouth caps can prevent infections? In fact, the experts do not agree on that. On the one hand, you can say that it can have an effect and then it could help. On the other hand, if you use those caps wrongly or for too long, or if your work doesn't allow it enough, you even have a chance that it has a negative effect. We have therefore opted for the obligation in places where 1.5 meters is not structurally feasible, there can be no pre-check and no pre-arrangements can be made, as in the O.V. There is no obligation elsewhere. By the way, this is about non-medical mouth caps. Mr President, that was my block on protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u371	This week I received a message from a lady who has been working in disability care for 30 years. She is still working there, without protective means, in accordance with the directive. She actually called us to give them those mouth caps, because in disability care, on such a group, it just doesn't keep a distance of 1.5 meters. That just doesn't work with the group of people they guide. Now I hear the minister say it's motto: buy, buy, buy. However, last week, in the technical briefing, we heard a leader of the National Consortium who said: I can order five times as much protective equipment, but I will not do it, because it is not necessary. My question is why we cannot reassure such a lady who works in disability care by saying: you are also given protective means to be able to do your job safely, but also, above all, to be able to deal safely with the residents of such a group. We hear that the argument of scarcity is no longer there and that it is "buying, buying, buying," and at the same time we hear that there is no need to buy extra because there is enough. That doesn't rhyme with each other, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u372	There is a short-term balance, so to speak. The question is whether this will continue to be the case in the long term. You also heard in the briefing that, in the short term, there is indeed a fragile balance between the demand coming into the rural centre and the flow of mouth caps and other protective equipment coming in. Moreover, this does not apply to all protective equipment, because there is still a question of possible scarcity in the coats. I have just said that if demand increases, for example, because people are going to wear more preventive caps, even in situations where that is not necessarily necessary, or if an aircraft, boat or truck stagnates, you have another problem right away. We really need to monitor this and therefore use the masks in the situations where the risk of infection is in accordance with the guidelines. If we all had a lot of those mouth caps, we wouldn't have to pay so much attention. Then you'd say, "What difference does it make?" You still have the downsides if you don't use it properly. At the same time, we really need to maintain enhanced dike monitoring, to ensure that we can implement the directive and to provide support for employees when they come to situations where it does not work for them, for example in a situation such as that described just now. This is necessary to come together with the professionals and the unions to what practical guidelines you might have to give those organizations or those people a package with which they can get out of their way. I think that is a more sensible policy for now than creating a problem for the whole concern that we are causing ourselves, as it were.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u373	Here's a statement from the Minister. He says: if we could make sure that everyone has those resources. That's why I referred to what the gentleman of the Consortium said. He just said they can order five times as much, but don't do it because it's not necessary. So I find this unacceptable. On the one hand, we say to our caregivers: no, no protective materials. Furthermore, the directives still state that, of course, there is restraint here, given that there is still a shortage of protective equipment. That's still in there today. At the same time, we hear that this scarcity is no longer there at all. In fact, more can be ordered, but it is an active choice not to. I have no choice but to observe that while we are here week in, week out, discussing the protection of our caregivers and asking for the utmost of these people, the least we can do is to ensure that they are able to do their job safely. If I now hear that the scarcity is no longer there and that we can even order more but do not, then I can only conclude that there is no political will to properly regulate protection for these people. Not only do I find that unacceptable, but I find that really irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u374	If that were the case, I would find it irresponsible, too, but it is not. What the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries does is next to the regular stream... You know the history of that rural center. Everyone bought tools for themselves. Then came the question of what we are actually doing, because we found that we could get much less resources. Then the government called for help: can we not work together? Then we can arrange the additional demand for tools with each other via that Rural Consortium Tools. Then, in a rather short time, actually within a month, that nationwide consortium was set up, logistics processes were initiated and air bridges were set up with the KLM to ensure that as many protective equipment as possible can be brought to the Netherlands. I'll tell you my answer when I heard in the briefing "well, we can order five more." Then I said, "You know what? Go ahead." We have to keep buying, because it is a fragile balance and the problem isn't really in his order anymore, because you can actually order a lot more now. The problem is at the rate at which you get those resources to the Netherlands. It has to be produced and then it has to come from the factory to the airport. There's traffic. You have to get from the airport to the hangars; there are also traffic jams. And by now, there's even traffic jams from airplanes. So yes, you can count on me to keep ordering where we can, but at the same time it is worth a lot to me to keep ensuring that we have a constant flow, which comes from Asia to the Netherlands in this case. I would point out that we are also looking at the possibilities of re-use. There are new techniques for that. Moreover, we focus on production in our own country. You have seen that a number of companies, together with the government, have said: we are now going to set up production in our own country, and that is going to lead to a million caps, hopefully, within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u375	In the context of "count your blessings," it is also good to be able to express those signals here once again. Yes, we also hear from, for example, home care institutions: fortunately, there is now a bit easier material to release than in the past. But we're not there yet. Do I understand the Minister that there is now more room for the responsibility of healthcare providers to decide for themselves whether or not to use personal protective equipment in situations that are assessed as being at risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u376	The situation is as follows: It wouldn't be good if you said, "You know what? Everyone has a mouth cover, even if they don't have to," because then we get ourselves into trouble. However, we have adapted the guidelines, both for care at home and for Wmo care. By the way, we go even further with that. We can write it in the directive, but healthcare professionals, care workers, find themselves in situations where the use of resources may not be possible under the directive, when they say: I know this Mr or Madam, and that is not going well. Or they come to a young person who is aggressive, which also means that, in order to protect the health care provider, you have to say to the danger: that cannot be done without protective equipment. In these cases, we are going to ensure that the judgement of a professional takes into account the availability of protective equipment. We work that out, together with the organisations for nurses and caregivers and with the trade unions, in order to be able to say very practically in what kind of situations it is and what kind of package you would have to bring with you, so that you can at least work safely in those cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u377	I think the expansion of space for the professional is a good thing. Then hopefully it doesn't have to be the case that a dissertation first has to be published that shows that it is indeed all very valuable in those situations, because there has to be room for a common sense approach, because in certain situations it can simply be helpful and have added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u378	I do not know exactly whether common sense is always better than a dissertation, but in this case I can imagine that that is the priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u379	I would also like to continue on this point. In fact, we hear in a very large part of the cabinet's response in this debate that we are very pleased that many Dutch people who have shown their own responsibility in controlling these measures, in slowing down the virus, you name it. We can expect this responsibility from all those professionals in healthcare, who can make the assessment of whether it is really necessary to use personal protective equipment or whether it is possible to do so without it in this situation. This care professional knows that he or she should not be using protective equipment all day without need, especially since they can be used somewhere else better. What remains unclear to me, despite debate after debate, is whether or not there is a shortage and whether that is the determining factor for the question of whether the healthcare professional can make that own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u380	RIVM guidelines are not made from scarcity, but from contamination risk, not only in the hospital, but care-free. That's gotta be real clear. Then we'll depend on it. If these are the directives, we have prescribed this use, and where and where not, you must of course ensure that those protective equipment are there. This means that they must be bought in, transported to the Netherlands and distributed. Both the procurement and the distribution, as well as the use, as well as the new distribution model in which you look at those contamination risks must be right. We're actually trying to align that whole chain, so it's all right from procurement to transportation, distribution and use. That's a really big job. We've been working on that for a while, and it could be better every day, but that's what's gonna happen. That means there may still be scarcity. You can order a lot, but you can imagine that if I hear one morning that a KLM aircraft is difficult to load, that there are customs troubles or that there are traffic jams in the air, I immediately worry and then I'm going to call to ask: can you tell me what exactly is going on, because I want to know how many are coming back to the Netherlands today and tomorrow. So if you look at macro, if you look at the figures, you can see that it's starting to balance a little bit, that we've ordered a lot and that a steady flow of reliable suppliers has now started, which we're still checking on three points. At the same time, it is still very fragile. We must be careful to increase demand where this is not necessary, and we must also be very alert to the fact that we have sufficient supply to ensure that it is available for the coming period. I say to Mrs Marijnissen and to you: I am not trying to ensure that supply and demand are exactly in proportion, but I am trying to see if we can also create a stock so that we are less dependent on the delusion of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u381	I understand the Minister can't guarantee it 100%. You're depending on the different flows that the protective equipment should be getting here. But it is not possible for someone from the national centre to tell the Chamber last week in the technical briefing "I could order an additional 5 million, but we do not" and that, at the same time, the directives "because of scarcity, you are asked to be reluctant to use the protective equipment, even if you, as a healthcare professional, think that it would be sensible in this situation". That can't be both true. It can't be true that we can order an additional 5 million and that we still have these directives so sharp in the meantime because of scarcity. So I really want to ask the Minister to ensure that this is resolved in the next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u382	That does not need to be resolved in the next week, because, as far as I am concerned, it has already been resolved in terms of orders. Again, be assured that we will do the same when we can buy. However, you must realise that there are still discussions about quality, delivery time and whether we are not paying usury prices. That will all continue to play, but we want to continue to operate in that way. I will not rest until not only supply and demand remain in balance, but we can also stock up for the situations you are describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u383	Last question, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u384	I took the initiative to invite the minister, so I thought I'd save him one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u385	I was kind of hoping for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u386	Yeah, that's why. Welcome, by the way. You have important work to do. It's different than tearing down the nursing homes this time. You're very welcome. I have two questions. The first question is about the mouth caps. You've sent all these beautiful pictures into the world where you're standing by planes and you're all unpacking masks. You've ordered a lot of them, too. But if you read the piece, the newsletter, even today, of the National Consortium, you will see that it says above all that the pipeline of masks is now well filled. That's nice, but of course we don't need much of a pipeline. It'll do us some good when they get here. I have a question for you. I have previously asked questions about this to Minister De Jonge and he has not answered them, or at least in the letter he has devoted two sentences which are meaningless, as we know him. I would like to ask you, when it comes to those mouth caps, how much is needed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then there's my second question. Eventually in the Netherlands we should be able to make mouth caps, gloves and breathing equipment ourselves. Almost all virologists agree that unfortunately there is a good chance that later this year there will be a second wave, so to speak, from that terrible pandemic of corona. It would be nice if we could make a large part of those materials ourselves. Can you also tell us what you are doing before that and whether you can do that? Can you indicate by material whether it will work and when it will work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u387	Thank you for the new definition of "sneaking." I didn't expect making 2.1 billion extra available to nursing homes to deserve the term "sneaking out." But it could be me. Then there is a question: could you give some more insight into the development of that pipeline? You called it a little bathinating a "pipeline," but this is very important. We must ensure that every day, every week, there is a steady flow of mouth caps every month. Because the consumption is just very large. We use about 3.5 million to 4 million masks a week. That's a lot. But I agree with you: we will see if we can give those statements in the next briefing. What does that pipeline look like? I'll try to come up with another word for it. Mr Wilders is also right to say that, of course, it is incredibly important to reduce our dependence on purchasing and to ensure that production starts at home. I think you've seen some pictures of that, too. So we must ensure that we can drive this Dutch production. That's what's happening with the mouth caps now. And we are working with the Ministry of Economic Affairs to see how the production of own protective equipment can be much wider. So this is not just about mouth caps, but also about gloves and jackets. We're looking at how we can seduce companies, and maybe stimulate them a little bit, to make sure that production in our own country takes off. We will, with full force. I would point out, however, that the raw materials of many of the items you use, such as those high-quality mouth caps, are, to a large extent, also from Asia. This means that we will not be able to fully reduce this dependence on other countries. But be sure that we will continue to do our best on this point too. Mr President, I may have one supplement on a completely different subject. Mr Dijkhoff has asked a few questions about sport. Those questions have already been answered by the Prime Minister. In addition, I might say that we are also in discussions with the paid football about when it could and when it could not be done. And under what conditions could that happen? So we are also talking to this sector about what can and cannot be done. Well, I didn't really want to do entrapment, but now it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u388	Have all the questions relating to sport been answered? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u389	I don't need any entrapment, you know, because I would have come forward anyway. The Prime Minister has indeed talked about the gyms, but I have also asked about indoor sports, indoor sports. In some sports there are very few people in the room at the same time, and one can also exercise by appointment. And there are also children who work out in a hall. Can we also look specifically with the people there what is responsible and what is not, just as at the gyms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u390	I'd like that. Many associations are also in the process of establishing an institution for themselves. What can and what can't be done? It would be a shame not to take notice of that. And that also leads to insights that we can use in the phasering of possible opening. Finally, Mr President. My conclusion with regard to protective equipment, i.e. wider than just the mouth caps, is that the light may shine at the end of the tunnel, but that we still cannot really estimate the length of the tunnel. That's why we're working on that marathon. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan benadrukken dat die marathon met alle mensen in de zorg wordt gelopen.]] This is of course about doctors and nurses in the hospital, but also about people in disability care, about people in domestic care, about pharmacists, about the people in the laboratory, about the people in the laboratory, about the people who take the blood. Every day they experience the consequences of the crisis. That crisis has consequences for their work. That's why we're looking for a responsible path. The Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS have also indicated that the phasing out of measures must be a phased and responsible path, hand on the emergency brake when necessary. And the marathon is a different, and perhaps bigger task than the sprint, but the results of the sprint may also give confidence that we will also complete the marathon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u391	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen has one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u392	I had put a question to Mr De Jonge. Then I got a little... Well, let me put it mildly. Then he said Minister Van Rijn would answer that question. So I'm still waiting for that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u393	That was about the use of mouth caps in the nursing homes. There are more infections. The consequences have been taken into account in the application of resources and incorporated into the distribution model. This means that nursing homes on these grounds already have more de facto resources than would have been the case without these infections. So it is already incorporated into the distribution model. This means that, if it is right, nursing homes on these grounds are already given sufficient resources to provide their staff with protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u394	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u395	So this also applies preventively? Because, of course, that was exactly my question. It is so hard for family members that they have not been allowed to visit their grandfather or grandmother or father or mother in the nursing home for weeks and in the meantime see that caregivers are forced to walk in and out unprotected. Do I understand that all those caregivers who work in a nursing home can finally rely on protective equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u396	For them too, of course, the use is as it is under the directives. They're based on contagion risks. The contagion risks are high in nursing homes. This means that they will also be given more resources on the basis of the distribution mechanisms than before. That has become the adaptation of the distribution model. That means there's more protective equipment going to the nursing homes. It depends a little on the infection and the nursing and care in the nursing home. Very often you see that in case of contamination a separate department is set up where employees with protective equipment do the care. Where there is no contamination and you can still take care of it remotely, it does not, of course, play, unless there are suspicions and you still have to take action again. You know we've had a time when we're testing. If two residents were tested positively, measures were taken immediately for the whole house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u397	You are through your questions, Mrs Marijnissen, but you still have a second term. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u398	I do not know if it is the same question, but I would like to continue on this point. Old people don't always know if they're infected. It doesn't reveal itself until later. Therefore, there is a need for preventive use of these protective equipment. You can see that it's dealt with very differently. Hence Mr Marijnissen's question, and I asked the same question, in order to be more generous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u399	This generosity is now contained in the models for providing protective equipment for nursing homes. That's because there's more contamination risk and so you need to do more work with a risk. This leads to more protective equipment. That is also in the distribution models and in the forecasts of the National Consortium Resources to be able to provide these resources. For the care at home, whether it's home care or the Wmo care at home, I indicated that we are working with the professionals to depart from the guidelines in situations that you couldn't foresee and that you still want to feel protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u400	Thank you. Oh, Mr Segers. I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u401	Last question, because in this case I cannot fully comment on where the gap lies between what one wants and what is available. At least the signals reach us that it is sometimes difficult to use preventive protective equipment. If an extra push could be given there, that would reassure a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u402	I'm gonna give that an extra push. I also agreed with the unions and the V&VN that if there are signs that there is a feeling that there is too much restraint in the operation, which is necessary, we will merge these signals with the signals received by the Inspection SZW and our Health Care Inspectorate, so that we can see if we still need to do stimulating work through that channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u403	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u404	We will continue the debate on the developments surrounding the coronavirus. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good to have heard that children under 12 can still sit with their parents on the terrace. But for families in the broad sense and proposals, you should be able to arrange in practice for them to sit at one table and a little closer together. If a couple of spoons lie at night, you should also be able to stick a fork within 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u406	The rule so far has also been: not in groups across the street, except when you are a family. There was also no problem in enforcement back then. I understand that we are making a bit of a laugh about it now, and I am working on it myself, and that we think it will work out, but what we are saying here is translated locally into very concrete rules. In one region was now at least the idea to translate it into one person per table. I am confident that we will find smart solutions to this, but it's not all that simple. Tables of 1.5 at 1.5... we have experimented with them in the Members' Restaurant... most entrepreneurs are not going to be able to open up at all. Maybe bulkheads or other smart solutions can help, but this requires that the regulators and practitioners work together to figure out what's smart and responsible. I'm confident this will work. The more limited the solutions, the less cost-effective it is to open up and run a terrace. This makes a wider support package even more necessary. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that despite the ongoing support package in sectors where many people meet and which are mandatory closed, such as catering, recreation, events, fairgrounds, stages and theatres, a significant part of the companies is struggling;]] [[noting that the fixed charges are running;]] [[whereas the Cabinet is looking at a second support package;]] [[Whereas there are companies in sectors which experience this as too late;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify, independently of the second aid package, in mid-May, a complement to the current aid package and specifically to take into account the problem of ongoing fixed charges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-320]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u407	Mr. Chairman. Quickly four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is evidence of presymptomatic transmission and asymptomatic contamination of the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the "precautionary principle" and to grant all care workers and domestic assistants access to protective equipment without restrictions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the Cabinet should prepare itself for a possible second corona wave;]] [[calls on the Government to produce and manage Corona-related care products such as mouth caps, aprons, gloves and breathing equipment in its own country and under its own management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM believes that if hairdressers, nailtylists and beauty specialists do a health check on their clients, contagion with the coronavirus is then excluded;]] [[noting that the same RIVM claims that there are indications of presymptomatic transmission;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the "precautionary principle" and to require oral protection for all contact professions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Esch, Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-321]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Krol, Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-322]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Krol, Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-323]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u408	Finally, Mr President. Just in time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is increasing evidence that corona virus infection occurs more frequently in indoor spaces;]] [[noting that two out of three Dutch people have difficulty keeping 1.5 meters away in supermarkets and shops;]] [[calls on the government to advise oral protection in indoor areas such as supermarkets and shops,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Krol, Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-324]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the first-term response. I would particularly like to thank the Prime Minister for correcting at the end of the first term some surprising answers from his first term, about the families on terraces and about the capacity of the cinemas. I understand that the cabinet is currently trying to stick to the date of 1 June when it comes to the Whitsun weekend, and to the date of 1 September, but that it is going to see what can be done around the Whitsun weekend and around the gyms. I also welcome the commitment to come back in a letter next week to all the questions raised by Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Staaij, among others: what about these concepts, what is the strategy and how do these concepts fit in? For example, we do not need to have a discussion about this anymore, where it is said: it is semantic. It is also good that the contact research is scaled up and that we are going to have the capacity survey next week. That's very important. I have one more question in connection with the first term, about the relationship between corona and Q fever. There is indeed overlap and there is research on fine dust and the environment, but there are also indications that having had Q fever may mean that you are more susceptible to corona. Is that included in this? Or can the Minister promise that he'll investigate that in another way? That was my second term. I would just like to say something about Minister Van Rijn. This is my first chance to do that here. This is a special time and I have great respect for the fact that he is willing to be here at this time and in this particular construction. I appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u410	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u411	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join those warm words for Minister Van Rijn. Thank you to the cabinet for the first-term response, and in particular for the warm words of the Minister of the United States of America for the initiative of the SP and D66 for a corona-expertise centre. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that suffering from the disease COVID-19 may be a major event and may lead to prolonged physical and psychosocial complaints in both patients and family;]] [[Considering that Q-support has already gained a lot of experience in the post-care of Q-fever patients in the areas of care, guidance and research, and that the Long Fund is now, together with the new post-COVID-19 lung patients, identifying what (after) care is needed for them;]] [[Whereas it is important that follow-up care for post-COVID-19 patients be started rapidly and that support and guidance be provided from a variety of angles, such as rehabilitation, (para) medical and mental care, income and employment prospects and social support;]] [[Whereas research on post-COVID-19 patients is also important, for example for the recording of long-term effects, and that there is a need for good cooperation between the various centres in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how to organise demand-oriented aftercare for post-COVID-19 patients combining care, guidance and research, including the experiences of Q-support and the Long Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-325]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u412	Mr. Chairman. We will still have to be vigilant in the near future, but where we can offer extra freedom, it is nice to give society more air. I am pleased that at the end of the first term the Prime Minister was able to clarify the uncertainty about the cinemas and the theatres, because perspective must actually be perspective. The same goes for the children on the terrace, very nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u413	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u414	Mr. Chairman. Thank you indeed to the Prime Minister for removing any doubt. And especially thanks to Mr Van Rijn. The fact that you're back here is a great pleasure for me. It's nice that you took up that responsibility again, just when it was the hardest. So thank you for that. I have two motions. I'm gonna read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis inevitably leads to an economic recession;]] [[Whereas the lesson of the previous crisis is that it is unwise to cut down hard and quickly through increases in household charges or to cut down on important public services;]] [[Whereas this crisis shows that the vital professions are essential for our society;]] [[Considering that the profitability of many large companies rapidly increased after the end of the previous crisis, but many of them are now asking for State aid;]] [[calls on the government not to charge the low and middle income households for this crisis through burden increases or to reduce public sector salaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-326]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u415	Mr President, my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that classical labour-intensive source and contact research is a key element in further containment of the COVID-19 virus;]] [[Whereas the current GDPD capacity is insufficient to carry out the classical source and contact research on each corona patient without continuing to undermine other GGD tasks and the absence of a national recruitment campaign;]] [[noting that countries such as France, Germany and Belgium have recruited thousands of new people to carry out this research;]] [[calls on the Government to launch as soon as possible a national recruitment to conduct classical source and contact research and calls for national guidance on capacity scaling,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-327]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions, so I'm gonna start fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to further reduce the tax on profits;]] [[believes that companies should also pay their fair share;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the proposed reduction in the tax on profits and not to involve the reduction of the tax on profits in the scenarios of public finances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers have insufficient access to protective equipment, while they are in close contact with often vulnerable people during their work;]] [[noting that there is still uncertainty as to the risk of infection in the event of pre-symptomatic complaints;]] [[noting that care workers regularly go to work with fear to catch or transfer the corona virus, but also that people who receive care are regularly anxious to be infected with the corona virus via their healthcare provider;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to give greater scope to the professional assessment of healthcare providers to use personal protective equipment, to make it clear what this means for demand and supply, to adapt the distribution model to this and to provide clarity on when and how healthcare professionals can use it, and to inform the Chamber within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-328]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Jetten, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Segers, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-329]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u417	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Government has committed 192 million for the development of a corona vaccine;]] [[believes that public investment and a vaccine should benefit society as a whole;]] [[Calls on the Government to include conditions for receiving Dutch funding for corona research, namely: global non-exclusive licensing of health technologies and transfer of research results to a patent pool;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to establish the same conditions for EU-funded research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has made a roadmap for the relaxation of measures;]] [[Whereas there is still little prospect and a high degree of loneliness for people staying in health care institutions or using day-to-day spending;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a roadmap for people staying in care institutions such as nursing homes, ggz, disability care and youth care, or using day-to-day spending,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-330]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u418	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased that next week the Prime Minister will address in writing whether we are pursuing a strategy aimed at as few sick as possible and as few infections as possible, or at letting the virus be controlled. I think this misunderstanding could have even greater consequences than the self-inflicted misunderstanding surrounding children on terraces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u419	Thank you. Mr Segers has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u420	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the rulers for the answers they have given. There's only one question left. It's not about Pathé or kids on terraces. It's a question to the U.S. Secretary of State. We talked about people who live protected, people in ggz, youth care institutions and disability care. At that time it was about the visitor scheme and it was about daily spending, but I had also asked for an exit strategy, which is understandable to them too, to be drawn up in consultation with them. So I'd like another comment on that. One more motion, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NOW scheme is a good scheme for companies with relatively high wage costs;]] [[noting that the NOW scheme is less suitable for companies with relatively many other fixed operating costs, such as the larger (family) companies in the manufacturing industry, horticulture, catering and other capital-intensive companies;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and how the ongoing fixed operating costs can be reimbursed, for example by replacing or adjusting the TOGS or NOW scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u421	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the directors for their reply today. I'll start with a brief service announcement. I want the Old-Hand motion on piece number one. To amend and put to the vote 292 (25295). The text of the amended motion has already been forwarded to the Registry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u422	Debates of the European Parliament has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that exports of veal have stopped;]] [[noting that calves now stay longer on farms and become overcrowded with all animal welfare problems;]] [[Notes that additional animal suffering and destruction of meat should be avoided;]] [[calls on the government to call on the sector to at least minimise imports of calves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 292 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u423	I heard Minister De Jonge admit that more can be done at the ggz. Fine. I would like to receive a letter stating how the cabinet is going to ensure that this is actually going to happen. Mr Ouwehand's motion is on the voting list tonight, but it really is a push to give more support to the ggz. Then there are two motions very quickly. One on the slaughterhouses. We were not satisfied with the answer in that regard. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there were concerns about compliance with the RIVM directives in slaughterhouses from the start of the corona crisis and that four trade unions are now also alarming about the unsafe work situation that this has created;]] [[noting that slaughterhouses and meat processing companies are found to be fireplaces for the corona virus and that hundreds of employees have already been infected in the neighbouring countries and also in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to enforce the RIVM Directives in all slaughterhouses and meat processing establishments;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that staff in the meat industry can be tested for contagion with the corona virus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to request anonymous telecom data;]] [[noting that the Personal Data Authority already indicated on 1 April that the location data of telecom providers cannot be made anonymous;]] [[calls on the government not to request telecom data if it cannot be anonymised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-333]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-334]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u424	That was the last motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u425	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. I say to Minister Van Rijn: welcome back, thank you for your commitment to this. I do not have any motions, but I would just like to briefly deliver the commitments that are important to my group. This is primarily about the strategy. Colleague Heerma suggested that we discuss this further in a letter. I would also like to mention the commitment on divine services to look at the areas for the longer term. At the same time, I believe that the discussions on restaurants and cinemas also show that there are still the necessary questions of impact on the implementation of possible relaxations which, I assume, will also bring the government closer together and on which it will report to us. Finally, thank you for the commitment on 113 Suicide Prevention. Unfortunately, it is also an effect of the expected economic crisis that it will lead to more suicides and therefore also to calls for help. This is their experience, and it is good that we are already considering at an early stage how we can prevent it as much as possible and support people who are struggling. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u427	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u428	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I understand that there will be an addition to what colleagues Heerma, Dijkhoff and Jetten have already said, namely about the cinemas with 30 people in one room. I do wonder how you get that business-economically profitable, but let's just say that at least that's mentally a boost. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that due to the corona crisis several negative health effects occur in society, showing that 53% of the Dutch move less (much), 28% smoke more and a third is more anxious, gloomy, stressed and lonely;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to monitor the negative health effects resulting from the corona crisis and to consider the need to take measures to address these adverse health effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-335]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u429	Then there's another motion on the masks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the OMT states that use of non-medical mouth caps may be considered in those circumstances where it is not possible to keep 1.5 metres away and apply triage;]] [[noting that, on the basis of the findings of the OMT and the RIVM, the cabinet decided to wear masks in public transport on 1 June and made this mandatory;]] [[noting that masks are sometimes traded at usury prices and sometimes create enormous scarcity;]] [[noting that the use of quality inefficient mouth caps leads to false safety;]] [[noting that masks are provided to the public in several countries;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the use of mouth caps and, if necessary, to consider whether it is possible to collectively provide Dutch people with high quality mouth caps in the event of scarcity and price increases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-336]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u430	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u431	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u432	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for the first-term replies. After my group spoke yesterday evening about a parliamentary inquiry into the Dutch government's approach to the corona crisis, the cabinet announced last night in the letter that it asked the Security Research Council to evaluate the approach. The OVV has now indicated that it will start this research. However, my group needs to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona virus has a huge impact on Dutch society;]] [[noting that the corona virus has caused thousands of deaths, including many in nursing homes;]] [[calls on the Bureau to launch a parliamentary inquiry into the Dutch government's approach to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-337]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u433	Still a question following the first two or three sentences. Are these correlations or correlations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u434	I wanted to keep going, because there's a little sequel coming up. That's a cliffhanger. We will continue this motion until there is more clarity about the approach of the OVV, in particular about their approach to the situation in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u435	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (25295, No. 337). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u436	Finally, we have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona virus has caused thousands of deaths;]] [[calls on the government to organise, in due course, a national moment of mourning in which the flags hang half-stick and one minute's silence is observed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-338]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u437	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u438	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u439	Mr. Chairman. Three motions. Our FvD credo continues to "test, test, test," hence the first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands only people are tested for coronavirus if they have symptoms;]] [[noting that there are indications that people without symptoms may also be contagious;]] [[Whereas the current testing policy risks that a new outbreak in a given area will not be detected until it is too late;]] [[Whereas the risk of late detection of a new outbreak can be avoided by regional preventive and random testing for contamination;]] [[calls on the government to periodically, sample and representatively test the number of people infected with the corona virus per region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-339]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u440	Motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the government's commitment to a one-and-a-half-metre society as the new normal;]] [[Whereas a one-and-a-half-metre society is contrary to human nature;]] [[Whereas a one-and-a-half-metre society for, for example, dance venues, festivals and major events does not offer a solution at all;]] [[Whereas alternatives to a one-and-a-half-meter society are also conceivable, such as, for example, a two-stream society:]] [[where healthy people can continue their lives as normal as possible;]] [[where risk groups are additionally protected, without excluding them, by opening supermarkets, shops, restaurants, cinemas and theatres on special days and times exclusively for the risk group and reserving parts of public transport for the risk group;]] [[calls on the government to properly examine the alternatives to a one-and-a-half-metre society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-340]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u441	This was the prettiest one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u442	Well, you saved it to the end. Then it won't work anymore. You should have started with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u443	Offering an advantage in times of need, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u444	No, because last time, I was hard on others, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u445	Well, next time then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u446	That's good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of the Krol/Van Kooten-Arissen Group. Next time you'll sit somewhere else, Minister. Next time, sit there in the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This evening, we would like to see the motion by Mr Van Kooten-Ariës which has been held on item No. The vote will take place at the next voting time. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the wearing of masks in the body is becoming compulsory;]] [[Whereas many minima, especially older people, are facing increasing costs;]] [[calls on the Government, following the example of other European countries, to make free non-medical mouth caps available to travellers in public transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Wilders, Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u448	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u449	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u450	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of measures will be relaxed by 11 May;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether measures for certain enterprises, such as gyms, can be made more flexible by taking into account customization based on the number of square meters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many activities are allowed outside;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether, under the conditions of climate change measures, measures can be relaxed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students can receive fines in their own dormitory because they are not "joint households" under the law and therefore violate the corona guidelines;]] [[Whereas this is a serious breach by the public authorities of the freedom of the individual;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no more corona fines are distributed on the above grounds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-342]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-343]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-344]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u451	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u452	Mr. Chairman. One point is also raised in the motions: the strategy. We'll include that in the next progress letter. What comes now in the Acts will also be in the letter. There can be no misunderstanding about that. Our strategy is to control the virus as much as possible. We do this because it can protect people with vulnerable health and our older people and also to prevent them from being overburdened. We do this by ensuring adequate hospital capacity, in balance with the protection of people with vulnerable health and the elderly. In addition, we contain new outbreaks through vision and insight into the spread of the virus. You will see this in the next progress letter and we will be able to discuss this later. Then I'll get to the motions. First of all, the motion in part No. Mr Dijkhoff: Court of Justice judgment. There are two points here: the first is about feasibility, because the measures obviously require a great deal of implementation, but also understanding that, unfortunately, not every company will survive this crisis. So, judge Room. Then the motion to part No. 323: dissuade. The main rule is keeping a distance of 1.5 meters. In professions where this is not possible, but where it is possible to ask if there are certain health complaints, the transfer is minimized. So the motion in part No. 323: dissuade. The motion in part No. 324: dissuade. The only way to deal with the virus successfully is if people stick to the basic agreements. This includes: stay at home if you have any complaints, and keep the 1.5 meters away. So the motion in part No. 324: dissuade. The motion in part No. 326 from Klaver, Asscher and Marijnissen I advise. It's really too early. We must now see how we can restore the economy in the safest way possible. That's also the best way to limit the damage. So we are not going to anticipate a discussion that should take place later this year. The same applies to the motion in part No. 328 of the SP. I'd advise against that, too. The focus is now on fighting the crisis. We are going to look at the preparation for the budget in August. Mr Asscher, Mr Hoekstra and I came to the conclusion earlier today that we all, Mrs Marijnissen, do not rule out anything. The motion in part No. Mr Segers and Mr Heerma gave their verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 333. The inspection can monitor the health risks arising from non-compliance with the 1.5 metres by means of the Arbowet. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The aim is to test everyone with complaints from June onwards, possibly on referral from the company doctor. The motion in part No. 336: dissuade. We will follow developments well, but making them available is not our intention. The motion in part No. 337 on the parliamentary survey is, of course, a matter I am not going to dwell on. The motion in part No. 338, I think, is a sympathetic motion, but we are now in the middle of a crisis. First of all, let us fight it further and come back to this later. So I'm deceiving the motion now, but I'll say it's sympathetic, but for a later moment. The motion in part No. 340, I don't recommend. The 1.5 meter is really the most effective way of enabling viable measures against contamination. Not only do we think that, but all the experts agree that. A variant of this type of rule is actually seen around the world, especially in European countries. What we absolutely do not want is a two-stream society with first and second-class citizens. Then the motion to part No. 341 by Mr Krol. I really think people should take care of the non-medical mouth caps themselves. They don't have to buy them; they can make them themselves. On the website reichsoverheid.nl that will be as soon as possible or is already available. So the motion in part No. 341: dissuade. The motion in part No. 342 is simply not enforceable and enforceable. This is something you can look at later, but right now we really need to try to keep things viable. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 342. The same applies to the motion in part No. 343. In enforcement it is simply not possible to do so. So the motions on pieces number one. 342 and 343: dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 344 on no fines for students. No fines in the house is already on the line. Indeed, not all student houses in their entirety form a common household; think of large houses. In public space they simply have to keep the 1.5 meters away. You really can't tell if they have a common household. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 344.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u453	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u454	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the motion in part No. 325 by Mr Jetten and Mrs Marijnissen. It's about demand-oriented aftercare, a little in line with Q-support. We have asked for that plan and we are positive about what is already being shown about it at the moment. So I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 327. It calls on the government to start a national recruitment process in the short term. I have explained to you in detail how we are doing this with the GGDs. So I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 330. It invites the government to make efforts to establish the same conditions for EU-funded research. This is about the conditions for global, non-exclusive licensing and the transfer of research results to a patent pool. We had a motion from GroenLinks some time ago which was a bit in the same direction. Then we came to the wording "acceptable conditions." That was linked to the principles of socially responsible licensing. We very much agree with that. At the same time, you should be careful not to make the gates that you place so narrow that no pharmaceutical can crawl through. Most have also said that they want to make it all available at cost and develop it at cost. These are, of course, also the studies in which we invest. That's very important. But as for the condition for a patent pool, where the vaccine must be transferred to a patent pool: that patent pool is not yet available. So if you do such a condition in advance, that means you're actually gonna be lining up in the back of the line to invest. So I don't think that's convenient. What we all want is for the vaccine to become available on very acceptable terms. That's what we all want. We also want public funding to benefit the public and the generic benefit to everyone who contributes to it. In short, I think we agree on the direction, but this condition would really be too strict. So I would like to discourage the motion for a resolution for that reason. But that is not because I would disagree with the direction. Then the motion to part No. 331 of Asscher, Marijnissen and Klaver. It invites the government to develop a roadmap for people residing in a healthcare institution. I like that motion. It is really in line with what we are doing, but I think it is even more concrete. So I'm going to be happy to leave this motion to the House. I just think it's a wise idea. I'd like to get on with it. The motion in part No. 334. That is a reference to the paragraph in that letter, which I said: that paragraph should not have been in the letter for a while, because we need to have a number of discussions first. Mr Grapperhaus and Mr Keijzer will come back to this in detail. So I find it a little strange to comment on a piece of text that should not have been in that letter at all. So I'm not going to recommend that motion. Where the text was untimely, so is this motion. Then the Azarkan motion in part No. 335. It calls on the government to continue monitoring the negative health effects resulting from the corona crisis. Yes. That is where I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber, albeit on the understanding that this cannot be a separate corona health monitor, but is more taken into account in future explorations in the general health monitoring by RIVM. I would therefore like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u455	Mrs Van Esch, on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 334?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u456	Yeah, I want the motion in part no. 334 holding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u457	At the request of Mrs Van Esch, I propose her motion (25295, No. 334), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 334/2004. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u458	Then the motion to part No. 339. That's Hiddema and Van Haga's motion. I recognize the text of that motion. I've got the idea that's been filed once or three times. I have also said once or three times that it is unnecessary, because we are doing this type of random examination, representative serological examination. So I don't think this motion is necessary. I therefore advise against this motion. Then I have three more questions. There is a question from Mr Heerma. That question is about investigating the possible connection between having Q fever and being potentially more receptive to covid. Is that a imaginable connection? I'm gonna see where that research could be done, but I'm okay with the question and the desirability of that research. So I'd like to say so. Then there was a question from Mr Segers about the exit strategy in simple language. In the meantime, it is already on the site of the government. So last night's press conference has already been translated into simple language. A small, confrontational moment of self-reflection was at the top: on Wednesday 6 May, Prime Minister Mark Rutte told about corona on television. So if the press conference has to be translated into simple language, then I understand that my whole part will be deleted. So that's a moment of reflection on the late evening. So that's what we've found out again. Then there was an interesting question from the group chairman of the Krol/Van Kooten-Arissen Group about therapeutic swimming. There was another answer waiting for you. For all contact professions these can be exercised, provided the strict hygiene rules are maintained and triage takes place beforehand. This also applies to therapy in bathing water on 11 May. This can happen if the distance between the controller and the client, and the distance between clients, is at least 1.5 meters. If this distance cannot be handled, the operator must comply with the hygiene rules. If that is not possible, then this treatment is not yet possible. The showers in swimming pools are closed, as described in the letter of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u459	Mr Segers, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u460	I think I should speak a little more intelligible myself, because my question was apparently not clear. My question is about the exit strategy for themselves. They are in a situation of protected living. It is an exit strategy that they themselves have to understand and measures that concern them. I'm really glad they know what the Prime Minister has said. That's lovely, but I'd like to bring it a little closer to home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u461	But then it connects to the road map of Members Asscher, Marijnissen and Klaver. I think that is very much in line with your question, and I was already enthusiastic about that. Then I'm going to serve you down that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u462	Thank you. Then the Minister for Medical Care and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u463	The motion in part No. I should like to dissuade 321 of Mr Wilders. I have indicated that use across the board would, in our view, lead to new scarcity. For that reason, I would like to discourage the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 322 concerns the production and management of protective equipment in his own country and in his own administration. We do not think it is wise to produce and manage this in our own administration. However, I am working, as I have indicated, for the long term, in accordance with the Marijnissen/Heerma motion, together with my colleague in Economic Affairs, on a proposal to strengthen and extend the production of medicines, vaccines and protective equipment in our country and in Europe. Then the motion to part No. 329 by Mrs Marijnissen. I indicated in the debate what we are already doing to increase the professional assessment of healthcare professionals, at least in order to give them more room for manoeuvre. If I may read the motion in this way, a letter will be asked for in two weeks. However, I would like to take it with me in a letter coming in two weeks' time. Then I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-07-tweedekamer-5.u464	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of the debate. The motion in part No. 337 held Ms Van Brenk after filing. Then the motion is in part No. 337 also apprehended. There is a need for a twenty-minute suspension. I am also looking at Mr Heerma. A number of groups have indicated this.
