ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u1	Then we go to the VAO Implementation Social Security. I welcome the Minister and the Members again. I should like to be the first to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk for his contribution to this VAO. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Nieuwsuur has revealed that migrant workers are fraudulent of sickness benefits;]] [[noting that this fraud is partly due to a lack of control abroad;]] [[calls on the Government to step up the monitoring of payments abroad, to seek and/or strengthen cooperation with other countries, if necessary, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the premium affair revealed that the Tax Administration was working with blacklists and premeditated risk selection in the detection of possible fraud and has now discontinued these lists and risk selection;]] [[noting that the Tax Administration is exchanging data with the UWV and that the UWV also works with risk models;]] [[calls on the Government to identify whether the UWV also uses blacklists and biased risk selection when detecting possible fraud;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an overview of the type and nature of the data provided by the Tax Administration to the UWV in order to prevent people from being wrongly known as fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-635]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-636]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people with benefits and their income should be protected from the effects of the corona crisis, and benefit recipients, where health and capacity are not a barrier, should be able to be accompanied and retrained to employment without uncertainty about income;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the application and termination of the benefit for the duration of the corona crisis by reaching the end of the duration of the benefit;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the compensation for the duration of the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the short-term WW from three to six months;]] [[also calls on the Government to suspend the cost-sharing standard/partner test and capital test for the duration of the corona crisis for WIA/Wajong,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26448-637]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. We had indeed tabled an amendment of 500 million as a delta plan for work, because it is extremely important that people are helped to work and supervised. That was not an amount we had invented, but that was an urgent plea from Mr Thissen of the UWV. That was the money you needed. I know there were some narrowing reactions, so "can that amount be even higher?'. I am pleased to note that it has increased: it has doubled. I am glad that the Minister has come to his senses, because it is very necessary. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u5	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Palland. Mrs Palland speaks on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Six months ago we had the AO Implementation of social security. That is where we talked about the importance of good implementation for public authorities, citizens and business. We talked about the human dimension and we also put the finger on the issues that lie ahead, for example in the area of the shortage of doctors for the social-medical assessment and in the area of the ICT statement for the UWV. Mr. Chairman. After that AO corona held the country in its grip and the UWV had and has a prominent place in the execution of the emergency packages. This will be even more the case in emergency package 3 by providing additional support and guidance to jobseekers. For corona, it was estimated that the current available capacity would not allow sufficient space to take on all planned activities. SLIM, STEP, AOV ZZP: that all takes time and actually more than we would like. Can the UWV keep all balls in the air, including emergency kit 3? What does the corona commitment to the task and activities of the UWV that were already there mean, for example, eliminating deficits in social-medical assessments, the ICT statement and the Work Agenda? Mr. Chairman. I came in a little later, but I think it was discussed in the previous VAO that we read in the FD today that the Minister would like to pull the plug on the free career advice. I saw that GroenLinks and the colleague of the VVD have already asked thorough written questions about this, but I wanted to raise one aspect here. I do not think he is pulling the plug so much as the capacity to assess the applications for this year. That is, of course, a worrying development: people want to take advantage of it and we encourage it, but we cannot deliver it. I'd like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u7	Thank you. Then we have reached the end of the Chamber's term. I'll take a look at the Minister's direction. He wants a five-minute suspension. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u8	I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions and to give an opinion on the motions tabled. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u9	Thank you. There are indeed two questions or comments that I would like to respond to. The first is from Mrs Van Brenk, on the debate last time and the amendments on the 100 million and 500 million. In my opinion, there was no hilarity at the time about the amendment itself; in my opinion, there was a broad view, including politically, of the need for training and helping people from job to job and from benefit to work. It was then more about the doubling and the tenfolding. But you are right, because last Friday we presented a support and recovery package that contains even more than EUR 1 billion for October this year until 2022, for training, guidance from work to work, vulnerable groups and debt and poverty issues, because it is necessary. So in that sense, we agree in this Chamber and that's just good news, I think. The second point is Mrs Palland's question. What does all this mean for the UWV? And does it also mean that other trajectories come into the tribulation? I said earlier that we are currently asking a lot of questions from our implementation organisations, and in particular from the UWV, when it comes, for example, to the NOW, training and assistance of the unemployed. But it is also simply about the standard capacity demand. There are just more people applying for a WW benefit. This also creates hustle and a burdened organisation. So yes, the UWV is definitely heavily taxed. I am also very pleased that, despite the heavy tax burden, they are doing such good work around the NOW and paying people's benefits in good time. Having said that, there are a few points of interest in the normal execution. I also informed your Chamber of the suspension of activities for WW benefits. I wrote to you in a letter saying that it was delayed. The same applies to projects which have been delayed at first but which have started again in the meantime, such as ICT projects. The UWV has done so by hiring additional capacity and hiring additional people to get back to work on those routes. So our first impression now is that these measures and the extra work have had a limited effect on the capacity to carry on, for example, those other routes. It has caused a bit of delay, but by buying in extra capacity it can be partly picked up again. It won't be overtaken, but it'll be picked up. Mrs Palland's second question was about career advice, which we discussed in the previous VAO. This is not carried out by the UWV, but by UVB, so at the Ministry of Social Affairs itself. However, following the recovery and support package last Friday, we must, of course, consult with the UWV again on how we are going to shape this, i.e. the training side and the extra-service side. After all, extra work comes from underneath. So when I say "beware of execution" in this Chamber, I mean that seriously. We do not want to push people into execution over the blade and burden them with unfulfilled regulations, however well-intentioned. That is why I believe that I have a responsibility to say to your Chamber: I understand your question, but unfortunately this cannot be done. And that's what I'm really going to do, as I announce, for some topics, because I think we need to look at the health of the implementation in a broad sense. Then there are the three motions. The first motion, in part No. 635, by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Tielen, deals with fraud involving sickness benefits. I would like to say that a lot of migrant workers do not fraud, and that a lot of migrant workers work in the Netherlands, pay contributions and taxes and contribute very neatly to the Dutch economy. Those people are always put in a negative light by the image that there is nothing but fraud. That is what I hear from the ambassadors of countries in Eastern Europe, and that is simply not true. That's what I wanted to say. Mr Jasper van Dijk does not mean that either, but you could read that in it if you read superficially. The second is the risk of lack of control. As you know, we're working along two lines to map this. One line is that we have intensive discussions with Poland, for example, about cooperation between the UWV and the Polish sister UWV on monitoring data and combating fraud. Secondly, following previous debates with your Chamber, KPMG is also investigating the risks of fraud. It's still going on. Against that background, I would first like to receive, analyse and discuss with your Chamber before I announce other or new things. This is in fact in line with Mrs Palland's question. Much is already happening in this area; let us first get the facts out of the way. Against that background, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u10	The motion in part No. 635: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u11	The second motion, tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Leijten, to item No. 636, I think it's a fair motion. This is an important subject, also given the discussion we have had recently with the Tax Administration. Moreover, I have already provided information on what is known in the various implementing letters, for example on nationality as an indicator in risk models. It's already in the execution letter. But this motion, I'd like to give you room for judgment. I'm gonna take some time to figure this out. So this isn't coming in the short term, because it also has to do with the ongoing routes on WW risks, the WIA risks and everything we're doing because of the situation in 2018 and the fraud examples that came up. But I think the subject is very important. It is right that Mr Jasper van Dijk should draw attention to this. So please judge Chamber, but with these comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u12	The motion in part No. 636: Judgement Room. The motion in part No. 637.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u13	For the third motion, tabled by Mrs Van Brenn in part No. 637, isn't cover. That is the technical argument. In substance, the motion is a large list of requests for something no longer to be done. In the context of the labour market and the activation of people into a new job, I think that this is unwise in substance. There are also things in it that are incorrect. For example, in the WIA and the Wajong there is no cost-sharing standard. Against this background, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u14	The motion in part No. 637: dissuade. This raises another question for Mrs Van Brenn. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u15	I would like the Minister to acknowledge that it is very difficult to get another job in corona time. In fact, this motion asks: give these people a little more time before they get into trouble or have no benefits at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u16	I think reality is a little more layered. Even in corona time there are currently sectors in which there is still tightness. In education, health and technical professions, there is still a tight grip. It is right and it is our job to help people from one sector to another. That is why last week's package of €1.4 billion of support to help people through training and through guidance from one sector to another. Some other sectors are opposed to this. I am thinking of the travel industry and catering, where the question is serious: is all the work still coming back and what tools can you use there to help people, for example, get a new job in another sector? Some of the things Mrs Van Brenk is asking are also not feasible. For example, extending the short-term WW benefit from three to six months is impossible in the short term. I've changed that with your room before. In part, I understand Mrs Van Brenk's question, but I believe that our joint commitment must be right: to ensure that we have the tools available to help people find a new job in a sector that is still cramped at the moment. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u17	Thank you. Thank you very much. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-03-tweedekamer-15.u18	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for being here this afternoon. I'm suspending the sitting for a moment. In a moment we will continue with the VSO about the message that the bonus in connection with a 12.5-year anniversary has to be surrendered because of the Wajong benefit.
