ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of member Gijs van Dijk amending the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Allowances Act and any other laws relating to the introduction of a uniform minimum statutory hourly wage and any other amendments, Section 35335. I would like to welcome the initiator, Mr Van Dijk, of the Labour Party. He is supported in Box K by Mr Elwin Wolters, member of the PvdA Group. Welcome and good luck. This is always beautiful. Regardless of political views, this is always a celebration for the Chamber. That's just what we're gonna do this morning. This celebration is listening to the presence of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would also like to welcome. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this legal process is planned at a later date, of course, in good consultation with the initiator. I would point out that Mr Bruins of the Christian Union will join the debate a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Allow me, before I begin, to dwell on the terrible tragedy that is currently taking place in Lesbos, Greece. Camp Moria is on fire. It's really a terrible tragedy. Joint action is now urgently needed. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with compliments to Mr Gijs van Dijk for submitting a law, because making a law always takes a lot of work. That's what deserves compliments. He also deserves to be congratulated on his content, because one uniform minimum hourly wage is, as far as we are concerned, quite right. So no more looking at what someone earns a month, but at what someone earns an hour: that's an important message from this bill. In addition, this uniform hourly wage is then based on a 36-hour working week. This means progress for those who make more hours, for example 38 or 40 hours a week. A fine proposal, which also makes enforcement easier. After all, there is one clear hourly wage, rather than several hourly wages. Mr. Chairman. I do have a few more questions. Is it correct, I ask the petitioner, that this law was already in 2017 but was not dealt with at that time? Why the delay at the time? What are the costs of this law? Is it true that this law does not cost money, because the petitioner leaves the link with the benefits? What's with the choice? Does Mr Gijs van Dijk not think that the benefits and the AOW should be linked to the statutory minimum wage? I'd like an explanation. Mr. Chairman. The statutory minimum wage is an achievement from the 1960s. It was then, quite rightly, decided that a minimum wage would be appropriate for our society. It protects workers from hunger wages. Without minimum wage you have no soil and your wages can be as low as the boss wants. That is why every civilisation must have a legal minimum wage as far as we are concerned. However, our minimum wage in the Netherlands has fallen considerably behind the average wage in recent decades. In the meantime, the minimum wage is too low for many people to make ends meet. Families are increasingly dependent on two incomes. In last year's initiative paper for a fairer wage, I have already argued that the statutory minimum wage should be increased. We are now a year ahead and it is time for a substantial increase in the minimum wage as far as the SP is concerned. We therefore come up with a bill to gradually increase the current minimum wage of about €10 to €14. We are now putting the finishing touches to that law, to the deadlines and to the exact implementation. We also invite other parties to join us. I also ask Mr Gijs van Dijk whether he shares my view that his proposal is a step forward but that more is needed. He recognizes this also in the written answers he gives to our questions and he also supports the FNV's campaign, For 14. Can I therefore count on support for our proposal, I ask Mr Gijs van Dijk. Research shows that raising the statutory minimum wage has all kinds of advantages. It helps people out of poverty. This is, of course, also due to the link with the benefits and the AOW. It creates more purchasing power and thus more economic growth. It has little effect on employment, according to a study by the Central Planning Bureau; it is always a well-known argument from opponents of increasing the statutory minimum wage which would lead to unemployment. So that's incorrect according to our friends at the CPB. It also has a driving effect on other wages. That makes sense, because if you raise the lowest wage in a so-called job building, wages will have to rise above that. It generates money because of the so-called income effects. For this, see the research of the research agency SOR on behalf of the SP; the minister knows this very well. An increase of 10% in the statutory minimum wage will generate around €1.5 billion in additional tax revenues. It would be nice if the Central Planning Bureau would take that into account as well; perhaps it will listen. In short, a higher minimum wage is not only feasible and affordable, it is above all fair and just. More than 2 million people are getting better, on top of the people with benefits or with AOW. Finally, I would like to end with a quote from the booklet entitled 'Thinking at 14 euros'. That is a quote from Mr Wimar Bolhuis in one of the last chapters. He makes a very optimistic appeal to the House of Representatives which I fully share. He says: "In the campaign for the Lower House elections, a gradual increase in the minimum wage will certainly be included in the programmes and become the subject of debate. If the Central Planning Bureau indicates that a higher minimum wage will create more jobs, then it is much more attractive for the middle parties, ChristianUnion, D66 and CDA, to promise an increase in the run-up to the elections. For the SP, which already advocates an increase, and possibly GroenLinks and the Labour Party, an increase is more self-evident in order to raise incomes and combat poverty, but for a majority in the Lower House an extension of a coalition of the willing with the middle parties is certainly necessary." Let it be an inspiring piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u4	There's been an interruption for you from Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like to ask Mr Van Dijk where he reads in the initiative proposal that the benefits and the AOW are decoupled, because I do not read that. Furthermore, with regard to the increase to the €14, the proposal that the SP will come with, I take it that the benefits remain linked to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u6	To begin with, absolutely. The SP maintains the clutch. Benefits and AOW automatically rise with the increase in the minimum wage. Then there's your other question. In the preparation of Mr Van Dijk's law, I also asked what that was about. For example, it states that this law does not entail any additional costs because the reference hourly wage is considered, so that this law has no impact on the benefits and the AOW. That raises the question of what happens to the link.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mrs. Van Brenk? No? Then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u8	For the sake of completeness, with regard to the booklet and the texts of Wimar Bolhuis from which Mr Jasper van Dijk just quoted, I would like to say that there is now a supplement plan of D66, in which the minimum wage is increased and also the benefits. I'd love to give him a version.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u9	It is absolutely right and proper for Mr Van Weyenberg to point out his plan. I look forward to the debate on that. We will also look at the surcharges. That is quite right, because it is quite a circus; a 'round pump circus' is also called it. I'll just point out that it shouldn't be a cardigan pocket surgery. The lifting of the surcharges on the one hand and raising the minimum wage on the other hand, of course, does not yield much for a person on the other. As far as the SP is concerned, you have to make real progress in combating poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u10	I totally agree with that. Among other things, we want to introduce a negative income tax. In our plan, we have chosen a form that will raise the minimum wage and make the step to work pay more. So we can make sure that people don't get stuck in those surcharges anymore. We can combine this with income progress and make work pay more. Mr Jasper van Dijk attaches importance to the link and I understand that, certainly from his party, but I think he agrees with D66 that you still have too little net left of it now if you take the step of a benefit to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u11	Let me put it this way: I see it as a constructive contribution. I really hope that we will soon be able to find a majority in the Chamber to take steps towards a higher minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin, like Mr Van Dijk of the SP, by commenting on the terrible situation now in Greece, in a refugee camp. Let us hope that we take action very quickly and do not leave these people to their fate. Next, Mr van Dijk's own-initiative proposal on the introduction of the minimum hourly wage. I would like to begin by complimenting Mr Van Dijk and the PvdA on the work they have put into this bill. Let us be clear: as GroenLinks, we are extremely pleased with this initiative. The minimum wage is an important basis for our labour market. "An acquisition of the welfare state" was called at the time, when it was introduced. It's something that doesn't need to be negotiated anymore; it just is. It is so right that this basis is also the same for everyone. A minimum wage per month is no longer appropriate at this time, in which it is simply no longer natural that everyone works 40 hours a week. It is therefore a very good thing that this law provides for a minimum hourly wage. The idea behind the introduction of the minimum wage was that workers with the lowest wage should also be able to support their families. It is actually quite interesting to go back to that thought, because can we actually do that in this society? At the moment, people who earn the minimum wage have to claim all kinds of arrangements to make ends meet, to make a decent living, with a lot of bureaucracy, a lot of non-use and the problem of paying back, which is partly the cause of the big debt problem in the Netherlands. The author refers to this initiative proposal several times as "a first step," but towards what? That's actually my most important question. What is the future perspective that the PvdA likes to see? Then I have a specific question about the link with the benefits. That's what it's been about for a while. That link is there for a reason. And people who, for whatever reason, cannot work, must be able to live; I think we all agree on this. Now the PvdA makes a very nice plea for raising the minimum wage, because it is very important to combat poverty. Everyone must be able to be sure of a decent existence. Could the PvdA therefore also explain why it was not chosen to increase the reference monthly wage as well, in order to base that on the 40-hour working week? Isn't that actually a better way to combat poverty? Apart from this last question, therefore, we are very enthusiastic about this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. There is another interruption for you from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u15	I fully agree with Mr Smeulders. This law is a good step, but how do we proceed? Mr Smeulders is right to put this question to the Labour Party. My question to GroenLinks is: how do you look, for example, at the plans to go to €14, which my party is working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u16	Not only your party, but also the FNV, the largest trade union in the Netherlands. We also have discussions with the FNV about this. We are, as I think many parties, very busy with our electoral programme at the moment. We are going to make a final decision on this. So that minimum wage should be raised is obvious to us. But at what amount and at what time, we are studying that very well, also because in our system of course there are a lot of buttons around the surcharges and taxes that you can work on to ensure that people at the bottom of the labour market are left with a lot more money. So we are very sympathetic to the FNV's proposal and the plans you are working on. To what extent we are really going to support that and to what extent, that will be evident in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u17	That tastes like more. I'm waiting for the election program to be thrilled. Perhaps you'd like to send an e-mail when it appears?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u18	I will. Maybe that's what the paper says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u19	We're gonna see. Thank you. Then the floor is for Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by complimenting Mr Gijs van Dijk on the great work he has put into this bill. That's really worth a compliment. When I was preparing this debate, I wondered if the initiator might have been inspired by the story in Matthew 20, a Bible story, a Bible book. Because in that biblical story, the owner of a vineyard goes to the market several times during the day to recruit seasonal workers. And they go straight to work, some very early in the morning, others around noon and others only at the end of the afternoon. But at the end of the day at the payout, things go a little bit wrong. There are grumblings, because those who have only worked for a few hours get the same pay as those who work all day: "That's not fair, is it?" The story gets a surprising ending. But I noticed that the discontent is in any case exactly the same as that of the initiator. With his proposal, he wants to give everyone an equal wage per hour instead of the same monthly wage for a variety of hours per week. Mr. Chairman. The SGP considers the idea of a minimum hourly wage to be understandable in itself. Although it is not true that time is the only factor determining wages, it is a very important factor. At a time when time seems scarce, it is also not strange to link the minimum wage for everyone to the same number of hours. The SGP is also very pleased that the initiator is aware of the importance of putting enough time into a family and relationships. Moreover, a fixed number of hours also makes enforcement easier. But the question is, of course, what number of hours we choose. Is that 36, the average number of hours of 37.4 or 5 times 8 hours, so 40 hours? The SGP understands that the initiator does not want a wage drop for those who have a working week of 36 hours. But the initiator could of course also have protected this group in another way, namely by providing a guarantee. For example, the bill could have set the average of 37.4 hours as a standard. Why didn't that happen and have been chosen for the 36 hours? For the SGP, the increase in the minimum wage by choosing a new standard is in any case not an end in itself, but only an inevitable consequence of this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u21	There is an interruption for you from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u22	I think the answer to that makes perfect sense. Of course, the 36-hour basis has been chosen to ensure that no one gets worse. Otherwise, people who work more hours would receive a lower minimum hourly wage. That would happen if you chose a lower number, which is the SGP. I can imagine that the SGP also thinks that that is undesirable when you see how many working arms there are. And working is also a great asset in the Bible, working for your money. I would think that would be a very undesirable outcome. Does the SGP see that disadvantage of the other variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u23	I understand that I get the answer to the question I put to the initiator, from his colleague from the Labour Party. Thank you for that. I wonder if Mr Gijs van Dijk is looking at the same thing. No, we can see that for sure. That is why I say: you could do it in another way, for example by means of a guarantee. But it has to be paid for by something. The dilemma we see is that it has to be paid for by employers, who are certainly not very easy at the moment; that will be discussed shortly in the follow-up to my speech. That's what this thought is about: doesn't the shore turn the ship? In other words, are we going to have less work because employers can't bring this up? There's that dilemma for me. But the dilemma that Mr Nijboer is setting out and that he is trying to tell me, of course, is something I can clearly see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u24	In conclusion, however, would the SGP not be in favour of reducing minimum hourly wages on the basis of contracts that are larger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u25	Well, not necessarily. You have to prevent people from going backwards, but you can also look at that differently than just by setting the number of hours to 36. I am therefore very happy to look at what the initiator indicates and what comes from the cabinet. Well, of course we're gonna weigh that. So it is not a settled matter for me, but I think it is a very difficult dilemma, which obviously has several sides. That is what I am making here. Shall I continue with my speech, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u26	Well, I'd love to. We're here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u27	Exactly. That's why. I still have some time left. It is, of course, very nice to have good ideas in Parliament, but I actually thought: that is not enough, because those good ideas must also come at the right time. And if you look at this time now, perhaps there is no more unfortunate moment than now, in the current crisis, for the introduction of this bill. A year ago, the situation was very different and in the future, hopefully, the situation will be different. However, while the government now supports all kinds of schemes that support employers in, among other things, wage costs, this bill increases labour costs further. I frowned my eyebrows a bit, I must say, because the initiator does not want to be slowed down by the corona time but wants action as soon as possible. In these exciting times, the legislator cannot just refer to a planned evaluation to see how it turned out in the future. Why is support left behind if we know in advance that employers would face additional burdens in the current difficult circumstances? Mr. Chairman. The SGP is also not satisfied with the initiator's reference to the CPB's macro estimate. As politicians, we are also responsible for the effects on concrete employers and sectors. We are also getting a lot of concrete signals from them. How, for example, does the initiator respond to an 11% increase in wage costs in mushroom cultivation? Is it acceptable to confront education, where there is a 40-hour working time, with burden increases rather than with investment? And should we allow the already heavily affected catering industry, which has relatively many employees with minimum wage, to swallow an even bitterer pill in these times? However, the SGP expects a very clear response to these concrete questions, which represent only a small part of all responses from employers. Mr. Chairman. I started my story with Matthew 20 and the surprising end of the biblical story I wouldn't want to remember you at the end of my contribution; you understand that. Jesus teaches us that it doesn't work the same way in the Kingdom of God as it often does in the labour market. Not the performance, but the receiving is central. God doesn't make himself dependent on our achievements in doing good to people either; fortunately. That's a message for all people, with or without the minimum wage. At this time, too, this is an essential message, even if this legislative proposal cannot now be implemented as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Palland of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. I too would, of course, like to begin by congratulating and thanking Mr Gijs van Dijk for submitting the legislative initiative proposal and answering the questions raised in the written round. This also applies to his support that is present here. Mr. Chairman. "At the end of your wallet, you'll have a month left." It is a clever saying, but it also reflects a wretched reality that affects many households in the Netherlands. Initiator Gijs van Dijk shows that his intention is to do something with his own initiative proposal for workers who earn the statutory minimum wage but do not have enough income to make ends meet. That's only commendable. More than a year ago, we had a debate on Mr Jasper van Dijk's own-initiative paper. A few months later, Mr Gijs van Dijk's own-initiative proposal followed. At that time, a year ago, the Netherlands was doing very well economically. Unemployment was historically low, the labour market was tight and domestic product grew. We also saw that collective bargaining wages were slowly increasing again. But by now, Corona has turned everything upside down. Can the initiator comment on what effect corona has on this bill? Does he think that this bill is still the right way to achieve its objectives? At the same time, we saw that by far not all Dutch people benefited from these favourable figures. Several groups have not yet noticed economic growth in their pockets. They'll have a month at the end of their wallet. That was and is a concern that the CDA shared and also shares. Mr. Chairman. A debate on a fair and appropriate wage and poverty reduction is about more than just the level of the statutory minimum wage for the CDA. It's also about living wages and relief, so that you get more of your pay, and about reaching target groups that have it the hardest. It also affects the link now with the surcharges, the system which is now being reconsidered. The CDA would therefore like us to look more broadly at solidarity and justice in our labour market and wages rather than just explaining this measure. When it comes to poverty, we look at the social minimum, which is currently equal to the level of welfare benefits. The CDA sees that this minimum is not appropriate in all cases, which means that people, especially families with children, are affected. We wonder how this minimum has developed in recent years, whether it is still appropriate to cover the costs of households in 2020 and whether we should not update or revise the way it is set. I would like to ask the consultant, the Minister, for a response to that. The recent review of the statutory minimum wage concludes that no factors have emerged which make a special adjustment to the statutory minimum wage desirable. The causes of an increase in the number of working poor appear to be out of reach of the wml. The Council of State is also critical of Mr Van Dijk's proposal on this point and notes that there is insufficient basis for the present proposal to address this problem. The initiator states that he does not agree with the Council of State on this point. Does he wish to respond once again to this point and also to the coherence with our wider system of tax measures and surcharges? I would also like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk's proposal has a positive effect on the purchasing power of workers who now earn the minimum wage and work in sectors where normal working hours are higher than 36 hours a week. On the other hand, employers' organisations are concerned about what this means for wage costs, especially in sectors where many workers deserve it. This certainly applies to the short and medium term when the effects of the corona crisis are manifest. Mr Stoffer mentioned that earlier. Does the applicant expect employers to be more reluctant to take on staff because of the higher wage costs due to a substantial increase in labour costs? What impact does this have on the number of jobs and employment? And I would also like to hear the Minister's views on this as an advisor to the Chamber. It is precisely in this corona time that it is important for the CDA to keep people where that can work. The CPB report on employment policy shows that an increase in the statutory minimum wage with the associated benefits leads to a reduction in employment. The CPB report shows that the Netherlands scores relatively high with respect to the absolute minimum wage compared to other Western countries. A further increase in the statutory minimum wage will have to be paid by someone on the left or right. Is the applicant not afraid that this will cost jobs or that employers will charge the higher costs in prices for products and goods and services? Mr. Chairman. The initiator has added an evaluation clause to the proposal. Should this evaluation show that raising the minimum legal wage has negative effects on certain sectors, the initiator states that accompanying policies can be introduced at that time. What is the initiator thinking about? Can he give us some concrete examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u30	One moment. There is an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u31	I fully understand the emphasis that the CDA colleague places on job retention, even in a crisis. I think we all share that, whatever political conviction we have here in the Chamber. Mrs Palland mentioned the fact that in absolute terms the minimum wage is relatively high. That seems right to me, but if you look at the ratio to the median wage that is earned on average in many other countries, you can see that the Netherlands is relatively low. That is also a relevant factor. Shouldn't you consider both points when you make a choice? Does Mrs Palland recognise that international literature shows that, as long as you keep the median ratio well and do not go too far, the impact on employment is of a totally different order than we have ever thought in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u32	It is certainly true that on that list we score lower than the median wage. I really think that's a point of interest. The question is whether it does not have more to do with income inequality than we say: we are tackling poverty at the bottom of the legal minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u33	In addition to poverty and the link with the surcharges I have already mentioned in an earlier debate, the question also arises: does working pay enough? The difference is big. In the Netherlands, we have to do more and more as a politician and as a government to keep income inequality about the same. We can do that with more and more hard work. You could also say: if you bring the minimum wage a little closer to the median wage, you can do so without major employment effects. This is evident from the accounts of the Central Planning Bureau, and not just from this initiative law. It could also contribute to a little more equality of opportunity and guaranteeing income equality, which the CDA also attaches importance to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u34	Sure. It is true that these employment effects are limited, provided that the link with benefits is abandoned. That was evident from the report just before the summer. But I do not think that is what the initiator is trying to do, at least not with a follow-up to this initiative proposal, because here he is somewhat letting her go. You said yourself it's about what's left of it. Can you make a living with that? I also heard the example of Mr Van Dijk, who said that more and more people have to work together to get by. That also affects our tax system. In that respect, my colleague Pieter Omtzigt yesterday made it clear that people who are single-earned but have a partner and children, for example, are net less than those who deserve the statutory minimum wage. It is precisely in the tax system that we have strange incentives to look at. Only raising the statutory minimum wage does not provide sufficient answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u35	Finally, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u36	Yeah, finally. I understand the focus on preventing job losses. We all care about that. I get the whole discussion about breadwinners versus two-earers. I hope, however, that we will not abolish the tax incentive that works. In the past this was often the result of the attention the CDA asked for for breadwinners. But let's open our eyes to that. We're gonna have to get that glove together. But I hope that we can also look at this openly as far as the CDA is concerned. I find it rather complicated that the government has to intervene more and more and more with tax matters, because in the primary income distribution, between the minimum wage and the median wage, the income gap is growing. Then we do that as a government, but I think we should really have a discussion here about whether the primary income distribution should also be fairer. I hope that the CDA will also keep that open-minded view when dealing with this bill and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u37	Sure. I share Mr Van Weyenberg's view that working should pay off. That open look is definitely there. I just want to say that it is indeed wider. That is what I actually taste in Mr Van Weyenberg's story. This discussion on the legal minimum wage is not a taboo for us either, but we want to place it in a broader perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u38	Then there is another interruption for you from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u39	I do not quite follow Mrs Palland's speech very well, so I would like to ask for a more detailed explanation. In the first part she says that this does not solve the issue of the working poor; respond to it. Of course, this bill is not the only solution. I agree with her directly. But it does help; we can't deny that, can we? If you go from €9.44 to €10.49 per hour, that is substantial money. You'll get more in your hand, even if you count the tax system. On the other hand, she says: ho, ho, ho, ho, soon companies will not hire people and everyone will become unemployed! What is it? Is Mrs Palland concerned that a higher minimum wage will lead to lower employment? That is actually a very outdated idea, because the CPB comes back to it, the IMF comes back to it and the OECD comes back to it. Or does she actually think that much more needs to be done to working poor people and is this a step towards solving that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u40	Indeed, more needs to be done than just looking at raising the legal minimum wage. You're saying it's an out-of-date insight. That's right. There have been new insights that imply that the effect is smaller than we thought. Of course, this is based on the decoupling of benefits. That is also a fundamental point that we cannot simply put aside. It is not only the observation that the effects on employment are less than expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'm still trying to understand what the CDA's reasoning behind this bill is. You can see here that working is going to pay more. That is what the CDA wants and that is what most parties in this Chamber want. You can see that this increases the security of life of people with a larger contract, 38 to 40 hours, at minimum wage, but that the wage building would also be increased further. Mr Jasper van Dijk also pointed out this. Isn't that just a good thing? Shouldn't that appeal to the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u42	There are undisputed advantages to the bill. Our hesitation is that this is a relatively small measure. In terms of target group, he only affects those who now work more for the minimum wage than those 36 hours. So you don't hit everyone with it and you don't bring everyone forward. In addition, we have doubts about the timing, what the effects are now, in the corona crisis. There was another argument, but that slipped my mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u43	After all, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u44	The big political question is whether this is the right direction. We immediately admit that nobody in the Chamber claims that this is going to solve the poverty trap or the problem of the working poor, but it is a step in the right direction. I also agree that it does not affect everyone, although I do think that the wage building will be increased further. The CPB and other studies also point to this. The effect is therefore wider than just the people with the contracts. But is this the side of more protection for people who work for small incomes who choose the CDA? Or does Mrs Palland say: well, it's a corona crisis and we're doing right-conservative again and pulling our hands off it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u45	We're not pulling our hands off anything. I liked Mr. Jasper van Dijk's hand delivery, his last quote from that beautiful booklet we all received: we need the middle parties here. And that is precisely the link with employment. If we can maintain it, you'll find us in that search by your side. It concerns both the impact on employment, particularly at this time, and the impact of this measure on all... It seems like a small, sympathetic step, but it does have big consequences, also for a lot of other laws. When I read between the lines, the initiator doesn't want to disconnect with the benefits. He does this partly with the reference monthly wage in the proposal now. It affects something like 26 laws, and I can't see the consequences of that. That is also a question for the initiator. Although this seems to be a nice and positive step, we have doubts about the timing of this proposal and we think that we should look more broadly. Moreover, the impact of this small measure on all these other aspects is not yet fully clear to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u46	Let's talk about the timing. Mrs Palland is calling in the corona crisis, but for me that is precisely a reason to make extra haste with steps. We already had the situation that the number of homeless has doubled over the last ten years, while the number of millionaires has increased substantially in the Netherlands. There is therefore an increase in the division, which only increases by corona. Is that not precisely a reason for Mrs Palland to make extra haste with an increase in the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u47	This affects the broader discussion that you are also working on with your own initiative paper. It does not only affect the normal working hours of 36 to 40 hours. It is now left to the collective bargaining parties to limit this to 36 hours and to choose one basis for that. That's ahead of us now. This certainly has a positive effect for that target group, a limited target group, but it also has disadvantages. We still have our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mrs Palland cited the corona crisis to stand on hold, as it were; sorry for English. I ask her: isn't the corona crisis just a reason to hurry up to combat inequality? Corona is called the "contrast fluid" of society. The dichotomy, the inequality, becomes extra obvious by it. Isn't that a reason for the CDA to take steps, together with other parties, to combat this inequality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u49	Sure. We are talking about the inequality that we see in the labour market, the current blows to vulnerable people in the labour market, especially in flex jobs, and youth unemployment, which we also see rising very rapidly. There is certainly a challenge and a challenge. The question is whether this bill is now taking the right step. I have my doubts about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u50	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it for a moment: the legislative proposal provides for a change to the wml and, as a result, changes to 29 other social security laws. The initiator did not address the question of its impact in the written round. Is it possible that the amendment to one or more of these 29 laws will also have adverse effects? Think, for example, of the link with the AOW. Mr. Chairman. We do not have the budgetary impact of EUR 327 million per year in the CPB transfer. This concerns wage costs subsidies, LIV and Youth LIV, which are included in Mr Van Dijk's proposal. There is no cover for this in the proposal. The note following the report states that the initiator would like to have an exchange of views with the Chamber on this matter. But can the initiator also indicate how this could be financed and what choices he makes for its coverage? Finally, Mr President. Mr Gijs van Dijk states that the basis of the initiative proposal is that there are now many workers who deserve the minimum wage and who do not have enough income to get through it. The CDA Group considers the theme of "coming by" to be very important. We also attach great importance to the fact that this is being looked at widely in committee. But we have several questions, as you have noticed. Is this initiative proposal based on the wml of a 36-hour working week the appropriate answer, for example when it comes to reaching the target group, the employment effects, etc.? We are also looking forward to the answers to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you very much. Oh, excuse me, there's another interruption for you. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u53	The argument of the corona crisis is explicitly used by the CDA, but you can use it in two directions. You can say: companies are having a hard time right now, so the workers should not get a raise. You can also say: workers are having a hard time now, their jobs are under pressure, living is difficult, their partners are losing their jobs, so it is right now that protection must be increased. You might as well reason both ways. I would say that's actually not so relevant. This is a fundamental law on how to view the minimum wage and how to judge it. Wouldn't it be better if you didn't make that argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u54	Well, you can change your mind about that, too. You ask: should workers' protection not be raised? This is, of course, exactly what we are doing with the emergency packages: we are trying to maintain employment by subsidising employers who go directly to the workers. That's how we keep the jobs. They still have to cover 10%, or even more, of wage costs themselves. If we put such an increase in wage costs on the other hand because of the increase in the statutory minimum wage, you may wonder whether this does not lead to job losses and the early retirement of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS welcomes Mr Gijs van Dijk's proposal to achieve a uniform, fairer and more transparent minimum hourly wage as a basis for a socially acceptable existence. A higher living wage, that's what it's all about at the heart. We think it is only logical that everyone should be entitled to the same minimum remuneration for every hour worked. Unfortunately, because of the current system of setting the minimum wage, this is not the case. The Netherlands is one of the few countries that does not have a statutory minimum hourly wage. 50PLUS agrees with the applicant that the increase in the minimum hourly wage to which the legislative proposal may lead is, in principle, justified at a rate of up to 11%. After all, the minimum wage has fallen steadily behind average wages and collective wages over the last few decades. The purchasing power of workers who earn the minimum wage has not increased in recent years. There is a growing group of working poor; that has just been mentioned. This also applies if they have a full job. They often can't make ends meet. A higher wage reduces dependency on supplements and subsidies and facilitates the combination of work and private life. It can also lead to higher labour productivity. A transparent and uniform legal hourly wage is very important in this respect for the control and enforcement of correct remuneration. It can, as I said, create a better balance between work and private life. In our view, these are many advantages that we see in this legislative proposal. We are also curious about the vision of the initiator on the downside of the bill and the possible disadvantages that there are. Can the author address the question of normal working hours to which the Labour Foundation refers in its comments? Can he confirm that there will be no interference with the free negotiation of collective bargaining parties with regard to that normal working time and that the legislative proposal will not lead to precedent? We also ask the author to address the potential strong wage increases in sectors where people deserve the minimum wage and where a working time of 38 hours applies. Will this, where there really is an increase of around 11%, not lead to a loss of employment and less participation of vulnerable people at the bottom of the wage building? Indeed, that is all the more so now that the corona crisis is under way and certainly after it has ended. So please give me a detailed explanation. We also ask the petitioner to consider the impact of a higher minimum hourly wage on the further wage building, productivity growth and economic growth. We understand that the petitioner expects that the introduction of a minimum hourly wage in the Netherlands will also slightly increase wages just above the minimum. Our question is whether this will be the case. 50PLUS sees this bill as a step in the right direction. However, the legislative proposal will have little effect on the group that already has a working week of 36 hours. 50PLUS considers that more is needed, namely an increase in the statutory minimum wage and related benefits. We have made proposals for this before, and we will continue to do so. 50PLUS very much appreciates the fact that the applicant has added an evaluation clause to the legislative proposal at our request. We think that's important. We believe it is important that when it is introduced, the impact on businesses, the economy and the people who earn that minimum hourly wage should also be taken into account. If necessary, it will be possible to examine whether accompanying measures are still needed after the law enters into force. According to research, raising the minimum wage does not have much impact on employment. That's just been mentioned. Is this also the case if the existing minimum wage is now relatively high, as in the Netherlands? In this respect, too, we consider the evaluation clause to be important. Will the author be able to comment on this? 50PLUS supports the applicant's view that the minimum wage should, as a rule, remain linked to the AOW and welfare allowance. This is necessary to maintain a decent income for many people. It is wise, however, that the harmonisation of the minimum hourly wage does not in itself lead to an increase in the reference minimum wage, so that there is no effect of the legislative proposal in itself. We reaffirm once again the urgent need to increase AOW and other social benefits in a general sense. This is urgently needed to combat poverty among people who have to live on sole assistance or AOW. What else does the initiator intend to do in this respect? What increase does he consider desirable and justifiable and how does he intend to achieve this? Doesn't he find it undesirable with 50PLUS that people with a benefit or only AOW and a minimum pension depend in practice on numerous supplements, subsidies and municipal minimum benefits to get a living income? What does he think should change to take the benefit recipients and the AOW'ers to a more liveable standard income? Can the initiator go into this again? Finally, 50PLUS welcomes this proposal, as we have already said. It is a courageous and practical step towards a structurally higher minimum wage that the petitioner rightly describes as a living wage, so a wage that you can just live on and live on. On this point, we are also looking forward to the SP's initiative legislative proposal. Although the timing of the economic crisis may not be optimal, we fully support the principle that we have supported in recent years with proposals to increase the minimum wage. 50PLUS believes that people should simply be able to get around the basic wage, a benefit or an AOW without a mix of bonuses, subsidies, municipal minimum schemes, minimum passes and other patchwork. We think that's a form of civilisation. It is for this reason that we have launched our proposal for a radical simplification of the tax system in the form of a personal discount. We hope that in the near future we will receive support from advocates of a higher minimum wage and others in the Chamber. Please consider the author. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u57	Thank you. I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much appreciation for the efforts of Mr Gijs van Dijk. A solid piece of work. It's good to see that the PvdA attracts and cherishes its social roots. My group is therefore very pleased with the scope of the legislative proposal. A minimum statutory hourly wage has major and structural advantages. It makes the statutory minimum wage fairer, more insightful and more modern. The Netherlands still has a minimum wage per month as one of the few EU Member States, but not per hour. There are differences by sector, because the hourly minimum wage depends on the normal number of hours that are considered full time in a sector. It is a good step if the legal minimum hourly wage is laid down in the law. Then everyone has the minimum right to the same remuneration for every hour worked, and also the controllability greatly improves. The bill also provides for an increase in the statutory minimum wage by basing the minimum wage on a 36-hour working week, rather than a 40-hour week. My group is in favour of an increase in the legal minimum wage, because we have seen more and more in recent years that people cannot make ends meet when they simply have a job. Colleagues have also mentioned this. In our time, where there is so much stress and fuss anyway, you might ask yourself whether you don't want to standardize with a 36-hour work week, because in our overcrowded lives there is only so little room to see each other and/or to do volunteering or cloak care. The image of the family that breakfasts together at the kitchen table in the morning already evokes almost the same nostalgic feelings as the song "Longs my father's garden path." Apart from these reflections, I have a number of questions for the author of this bill. First of all, the timing of the legislative proposal and its consistency with the discussion on the supplement scheme. In December, the Bruins/Van Weyenberg motion was adopted, calling for the abolition of the maled system of allowances. This appeal is now also embraced by this cabinet. The Christian Union is also coming up with a proposal for a thorough revision of the tax and surcharge system. The debate on the minimum wage is linked to this, as also explicitly mentioned in the Bruins/Van Weyenberg motion. I therefore think it is important that we look fully at people's purchasing power, especially at the basis of the labour market. Does the initiator share this approach? How does he view the timing of this proposal? Some warn about the employment effects of this proposal. You just had an extensive debate with Mrs Palland. Some say it will reduce employment or lead to redundancies. How does the initiator weigh the balance between living wages and people's job opportunities in the labour market? To what extent does he rely on the models and payments that are usually used for this in politics? Can he say anything about the reliability of the economic laws that some almost automatically quote on this subject? Finally, Mr President, a question on the financial consequences of the initiative law. The legislative proposal has an impact on the budget of 330 million, in particular by linking it with other arrangements. I don't see any cover for this in the bill. How does the initiator view this budgetary task? At this time of billions of aid packages, 330 million may not seem much, but it is soon 100 wheelbarrows full of 50 notes. I would like to receive from the author a response and a possible solution or at least the confirmation that my calculation of 100 wheelbarrows is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u59	Well, that's an exciting task! We're gonna sit down for that. Yeah, I feel challenged! Thank you. I call Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u60	Thank you, Mr President. You will not be surprised that the PvdA Group is enthusiastic about this bill. That's for three big reasons. First of all, the number of working poor, the number of people who do work but have difficulty getting around, in the Netherlands but also internationally increases significantly. It's kind of hard to make ends meet when you're earning around minimum wage. That has to do not only with the minimum wage, but also with the rents, which we had another debate about yesterday here in the Chamber. All in all, this makes it very difficult to live on a minimum income. We are in favour of every step that helps to facilitate this, to have a little certainty in life with a living wage. This is a step that way. On the one hand, you can say that it is a rather limited step. Because if you already have a 40-hour contract, nothing changes. On the other hand, you can also say that if you now have a contract for 36 hours for the minimum wage, your hourly wage goes up by more than €1. Well, that's some serious money. That is €40 in the week and €160 in the month. You have to pay a little tax on that, but you soon get to about €120 in the month. That's substantial money. It is therefore not the case that this law is meaningless. In addition, the impact on other wages is added. This is also apparent from international studies. If you raise the hourly wage, it will also continue to work in the rest of the wage building. So it has a broader effect. I am in favour of this law, but I point directly towards SP, GroenLinks and 50PLUS that more is needed than this. That doesn't change the fact that I think this is a very good step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u61	I am indeed very pleased with this initiative, but a lot of people say: if I make more money, it will be at the expense of my care allowance and then I worry that I will have to pay it back later, just like the rent allowance. We're working on all kinds of patchwork to actually give people a living income. We have just been told that in addition to D66 and 50PLUS, the Christian Union is also going to do something about taxes. Can we expect that from the PvdA? Can people also expect you to find a solution, perhaps in the form of a negative tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u62	Of course, we will make proposals in the electoral programme to revise the supplement scheme. We also supported the motion of D66 and the Christian Union to put an end to that and to give more certainty. In fact, I do not think that the minimum wage is something that is being done a little bit to improve the quality of life. It is a fundamental principle in our social security system, in which we are trying to improve it. I do not think that the remarks made by Mrs Van Brenk at the beginning, such as 'we are trying to get things together with strings and things', are appropriate to this issue. The minimum wage really lays a foundation under what you earn as a working person. We must nurture that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u63	Sure, sure. I also think that we should cherish that. I think that the link with the benefits and the AOW, which means that as a basis you have the minimum wage and that all benefits are linked to it, is a very important thing. As far as we are concerned, that should never be allowed to happen. My concern is that a lot of people think: it's nice that something comes up, but on the other hand something goes off again. I think that's what I'm worried about. So I would like to ask the PvdA whether she is going to stop her energy in that connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u64	Of course, because the supplement system is completely stalled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second argument. It is often said that a higher minimum wage really damages employment. This has also been reflected in the debate today. That's a very easy argument. You say employers hire fewer people and it's not gonna be okay. But that argument is actually really published, as you would say in English. Extensive international research has been carried out by the OECD, the IMF and authoritative labour economists. It says that that argument really doesn't pay off. I would like to say it even more strongly: I think it is disruptive for society if you do not let people in piled jobs get away with their money, as is customary in the Anglo-Saxon countries, in America. I think it'll even cost money in the end. In fact, I do not even think that it costs money, but I do think that it costs money in the end. People can't afford health insurance anymore. People don't get around anymore and they end up in debt and in poverty. Look at how much that costs and what kind of shit that's gonna give you. However, I believe that, in a welfare state, in a rich European, western country, we should simply be able to ensure that people can live off a job. That's what the minimum wage is for. That's too low now. This is a step in the right direction. For some people it is 11%; that is a step. For other people it is 4%; that is a step. That is why it is so important to support this law. It is not for nothing that even American states are now introducing a minimum wage, I also say in the direction of the SGP. That's not for nothing. That is also because they have become convinced that it is no longer possible if you do not offer a minimum level of protection. In the Netherlands the specific problem ofzzp'ers is added. The Minister has his hands full to maintain a bit of a minimum wage there. It's not really a do. Mr. Chairman. The third argument is enforcement. That is not necessarily the most important argument, but I am sure that at some point in the Chamber there will be talk of one side or the other. Of course, it's not a job for the Labour Inspectorate... well, they do, so it's a do-over to after every contract, after every collective agreement... You have contracts for 38 hours, you have exceptions, you have contracts for 39 hours, you have leave days, and I know what these collective agreements are like. It is much clearer if you just have one minimum wage and if you can check that it is maintained. It therefore becomes much clearer forzzp'ers which hourly wage they should ask for at least. Of course, there's got to be a raise on that. So that's not the $10.49. But with that we set a much clearer standard. That is certainly a positive outcome. It is not the primary objective of this law, but it is a positive outcome. You also see for a reason that minimum hourly wages are very common internationally. Mr. Chairman. It's my colleague. So you always have to be a little limited in the compliments. When we all get together so warmly, you don't always get as happy as you listen to it. But my compliments for the work that has been done and also for Elwin Wolters, who has done a lot of work in support. I am also curious to see what the Minister's position is on this bill, because when I hear it like that, it gets pretty exciting. The party that can decide in this discussion, the PVV, is unfortunately not here today. But if I count the proportions so little, then this law might well make it. So it also matters whether the Minister says "if the Chamber votes for it, then the Cabinet will execute it," or whether he says: I am not signing my signature. After all, we have a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u68	By the way, Mr Nijboer forgot to thank Mr Asscher, because I think he also partly made the law but was not allowed to file it in 2017. I have a question about the Minister's contradiction. Isn't it just unbelievable that, when the Chamber passes a law, the Minister refuses to implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u69	Sure, but I can see that not everyone in the coalition is saying the same thing. I would be very much in favour of the Minister saying: well, I am positive about that, I am encouraging the Chamber, I am giving the 'judgement Chamber'. That always matters in these discussions. I do not need to make that clear to Mr Van Weyenberg as Vice-President of a coalition party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u70	No, but Mr Nijboer mentioned whether a law would be signed. I think that's a whole different order of things. My line is simply that I would find that completely unimaginable if Parliament were to say so, especially on more economic issues. So it was more of a state-law remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u71	Oh, okay. So I asked him in his opinion and if he would put his signature underneath. Of course, the portal is in judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u72	We're all gonna see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u73	A fine speech by Mr Nijboer. I would almost say: toilet-ding can suck a dot! But no, absolutely right, because it's a good bill. But it's also a start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u75	I think that's what we're finding out together. Then, I think, the question is also justified: what is the Labour Party's position on the further steps towards raising the minimum wage? How do you feel about our proposal to go to €14?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u76	The PvdA strongly supports a further increase in the minimum wage, also towards the €14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u77	That is a very nice and clear answer. Are we going to see that again, worked out with deadlines, justifications and coverage in the election programme? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u78	Of course. I'm an advisory member of the election programme committee. And as you know, I'm always involved in the credit transfers. So, of course, you will see the proposals for raising the minimum wage in the election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u79	That's great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u80	Could you give Mr Van Dijk a heads-up when it arrives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u81	At your service. I understand I have to send a link. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u82	I know he can be reached by app. Thank you very much. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Tielen van de VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the previous speakers. At least when it comes to compliments and appreciation for Mr Gijs van Dijk, who is defending his own initiative law here. It takes time, and it's a lot of work. That's great. One of the most important things that a well-known VVD politician once taught me is that being smart and hard work in politics is not enough to get things done. At least that's what's important is timing. Good proposals will only become a reality if you put them in place at the right time, he said. And then I must say that Mr Gijs van Dijk is completely wrong about timing. A year ago it would have seemed smart: at the start of this political season this initiative law can be discussed and then this change of law against the elections can make the A of PvdA look beautiful again. But as far as I am concerned, this is probably the worst possible timing, because Mr Van Dijk's bill has a direct impact on thousands of employers: from our largest employer in the Netherlands, the police, to the franchiser of a clothing chain or the small catering entrepreneur around the corner with a few people employed. I am referring to those employers for whom it is uncertain every day how they can keep their businesses on their feet and whether they can keep the people who work there, the employers who are working every week on a reckoning and grateful that there is some compensation in the support packages for the costs they incur to keep the jobs. This bill gives the employers the message: your costs go up further, you figure out how to handle it. Apart from the fact that the calculation is not correct, I shall come back to that in a moment. Uncertainty in this time of corona crisis, where trust is needed: confidence in the economy, confidence in government and confidence in the future. Mr. Chairman. Mr Gijs van Dijk's idea behind this bill is quite clear. After all, it is not for people who work for the minimum wage to explain how their wages are actually calculated and why it is different when you work for one or the other sector. It is a good idea for those people, for the temporary employment agencies and for our inspection SZW if this proposal makes the calculation much simpler and therefore much better to monitor. But a nice idea isn't a good bill yet. And I already named the miserable timing: why does Mr. Gijs van Dijk choose to enforce his law right now? In substance, too, the question is whether this proposal is really going to work. Because Van Dijk stays away, easily enough, from all the major issues that are connected with it. We have already mentioned a few: the passing-through of the supplement system, how work from a benefit can actually start to pay and how employers' burdens discourage fixed contracts now, to name just a few issues. I would like to challenge the author to reflect on these issues as well. And I ask him how his proposal fits in with the ongoing debates we have on a resilient labour market. I also have questions about the justification of the standard for the minimum hourly wage. Mr. Van Dijk's proposal focuses on a 36-hour working week. Does he have a fundamental reason for this, does he want to set the 36-hour working week as a standard, has he then had the impact on the economy calculated if this is the norm and can he share it with the Chamber? My guess is that the rather sympathetic standard has quite a few billions of impact. And, so I ask Mr Gijs van Dijk, is it likely to lead to job losses and even greater shortages and workload in sectors that we often talk about here in the Chamber, such as the police? What is the reason why Mr. Van Dijk has not chosen the average or the median working week as the basis, and what does he need to choose that basis, which, as far as I am concerned, can be better explained? I'd like an explanation. I would also like to know from Mr Van Dijk why he seems to think that the social partners cannot and do not want to solve this themselves. The remuneration and duration of the working week are matters agreed by the polder in the collective agreements. The Labour Foundation wrote about this in its response. But if Mr Gijs van Dijk thinks that the legislator can just interfere, does he think that the legislator can interfere with other things, such as the super-statutory obligations, payment obligations and that sort of thing? How are we supposed to deal with that? How do we deal with the things that are bound by a collective agreement? Mr. Chairman. Especially at this time, in this time of corona, laws should at least not stand in the way of the economy and employment. I already named the financial impact on employers. What are the expected additional costs for these small and large entrepreneurs, and how does the initiator expect them to meet these costs? I'm getting signals that it's gonna cost jobs. Fortunately, the CPB report says that there is hardly any job losses to be expected, but is that true when I hear the signals from the market? And what are the costs for large semi-public organisations? I already mentioned the police, but also, for example, the DOD. I would like to get this straight, and I want the initiator to understand the costs for these organisations, and how they can be covered. Or is it going to cost jobs, as I indicated? For we do not sign for the loss of jobs; that is and will remain the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u84	An interruption by Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u85	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. At first, I thought, "Shall I sit down?" But I think the contribution of the VVD is rather heavy. If I understand the VVD correctly, it is said: there are actually good elements in it, and for people at the bottom this can help, but it is now a corona crisis and everything that makes it more expensive for employers, we are not going to support that. Do I understand that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u86	You ask: "everything that makes it more expensive for employers." Well, what we don't want to sign for in the end is the loss of jobs. Also for the people who are at the bottom, as we call it, the vulnerable side of the labour market, it all starts with work. And if that is what we are discussing, I am very concerned about the way in which it is being implemented. So the question I'm asking Mr. Van Dijk is whether we should be afraid of that. And if we're afraid of that, it doesn't have our approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u87	Look, we're either at the beginning or in the middle of it or, well, at least in a very special time, and we're far from done with it. And a great deal has to be done in the eyes of my party to ensure that extra jobs are created, green jobs, because we also have a climate that we have to do, but also to ensure that people at the bottom of the labour market, who are already very vulnerable, get a better position. Do I understand the VVD correctly, that she says: we think the interests of employers are so important, and all the measures that are going to come that might cost employers a little extra money, which we are going to block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u88	I always think that the nasty thing about this kind of discussion is that it's like turning employers and employees against each other. Those workers depend on those employers for those jobs. And if we make those employers, as a matter of fact, uncertain about how they can maintain their organisation and their jobs, then it will not help the workers either. So let's not put it against each other. However, we must ensure that employers have a firm basis under them so that they can retain or rather create jobs in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u89	I fully agree with what Mr Tielen says about the importance of jobs, especially in a crisis. In this debate, I want to be a little vigilant about caricatures, such as 'orbit destroyer' or not. We always have a balance between jobs, civilisation and having a certain income security. If you are going for the maximum number of jobs, we will have to abolish taxes tomorrow, because that will make it cheaper. We must then abolish social contributions and social security, because that makes it cheaper. In the CPB model, these are more jobs. In fact, you'd have to abolish the whole minimum wage. Then people will probably come to work for much lower hourly rates than they are now. But we don't want to. I do not think Mrs Tielen wants that either. Will Mrs Tielen confirm that it is always our role, in a crisis but also when there is no crisis, to have a balance? It is about jobs, but we also attach importance to social security, which provides certain income support and basic security. Otherwise, Mrs Tielen should now propose to abolish the minimum wage. I trust that proposal will not come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u90	I'd almost say, "Now my nugget breaks." Mr Van Weyenberg starts his interruption by saying that we should not make caricatures, but then he sketches caricatures for a minute and tries to put them in my mouth. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. That's not so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u91	So I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u92	No, but I said that employers and employees depend on each other. The word "balance" has been mentioned. We have another AO on the labour market this afternoon. If the VVD stands for something in any debate you have with me here or in other rooms, it is also a question of whether employees and employers are jointly responsible for a manoeuvrable labour market. Workers must have those jobs. Employers have to provide those jobs. There's a dependency in that. At this time, employers are working hard to maintain these jobs, so that workers can stay on the job. I think that's what we need to take care of. We're putting a lot of pressure on employers to do that. Let's not exaggerate that pressure, and not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think I asked a very nuanced question. I also said that Mrs Tielen, of course, rightly calls attention to jobs, but that she gave the impression that, if you raise the minimum wage now, you are destroying jobs. The argument was, we don't do anything that costs jobs. My point was: we always balance jobs, income security and social security as politicians. It was done with such a sharpness. I always like to go with Mrs. Tielen. I fully agree with her that employers want nothing more than to keep people in employment. However, she believes with me that the balance we have always struck in a crisis is not suddenly... Otherwise, you're gonna lower the minimum wage. That is not something Mrs Tielen is looking for. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u94	No, I think you have not been able to hear that in my speech in the last five minutes. I didn't say that either. I'm just saying, and so I started: this is not the right time to continue Mr. Van Dijk's best-acceptable idea. Apart from the balance sheet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u95	Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u96	I take this 'best acceptable' as a constructive opening, which I appreciate, also for the continuation of this debate. As far as I'm concerned, we have to do that much bigger than just this bill, with all the appreciation I have for it. I'll talk about that in a minute. I think it's a shame after all... We could have done this a few years ago, when the economy did have backwinds. Then there was an initiative law of the cabinet that the party of Mrs Tielen, the VVD, had together with the Labour Party. But then this initiative law apparently died internally there. It was not an initiative law at the time, but it was consulted by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Mrs. Tielen says she likes it, but she thinks the timing is wrong. I respect that position, even if I may disagree with it. If the economy had been involved now, if we had been in the situation of perhaps one and a half years ago, would it have been positive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u97	Then in his big picture. This has already been discussed in a number of debates with the previous speakers, namely the isolated view. In addition, you do not see what it does for the supplement scheme or what it does with the link with the benefits. That is a much bigger debate. In addition, this balance is rather important. I would like to have that conversation once, but not on the basis of one of those elements, in which the rest is forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mrs. Tielen keeps an uncut right-conservative story. Of course, that can just be done as a VVD, but I do have a question that Mr Van Weyenberg asked about something that was evident from your speech. You asked: why not base it on the average hourly wage? This means de facto lowering the minimum wage for certain groups. That's the argument. Is the VVD in favour of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u99	Basically, not natural. Many have already said that we have agreements in the Netherlands that are a sign of civilisation, as someone has already called it a great deal. We have agreements on the basis of which you'll continue. My point is this. That also concerns exactly my question about the agreements that employers and employees make about how many hours you work in a week by sector and that sort of thing. They are actually being crossed by now saying that 36 hours is the norm. I just don't think that's very convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u100	I'm still trying to find out what the VVD specifically thinks about this. I understand that the VVD is in favour of a minimum hourly wage instead of what we now have, namely that depending on the contract the hours are determined, but that it does not approve of the standard. Or is she no longer in favour of hourly wages? But then I don't understand the consultation a few years ago at all for which the VVD at the time had support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u101	What Mr Nijboer is doing very well is always trying to get some sort of one-in-one discussion. I don't know what your background is, but of course it's not a one-on-one discussion. This is not a separate thing, in the sense that if we do something about the minimum hourly wage, everything is fixed. It concerns minimum wage, minimum hourly wages, supplements, the link to benefits, in short, on a very large labour market and social security issue. Mr Nijboer is now asking me to smash some of it down, but I am not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u102	This is not flattening; this is the bill on introduction of the minimum hourly wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yeah, and I'm not necessarily in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u104	No, but I understood from your argument that you said: I do feel for it, but why is it based on 37.4 hours or the average? That means a reduction in the minimum wage, and that is what I like about you, because even of the VVD, I find that unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u105	I'm not arguing that either. I'm just saying: the thought behind it, there's something to be said for it, but there's a number of questions behind it. Why this one? If it meant backwards, how would Mr. Van Dijk solve that? How do you tie it to the supplement system? The thought is nice, but as I said, a good idea is not yet a good bill. I think that is what we are debating in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mrs Tielen herself gave the lead, because she says: this is actually too limited and too small, it has to be much bigger. What can the minima in the Netherlands expect from the VVD? What's she gonna offer them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u107	What is your question to me now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mrs Tielen says that minimum wage is far too low and should be much wider and larger, looking at the hourly wage alone. I ask very simply what the minimum levels in the Netherlands, the minimum wage and those with related benefits can expect from the VVD. I see from the PvdA they're doing something. I think it's a nice step and I hope they're gonna do a lot more, but I'm gonna ask what the VVD's gonna do except reject this. What else are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u109	As far as the VVD is concerned, the following applies and none of these are new things. If you're working, you have to be able to get better. If you're gonna work more, you're gonna have to get better. Those are very easy statements that have a long way to go. I cannot now, certainly not in one or two minutes, explain how we present that as a VVD in the next election programme, but count on a lot of things that have been said today to play with us too. How do you make sure that when people work, they can just live the way they want to live without being dependent on a complicated surcharge system? In this Chamber, I think, with the support of the VVD, we have already taken a critical look at how we have built this together. How do you reform that and how do you link it to the labour market? How do you ensure that employers are made and are made available to them, even at this time, so that people can also have the job that makes them pay and so that they can earn more if they start working more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u110	Mrs. Van Brenk, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u111	Yeah, rounding it up. It is clear that there is not much to expect from the VVD. Mrs. Tielen talks about more work, but if you work full-time against the minimum hourly wage, you can't work anymore. Unless you have multiple jobs and work more than 36 hours. It is clear to me that the VVD is not a social party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mr. Jasper van Dijk has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u113	May I encourage Mrs. Tielen to be more open-minded? Because she's squeaking a lot about this law, which is just as good as it is: justified, just and further, just a first step towards real work. May I challenge you to take an example from your own Prime Minister? Last year he said, quite rightly, that the only thing that is rising on the labour market is wages at the top; it is time for wages on the workplace to rise. Then you automatically get to the minimum wage, the only wage politically controlled. Why don't you be a little more generous and just say: this is a good law and we're going to see how we can help people in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u114	I say the thought behind it is good, but the timing is bad and it's not considered in its entirety. For us, this is not enough to just say: yes, we are going to do that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u115	I can't believe this. You're really missing an opportunity here. The ball is on the dot; shoot him, I'd say. But so far, you're incredibly close. There are hundreds of thousands of working poor in the Netherlands, "working poor" as it is called. That doesn't fit with the Netherlands and I don't think that fits with the VVD either. This relatively small bill is a good step to put an end to it. Just back that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u116	There are also a lot of small employers who think every day about how they make it to the end of the week, whether they can keep the contracts of those few people they employ. These employers provide the largest number of jobs in the Netherlands. These employers are not waiting for us to say from this Chamber with the blue seats: go, your wage costs are going up and you can see how you are doing it. You can't separate that from each other. I think you should give those employers some space to get them out of this crisis. That's why I'm not just gonna stand by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u117	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u118	Finally, Mr President. The VVD is also averse to financially uncovered ideas. I read that there is a hole of 330 million euros. Mr. Bruins said those are ten wheelbarrows full of money, I believe. At least it's 6,000 kilos in 50-pound notes. We'd been doing the math together. You can do very good things with that in itself. How does the PvdA plan to cover this hole? 'Cause that's what we should be thinking about. And I am not clear how Mr Van Dijk's comments on the low-income advantage, the LIV, relate to the agreements we made in the pension agreement. We agreed that employers would make a proposal to reform LIV, and it seems that it is now being pushed through. Please provide a clear explanation from the initiator. I would also like to know what the Minister thinks about that. Mr. Chairman. The gap between a good idea and a convincing proposal can be bridged by good timing and an overall picture, and I do not have that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u119	Thank you. I call Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that, as far as I am concerned, there is no more beautiful weapon in the parliament's arsenal than the weapon of the initiative law, in which we, as the House of Representatives, often do the very labour-intensive, but wonderful work for a legislative proposal. I've been able to do it myself a few times in box K. My compliments, then. Today, with Mr Gijs van Dijk, the support and the minister in his role as adviser, I will always get used to the idea of the initiative law. I'm delighted to hear that. I'm curious if there's gonna be any more. I've first seen the initiative law around the payroll. I remember that. Now there is this initiative legislative proposal. It is two plans which I think were already in the previous cabinet, but which were not allowed to go through then. So I am curious if any more plans have remained in the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, on which we can expect an initiative law from the PvdA, because then I can just start the preparations. I'd like that. So perhaps Mr Gijs van Dijk can light up a little bit of the shutter. But, Mr. Chairman, no kidding. This is very good and it is also a very good debate. This is about very fundamental questions. These are debates that we may not have enough in this Chamber. I also mention the whole fundamental discussion about how you look at the role of the government and the social partners. So I always like this kind of debate, because it goes to the heart of how we, as politicians, want to organise and shape society. Mr. Chairman. In fact, the proposal for an initiative is divided into two elements. I'll start by treating them separately. Firstly, we now have a minimum wage based on a monthly amount. This means that it is different per hour for a collective agreement with a 40-hour working week than for a collective agreement with a 36-hour working week. In practice, that just creates real problems. The SZW inspection cannot maintain the collective agreements in the Netherlands. This is what the social partners themselves do. I get that, too; that's pure. But at the minimum wage, the government enforces, because that's a law. And that's hard to do in practice. This is also apparent from the information we have been given on this subject. So that we want to get to a uniformation, is very sensible. There is no discussion about this, as the social partners agree. It becomes more complicated when the question is asked how high that should be. I'll get to that in a minute. But I think it's very sensible to standardize. "Long overdue," I'd almost say. This has been taking place for far too long and is also becoming the subject of increasing debate. In companies where it's all tightly regulated, it's all obvious. It is, of course, right to ensure that we make it difficult for those elements of the labour market where it is gray from time to time, where the inspection needs to look where grey turns black and there will have to be intervention. So much support for that part of the initiative law. Then, of course, the second question is: how high do you set the minimum wage per hour? You could say I'm just basing it at 40 hours. But that would indeed be a significant income drop for a lot of people. As far as I am concerned, this initiator is quite rightly not in favour of this. You could have chosen the average. Then it'll be 37,4, and then it'll be on average good for everyone. Then there are people who are making some progress, but also people who are potentially falling back on it. Mr Nijboer, among others, has just spoken about this in an interrupting debate. I do have a question about this: how big is the risk? For those who could go backwards, and D66 does not want to do so, are those in sectors that have a 36-hour working week, where this change of law would in practice mean a lower minimum hourly wage in the collective agreement. My question is whether collective agreements in which there is a 36-hour working week are not exactly collective agreements in which very good agreements have been made with the trade union movement and where this is not going to happen in practice. So how big is that risk in practice? I agree with what the initiator does not want here, but I am still looking for the answer whether it is a small or a big risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u121	Perhaps I can help Mr Van Weyenberg a little. Of course, there are also a lot of people who do not work on the basis of a collective agreement. These are people who are simply paid the minimum wage, where it is as minimal as possible. I can imagine that these people need the protection of the minimum legal hourly wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u122	Again, I very much agree. I agree with the minimum hourly wage, but I think that is often work where at present there is no 36-hour working week. This is work where the position of the employee is probably not the strongest either. That's a question I'm asking. My thesis concerns potential losers if you went to 37.4 hours. My question is: is that going to happen in practice? Cao's with working hours below 37.4 hours are, in my opinion, generally all collective agreements that are relatively firm, with a firm position of the trade union movement. Otherwise, you wouldn't have come to a lower number of hours. So this is a question I want to ask. It may also be a difficult question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u124	The initiator chooses 36 hours. He does so for all kinds of reasons, even when it comes to 36 hours increasingly becoming the norm in collective agreements. In principle, I am not opposed to this either, but on balance this leads to an increase in the minimum wage by 3.6% on average. That is, by the way, less than in the supplement plan of D66. In our own plan, benefits also go up by half of that percentage. Then work starts to pay more, but then you also do something extra in income support for people who have to live off the minimum wage. The initiator then says on the basis of information from the CPB that this increase will have no or very limited labour market effects. I agree with him in that it is absolutely true that, in recent years, economic literature has shown, on the basis of experience in other countries, that the impact on employment is much more limited with a limited increase in the minimum wage. In doing so, the minimum wage may definitely increase, but the ratio to the median income will not exceed 60%. The CPB has also recently amended its own assessment of this issue. An increase in the minimum wage has a much more limited effect on employment than before. But you will see that, of course, with this bill, this is going to go down in very specific sectors. Can you translate such a macro sum, which is about everyone, into an initiative law that does not have an impact in many sectors, but has a serious impact in a limited number of sectors? That is also the aim, because that is where the minimum wage goes up by €1. So the answer is: referring only to the macro sums is going a little too fast for me. After all, with the initiator, I want to prevent this from costing jobs. I partly disagree with Mrs Tielen's conclusion, but she is of course right that this can have a serious impact in some sectors. I felt that the initiator was a little too easy to answer the written questions. I would therefore ask him to comment on this in detail. That is no excuse to do nothing, but we all do not want this to cost jobs in those sectors where workers generally already have a somewhat vulnerable position. I do not want to do that in a booming economy and, by the way, certainly not in a crisis. I would like more information on this. Then I have a second concern, which is actually more of a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u125	One moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u126	I have one question for Mr Van Weyenberg. He says: those are often the sectors where the most vulnerable people work. We also see very often that these sectors do not really have fantastic salaries; we always talk about these sectors when we say that we should send the workers there and the like. Isn't this proposal a particularly good point which gives us that anchor, which at least gives everyone in the Netherlands a good basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u127	My question was purely factual. In a number of sectors this leads to an increase of about €1 per hour. You know that in my own plans there is a greater increase in the minimum wage than that. My question was: do you need anything in those sectors to prevent this from costing jobs? I want to avoid, with Mrs Van Brenk, that those vulnerable workers are the victims of a law aimed at helping them. Because we don't want any of that. In this way, I found the general answer that the employment effects are actually not enough to do justice to my concern. I think that we have a broad concern that this causes people to lose their jobs in these sectors. So I'm not asking that question because I wouldn't want to, but because one of the questions is: how do you prevent people from getting hurt in that particular sector by a law intended to help them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u128	I'm just trying to find out. The work needs to be done. At least that's what I'm assuming. That work is being done. If we all say here that this is a good plan, then the hourly wage goes up. I am trying to foresee what problems Mr Van Weyenberg will have to deal with. Does he need it to be gradual, that it's an ingrowth path? I'm just gonna take a look at the point where he hesitates. I think: equal monks, equal hoods; everyone stands in front of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u129	Sure. But that can of course have effects, for example that more is done with machines and less is done with people, that the work goes to other countries or that other constructions are sought in order not to have to pay that amount, until the rules are not followed. I'm not saying that's happening, but those are the effects that can occur. That's what I'm asking questions about. Then there is a broader issue about employment effects. It is true, of course, that the Central Planning Bureau is now a lot less negative about the effects. But the CPB does say: if the increase becomes very strong, it will, of course, have very big effects at some point. I'd like to get a confirmation of that. The extent to which you allow benefits to take place also has an impact on the employment effects. I would like to hear a reflection on this in the answer given by the initiator. I think this is also relevant for the follow-up debate that we are going to have, I think. I think this is a first step, including the idea of the Labour Party, which is putting forward this proposal. Mr. Chairman. About the money, I found the answer a little too easy. The Compatibility Act says you need to find cover. I believe that an initiative law in this area always allows you to set a slightly different bar than a law of the cabinet. There is more room for the initiator, but here I still have the question to deal with. In fact, 330 million is a lot of money, so I would ask Mr Van Dijk to go into that more closely. I would also like to ask what this sum is based on, bearing in mind that on 6 July we received a letter stating that agreements have been made with the social partners to change these benefits in the area of pay. So are the sums he's presenting made on the current system or the system that's about to come? I would like some more information on that. My last question is about my greatest struggle with this law. That is that this is taking place in isolation. That reminds me a bit of a discussion I had earlier with Mr Gijs van Dijk but also with Mr Jasper van Dijk about the payroll proposals of their parties. I'm very much in favour of that, but I've always said that you have to see that in conjunction with measures to make the permanent job more attractive, as we finally did in the Labour Market Act in balance. Here I find it really difficult to do it in isolation, because for me this is an essential building block for a greater reform of the supplement system, with in the case of the D66 plan also a kind of negative income tax, which gives everyone a certain amount of money to get rid of the surcharges. As far as I am concerned, the minimum wage, which we increase far more in these plans than in this bill, is a very important building block. I find it complicated to build the house later by building the left wall now and then in the formation the right wall, and then perhaps later to discuss the roof. How does Mr Gijs van Dijk see this coherence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mr Van Weyenberg is the last speaker in this debate. If I may take stock of the situation, I actually see a lot of goodwill in all parties to work with a higher minimum wage, except perhaps with the CDA and the VVD. But keep me happy, because the election programs are still being e-mailed. But what exactly is the situation with Mr Van Weyenberg, with D66? Can he give a global indication of how well a person with a minimum wage will benefit from the D66 plan on balance? This does not have to be done with three digits behind the decimal point, but with the viewer: what is he getting better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u131	In that plan you see that we have made sure that people with the lowest incomes make serious progress and people with the middle incomes a little more. This fits in with our efforts to make the move to work truly financially more attractive. In the proposal we have presented, the minimum wage goes up by 10% across the board, the benefits by 5% and, in addition, there will be a payable negative income tax, in a slightly different form than in the plans of 50PLUS. Moreover, I am very pleased that other parties have announced their plans today, because the reason why we have presented this plan is mainly to talk about it now, to have as much material in the formation as possible to be able to deal with. Mr Jasper van Dijk, his party, does not yet have much experience of government responsibility, but I think he recognizes that these kinds of big questions in the formation often have to be solved in conjunction with each other. Once again, that copy of my plan is coming up, I say to Mr Jasper van Dijk. I think we are going to have a round table at the end of October and we are going to discuss the D66 initiative in November. I assume that we are doing that of Mrs Van Brenk's party, and I hope that there are as many other plans as possible, because that way we can make things better with each other and be as prepared as possible for the search we all share to get rid of these surcharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u132	We are ready to gain that experience, I can say to Mr Van Weyenberg. Let's go fight...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u133	Then there is still news coming out of this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u134	That's right! Let's fight for a fresh, progressive coalition without certain parties, who in turn... Right-conservative, it was said today; I liked that. A fresh, progressive coalition fighting for a higher minimum wage. But let me be clear: someone with the minimum wage in the D66 plan is improving 10%, says Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u135	The minimum wage goes up 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u136	The minimum wage goes up by 10%. For my understanding, does this mean that the person who gets it doesn't lose bonuses on the other hand? Can Mr Van Weyenberg confirm to me that it is not a cardigan pocket surgery he is about to perform?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u137	At least that word isn't completely neutral. I'm gonna turn it around. A higher minimum wage is required for the payment of supplements. And yes, then people lose bonuses, the benefits go up, the minimum wage goes up even more. People with minimum wage don't get 10% up on our plan. That's common, too. By the way, if you raise the minimum wage by 10% tomorrow, that will not happen. Then people get less fees, because that's how fees work. They're partly income-dependent. But they're making a lot of progress. Middle income and people who earn just above the minimum wage are making much more progress. You are quite right, for example, about the passage, which unfortunately is not taken into account by the CPB in the first order of my plan. The point is that a higher generic minimum wage also leads to higher collective wage rates, also a little further down in the wage building. Whether this also happens with Mr Gijs van Dijk's own initiative proposal is a question I would like to ask him, because in his proposal, of course, wages are actually rising in a specific part of the labour market. It seems to me that the upward pressure on the wage building in the Labour Party's proposal is less than in the D66 plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u138	Finalizing, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr Van Weyenberg says: a person with a higher minimum wage will not notice if he then loses the allowances. I think that is a right point, and that is precisely what you should be paying attention to. This is also important for us. So you could say that the surcharge limits will then rise with the rising minimum wage. That is the direction we are thinking of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u140	I look forward very much to the SP proposal. But one of the major problems is that, for example, if you start working against the minimum wage, the marginal tax burden increases. Sorry about the technique. What you really have left is not 100% of the higher wage, but maybe only 10% or 20%. So that's one of the reasons why we want to get rid of that surcharge system, apart from the fact that it was also one of the reasons for us all that people are really getting lost in that system right now and are therefore in very big trouble. I do not have to tell Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u141	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. I have asked questions and my main concern concerns coherence, because I actually want to do it at once and think that this building block is indispensable in dealing with the surcharges. I am very curious how Mr Gijs van Dijk sees that. Finally, Mr President. I see that Mr Gijs van Dijk likes this administrative role so well that even the choice of clothing between the Minister and Mr Gijs van Dijk is aligned this morning. You know that this coalition is keen to work with Mr Gijs van Dijk's party and, of course, with all other parties outside the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you very much. The informal part will lead to a lot of discussion. This concludes the first term of office in the examination of this initiative proposal by Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-3.u144	I have seen Mr Gijs van Dijk from time to time and I think he was eager to talk about it. The continuation will therefore take place in consultation with him at a time to be specified. We're all gonna see that. Not until then, but until 1.10 p.m. today, I'm suspending the sitting. It will then continue with a brief arrangement of work. I wish you all a beautiful day.
