ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the Air Tax Act. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance, in particular for Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u2	We start as usual with the first term from the side of the Chamber. Mr Van Raan has the floor as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is a milestone that we are going to introduce a flight tax, but it is just mouse steps in the right direction. I want to shape my contribution by explaining why shrinking aviation is necessary and why this tax fits in. In order to clarify why shrinkage in aviation is necessary, I also think it is necessary to include the Chamber in the story of aviation. This book, The Vulnerable Prosperity of the Netherlands, 1850-2050, plays an important role in this. I'll show it to the Secretary of State, too. This book came out the moment we in the Chamber embraced the Monitor Brede Welvaart. That monitor shows how to measure the prosperity of the Netherlands in the here and now, but also later and elsewhere. The book also tells something else, namely the story of what we see in a number of developments, such as aviation. Because what has once been a good idea is sometimes not. The book also discusses agriculture, but I am talking about aviation. The idea of stimulating aviation actually starts in 1944, at the end of the war. At that time it is said that aviation is good to keep peace and to bring peoples closer together. And so you need to stimulate aviation. You can see that the playing field of aviation is actually determined by safety, which has always been the case, because those things should not fall out of the sky and be brought together by peoples. A number of measures are being taken to promote aviation. It is well known, of course, that there is no more taxation on kerosene. Another example is that you cannot deny each other landing rights. If peace has just been made, it would be very strange for Russia to say to Germany: you cannot land with me. So these are all powers that have been transferred. Later that became the UN. So you can see that aviation is beginning to develop along the axes of peoples and bring security together. Gradually, as aviation grew, another component was added. That was economics. Boosting aviation was a way to stimulate the economy of countries. Bringing the thought of peoples together then disappears into the background and you see two axes emerging: economics and security. That's where the aviation's growing. At some point, around 1969, 1970... I mention 1969 for the elderly among us, because then the song of Frans Halsema came out: Buitenveldert; the DC-9. That was 1969. I see the Secretary of State recognizes it, but the young people among us recognize it a little less. That song is actually about noise pollution, I say for Mr Laçin, noise pollution at Schiphol. So you can see that there is a third component. We have economics. We have the habitat and we have the safety. From the 1970s to, let's say, the benchmark in 2015, Paris, you can see that aviation is exploding. It actually bursts out of the triangle economy, living environment and security. Actually, you have to say, that was the old playing field. From 2015 onwards, a third branch, climate, will be added. So there's going to be a new triangle. Instead of economics, living environment and security, we arrive in a new world, of climate, living environment and security. Within these limits, aviation must take place. Jan Rotmans also calls that: it is not so much an era of change as an era of change. So, for the record, we need to make sure that we're doing this, which is the mission that D66 has also been behind, to bring aviation back within the limits of climate, living environment and safety. The question is, of course, what kind of climate is a reasonable amount of emissions associated with aviation? What is reasonable in this new world of climate, environment and safety? For the climate we have a good measure, the CO tonnage. Aviation currently emits about 12 megatons. If you want to comply with Paris, you'll end up at about five megatons. So we need instruments that reduce current aviation emissions to about 5 megatons, not to mention the year 2050, in which we all need to be climate neutral. So 5 megatons about. By comparison, the aviation sector itself believes that the 12 megatons will have been reduced to 11 megatons by 2030. So the sector itself is not going to do anything, although they are writing that down in their plan Slim and sustainable. How are we going to get aviation emissions back to five megatons? There is a great deal of support for that, by the way. Recently, even today, the results of an investigation were published by the European Investment Bank among 30,000 respondents. 62% supports the withdrawal of short-haul flights. 92% rely on such a high tax on flies that the numbers are actually reduced. If we know that the amount of CO has to be from 12 to 5, what are the right instruments, what is the right price, what is the right tax to be introduced, also in the knowledge that the price elasticity for flights is extremely low? Then we'll get to the bill, Mr. Chairman. As I said in my introduction, the bill for a minimum flight tax is a mouse step in the right direction. The amounts proposed are too low. The exceptions are too broad. Additional measures, such as a kerosene tax, a CO budget, the additional burden on frequent pilots and restrictions on the number of slots available, are also lacking at present. I come to my first two questions. Does the Secretary of State agree with the statement that aviation, as it stands today, represents the old economy, living environment and safety, to the new reality in which aviation takes place within the limits of climate, living environment and safety? Does the Secretary of State agree? Does the Secretary of State therefore agree that, in addition to what he has done now, additional measures are likely to be needed to achieve that state? Mr. Chairman. The argument for introducing a flight tax is to reduce the competitive position of air traffic vis-à-vis the train and to price the social costs of air traffic more fairly, we read. This raises the question of why the cabinet then comes up with such low amounts. The amounts proposed will encourage few people to choose a more sustainable means of transport. I see the Secretary of State nodding, which makes me think he actually agrees with the Party for Animals. In addition, the prices currently being proposed are a limited reflection of the actual social costs of air traffic. The Council of State has already asked for this. If all environmental damage and tax benefits were passed on to the price, an average airline ticket would be 63% more expensive than is currently the case, so calculated Environmental Defense. The Animal Party is therefore tabling an amendment which is making the amounts very tighter. We were inspired by the British and German flight taxes, also a bit to get a level playing field, but then up. Moreover, from the principle of climate justice, it does not seem undesirable to us to impose additional burdens on the use of private jets. The Party for Animals is charmed by the call of among others Environmental Defense for a progressive flight tax. In other words, how do we ensure that the multi-pilot category is encouraged to take the train more often? It is known: 8% of kites cause 40% of flights. Could this be done by burdening them more firmly? We have tried to make an amendment, but that is technically very difficult. But we also know that it is quite possible, because it exists. So we're considering a motion to ask the Secretary of State to investigate this. I see Mr Laçin nodding; perhaps we have the same motion. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, the exceptional position of transfer passengers is very curious. After all, transfer passengers contribute very little to the economic value of Schiphol, but cause very high social costs. That is why we would also like to endorse the amendment tabled by GroenLinks, which deletes this exception. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal still contains an exception, namely for cargo in passenger aircraft. In theory, this could lead to situations where, so to speak, ten passenger seats are placed in a cargo aircraft and then no tax on cargo. The aviation sector is creative enough, we know. Perhaps the Minister of Aviation would even call it a ruse. In the eyes of the Party for the Animals, therefore, this exceptional position is very undesirable. Does the Secretary of State share the view that it cannot be the intention for this exemption to lead to the avoidance of tax on cargo and, if so, how will the Secretary of State prevent this from happening? Mr. Chairman. One more point about the attempt to make European agreements, which may still prevent this whole law from being implemented. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Animal Party that, of course, it cannot be the intention that a tariff be agreed in Europe that is lower than what we are discussing here? I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. I decide to invite everyone to go from that old idea that aviation is determined by economy, living environment and safety to that new world, in which aviation has a legitimate place, but within the limits of climate, living environment and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you for your speech. Mr Laçin is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u5	Many of the points in Mr Van Raan's speech are recognizable. We are often side by side with aviation debates, preventing further growth in aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u6	We call it shrinking ourselves. The SP hasn't joined in yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u7	That's right. I hear Mr Van Raan mention another term that is extremely important to us too, and that is 'climate justice'. In climate policy, it is important that it is fair and that the people with the smallest wallet are not hit disproportionately hard. In our view, this measure of the cabinet is nothing else. The measure provides almost nothing for the environment, nothing for the climate, nothing for noise pollution and nothing for the emission of ultra-fine dust. It's a vulgar way to bacon the state treasury. What is the final judgment of the Animal Party when it comes to all these measures and the results that I mentioned in order to ultimately vote for this law, which lacks climate justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u8	As I said, we have started by saying that they are small steps in the right direction and that there is a law that can be developed. We've given the Secretary of State some ideas to improve the law. Let's wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u9	What strikes me is that Mr Van Raan in this Chamber is the only one who is perhaps a little supported by the SGP that is for a shrinkage scenario of aviation. However, Mr Van Raan is somewhat satisfied with the proposal that is now before us and that is not even the first step towards his ideological position. Then I wonder what the Party for Animals ultimately sees as positive in this law, because it actually doesn't bring about anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u10	It is true that the Animal Party has drawn the conclusion that many parties in this Chamber have not drawn, namely that a firm contraction is the only way to ensure that aviation complies with the Paris Agreement. Again, I have indicated what we like about it; it is a small step in the right direction. We have made some good recommendations to the Secretary of State. That's what we want to wait for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u11	Really rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u12	Then I hope that the Animal Party in its final judgment on the present law does not forget the ideological position of the party itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u13	I'm sure you'd be happy to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u14	You may.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u15	Yes, thank you. Of course we do not forget our ideological principles. But that doesn't mean you can't support a law where we don't have anything right now. You'll have a button that you can turn. The height of that button shall result in a shrinkage of aviation. But I have also indicated to the Secretary of State that precisely because it is now only one button and much more has to be done, it cannot be that it remains there. I would like to give that to Mr Laçin. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you, too. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Don't be afraid: I won't finish the 20 minutes anyway. Today we are discussing for the second time a law to ensure that a flight tax is introduced in the Netherlands. The last time this happened was in July 2008. The impact of the economic crisis was so severe that the then-Balkenende IV government wanted to get rid of the tax as soon as possible. A year later, this tax fell again. In the years that followed, Schiphol grew year by year unbridled: from 386.000 flight movements in 2010 to 500,000 flight movements now. That has major consequences. Residents lie awake from the noise, social resistance to the advantage of aviation increases, never before was Schiphol's emissions as high as today, workers are increasingly affected by flex contracts and are concerned about exposure to ultraphine dust. This government now seems determined to re-introduce a flight tax in the Netherlands. If there is no European alternative before the end of the year, air passengers departing in the Netherlands will pay €7 per ticket tax and cargo aircraft will have to pay €3.85 per tonne. Result: 200 million euros for the treasury and a beautiful green image for the cabinet. Because that can make a good impression with the story that it deals with the polluting aviation industry. But anyone who goes into this law quickly comes to different conclusions. The flight tax proposed by this government is not a sustainability measure at all. It is yet another measure that accounts for so-called climate policy among those who make the least contribution to the climate problem. I will explain below why this flight tax is, as far as we are concerned, a shambles and why this type of measure is making it less and less acceptable for fair climate policy. I'll start with the green image that this cabinet wants to show itself. I would like to say here that I find that a bit scandalous. This is the cabinet that has the ambition to expand Lelystad Airport and eventually allow for 45,000 additional flight movements. To live up to that ambition, everything seems to be justified. Even if this means that environmental permits for airports are not available, environmental impact assessments contain proven errors over and over again, social cost-benefit analyses are not correct, nitrogen calculations are made just as often until the desired outcome is achieved and over 700,000 people in Overijssel and Gelderland, among others, are about to suffer huge noise pollution. It's called a good Dutch word "shipholes." This is done on the assembly line to facilitate aviation growth. Not less, but more flying is the ambition of this cabinet. Green is not the cabinet at all. Aviation is sponsored in many other ways. No major European airport is as cheap as Schiphol Airport. A complex construction has created the situation that Schiphol is at the maximum number of flight movements and is therefore scarce, but airport charges have fallen in recent years. This is a deliberate policy to ensure that Schiphol becomes attractive to airlines, often price fighters who are not so close to workers' rights and rules that we lay down here. Other policies are possible. London Heathrow is also at the maximum number of flights, but as a result the slots at that airport become more expensive and more expensive every year. Why isn't this system being dealt with, I want to know from the Secretary of State. Why do we not ensure that the law of supply and demand also applies to aviation and so airport charges increase and not decrease in the event of scarcity? Mr. Chairman. The SP wants a fair price for flying. If I fill up my car, I've paid more excise duty than KLM paid for all the kerosene she consumes. This is an example that Mr Paternotte also frequently uses. That is because in 1944 Mr Van Raan referred to this in the Chicago Convention, it was decided that aviation should be supported and that therefore no excise duty should be levied on kerosene. Or what about people who go to work daily by public transport. They pay VAT on the ticket they buy, while airline tickets are exempt from VAT. I would ask the Secretary of State, for this type of totally obsolete construction to stimulate aviation, no longer fit in with the present time. There's no other way. We can already agree bilaterally with countries on the levying of excise duty on kerosene. Why is it that the cabinet is not fully committed to this, while the talks on an overall agreement on excise duty on kerosene can continue in parallel? Mr. President, you've heard. The SP is not exactly impressed by the green ambitions of this cabinet. The flight tax that is being proposed does not cause any harm either, if it does not deal with the real polluters. Mr Van Raan also just referred to this. That real polluter is the group that flies the most, for example the business traveller. The people who fly up and down every week to, for example, London or Paris. That is 8% of the passengers who fill 40% of the flights at Schiphol Airport. These people are not going to make a flight less because of the €7 tax, which they often do not even have to pay themselves. While both London and Paris can be easily reached by train. London as of April 30th at last directly with the Eurostar. People who can already choose between the plane and the train and who still want to fly, with a tax of €7, do not suddenly go on a massive train. That also reveals all kinds of research. This tax affects those who work hard with their family after one or two years and want to save on the plane on holiday. They're gonna have to pay a couple more tens. I know that there are people here who might be laughing about the couple of tens: "that's not all that big a deal." If you look at it separately, a couple of tens isn't very much. The problem is that you should not look at individual measures, but at the coherence of all the measures taken by this cabinet. These are also the people who often live in a poorly isolated house and who are going to pay much more for their energy bill. These are faced with an increase in excise duty on their diesel car because the heavily subsidised Tesla's are not for them. Those most affected by the VAT increase on public transport and on fruit and vegetables. This while big polluters like Shell receive millions of grants. And these people can now, after all the extra costs they have to make, also cough up a flight tax if they exceptionally want to go on holiday. That is unfair policy. And that makes people angry. So angry that they increasingly opt for parties that deny the climate problem. Not so much because they think there is no climate problem, but because they are tired of having to pay each time. Because they see time and time again that different measures of this cabinet hit them hard, while the elite and the big pollutes turn it into a party with all the benefits and subsidies they collect. And blame them. While this cabinet is now taxing their holidays, they also read reports that aircraft are flying up and down empty because of the corona crisis, simply to keep their slots. It's insane that these systems are being maintained. They also read the articles on polluting biomass plants, which are subsidised by this cabinet by EUR 11.4 billion. It could all be, but their vacation would be the problem. Mr. Chairman. I would like to dwell very briefly on the freight sector. With only 3% of flights at Schiphol Airport, it accounts for around 20% to 25% of jobs. It is therefore the flights that add the most economically. But this sector has been under pressure for a long time. In recent years, the percentage of freight flights has decreased and it is very difficult to agree on the guarantee on slots for cargoes. The law now before us threatens to hit this sector hard again. There is hardly anything known about the leakage effect that this load can have. Why has the cabinet done so little research into the possible consequences of this freight tax? Is it prepared to do thorough research on this yet? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The green revolution will be just or it will not be. Policies that favour the elite time and time again and catch the masses do not work and seriously destroys the support for climate policy. The SP wants the government to go back to the drawing board with this law. Ensure that the polluting multi-flyer is addressed. Charges the almost 28 million transfer passengers who have little economic added value for the Netherlands, but are part of the problem. And make sure that the possible revenue from this tax goes to sustainability rather than it is a way of making the state's treasury worth EUR 200 million. Growth of Schiphol Airport and expansion of Lelystad Airport is indisputable for us. The aviation sector has been growing unbridled for years. It's time to deliver now. Less nuisance for residents, less emissions of CO and ultra-fine dust and real jobs with certain contracts for all those who earn their living in aviation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you very much for your speech, including the fact that you have not yet used half your speaking time. Maybe that inspires your followers. The next speaker is Mr Moorlag, who will be holding his first term on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Flying is not currently subject to excise duty or VAT and that is actually weird. Look at other forms of transport. In rail transport the passenger pays VAT on his ticket and the Dutch Railways simply pay energy tax, although the low rate for companies, but still. It is also absurd to look at citizens, citizens who simply have a central heating boiler in their homes. Heating is a basic requirement, but on the fuel of that central heating boiler there is energy tax, a storage of renewable energy and VAT. Flying is completely untaxed and no VAT is levied on it. That has to end. In the European context, the Paris Agreement has put flies out of business for a while, but there is a need to take significant steps at international level. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether he is prepared to include the Netherlands in a leading group with like-minded European countries. It is not for me to do anything to drive the public at costs or to generate revenue. This is a critical point in this law, which can, of course, also be redirected to citizens in a very targeted way. But people need to be stimulated to choose the plane less quickly. Mr. Chairman. If we want people to fly less, there must also be good alternatives. We can put the gun on people's chest and say they need to be less mobile and less flying, but people are naturally traveling. There are also good alternatives. Especially for short and medium distance flights we have HSL connections as a good alternative. The Netherlands is actually very poorly connected to the HSL network. Okay, we can go straight to London now, but Amsterdam is actually a head station on the European HSL network. I have said in other debates that Amsterdam is actually the Roodeschool of Europe. It's a little peripheral as head station on the hsl network. I know that within the building where the Secretary of State works, there is thought of an investment fund. I would like to suggest to the Secretary of State, who is not a portfolio holder, that in future debates we should consider whether we can make a system leap in rail transport and whether we can develop good alternatives to flying. Mr President, I come to the law itself. It has to raise EUR 200 million, €7 per passenger. A tax is actually a financial incentive that should stimulate people to change their behaviour. It is sometimes said that the government has three steering tools: coffee, money and rules. "Coffee" stands for poldering, "money" is just taxing what you don't want and subsidising what you do want, and "rules" is a matter of areas and prohibitions. That is how simple the government's steering mix is, but if this is a financial incentive to change behaviour while research shows that this is hardly happening, then what are the value and significance of this bill? That is a very fundamental question. There are also some absurdities in the bill. I believe that a law should also be easy to explain to citizens. Now there is simply a charge per passenger, but empty seats also cause CO emissions. It's not like a part of the plane is left behind if the plane is only half-filled. Why not tax per seat instead of per traveler? There's no remote differentiation in it either. Intercontinental flights, very distant flights are taxed just as heavily as short flights. Sometimes you have to be a little positive when there's something positive, and the advantage of this law is simplicity. It's actually very simple. But the lack of simple solutions is often that they don't work well. Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of my speech. Will the PvdA, with all the criticism we have of this law, vote against this law? No, we're not gonna do that. Good should not stand in the way of better things; so was the saying, I believe. A saying that is more familiar to me is a saying that is used in the fishing village of Zoutkamp: if there is no fish, shrimp is also fish. Or no: if there's nothing, shrimp is also fish. I'm gonna have to quote him correctly. So all in all, we support this law. It's a very small step forward. It is simply important that much more work be done at European level on a smart flight tax with a good return lock to citizens. Let me conclude with Groningen's enthusiasm: it has to go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you very much for your speech. Mr Laçin is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u21	I think Mr Moorlag is asking a very fundamental question. That's what he calls it. Actually, I did. What does this law actually do? How is this law to explain to the citizen? I actually hear the promise immediately afterwards: we are going to vote in favour of this law. I wonder what the Labour Party, traditionally also a party that stands up for the worker who does not have much to spend, will achieve with this law for those people. They work hard and have insecure contracts. They can go on holiday once a year or when it is a problem every two years, and they are now affected by a measure, when they are not really the problem in terms of climate. How can the Labour Party, which has traditionally stood up for these people, vote for this law, when it really does not mean anything to anyone and only the state treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u22	I mentioned two things. I am opposed to this, for example, to the idea of putting a gun on people's chest and levying a tax simply to make them something impossible. So I said two things. The first is that we simply need to develop good alternatives. I mentioned the high-speed line as an alternative. The second is that this law generates revenue. The law should not be profit-driven, so you can use those revenues to compensate citizens. Let me mention something that the SP and the PvdA have in common. We would very much like the energy tax on the boiler to go down. So there is a lot to talk about with me about introducing a flight tax and at the same time reducing the burden on the citizen and then in a way that will enable the people with the smallest incomes to benefit most from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u23	So the people with the small stock market are absolutely not taking advantage of this. I understand very well that Mr Moorlag is also in favour of other measures. Last week we had an evening about left-wing cooperation, in which we said together that the tax on profits should not be reduced. Saves 2.4 billion. Let us fight side by side for this and not defend here a measure of 200 million and make it more difficult, for example, for the people who have the smallest grant to go on holiday once. Let's take care of these multi-flyers, these polluters. That is what Mr Van Raan proposed, and that is what I propose. Unfortunately I do not hear that in the speech of the PvdA and I think that is a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. The latter is not true. I said that this is actually a far too simple and primitive form of flight tax. So I am in favour of it being more differentiated and of putting a heavier burden on business traffic, the multi-flyers. There the carrying capacity is usually greater. Why, then, are we going to come to Mr Laçin's question about this law? I think this is a fundamental shift. For some political movements this was almost a no-goarea for a long time. I really think that we need to make a shift by realising the price of flying and the unfair playing field in relation to other forms of energy, i.e. calling it natural gas and removing fuels for public transport. I think that is an important point of profit from this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u25	In conclusion, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u26	I have also mentioned a fair price for flying in my contribution. That's what we're here for. Only this law doesn't regulate that at all. I would therefore like to call on the PvdA, including the idea that this will hit the smallest trade fairs hardest, to reconsider whether this measure is what we both want, what our parties want. My conclusion is: absolutely not. I hope that the PvdA, with the supporters in mind, will also make that review.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u27	In my party, however, there is consensus that we should go this way. We have to get a real price for flying. Pollution is not taxed. It is true that the polluter does not pay, while people have enormous taxes on essential necessities such as natural gas to heat their homes. We're going to have to make a shift in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u28	I had Mr Moorlag's speech settled for a moment. I can only draw one conclusion: it really depends on contradictions. On the one hand, he says it shouldn't be about collecting money. That's not the point. Well, that's exactly what this flight tax is going to do: 200 million. Then he says that the 200 million must be redirected back to the citizens. Well, it just ends up in the general budget. Nothing's being rerouted. So that's just not gonna happen. Then Mr Moorlag says: we have to fly less together. At the same time, he admits that this flight tax does not lead at all to fewer flights. It depends on contradictions. So again, why the hell are you going to vote for this law? Mr Laçin also asked. Why? What's behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u29	There is a mistake in Mr Kops' reasoning. Mr Kops says that the PvdA would not want the money to go back to the citizen. We'd like that for the hell of it. It is not for nothing that there is a counter-budget when this government comes up with a budget. It is not for nothing that we, together with GroenLinks and the SP, are in favour of not letting the burden reduction continue for business. We've got a good eye for that. Mr Kops would do well to face this reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u30	What reality? Mr Moorlag's reality? All kinds of fun little schemes that aren't reality? Mr Moorlag says that the money must be channelled back to the citizen. That is not happening, because this flight tax only collects money from the citizen. The ordinary citizen, with a small scholarship, who wants to go on vacation once a year, is simply going to pay a lot more, thanks to the PvdA. You really should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u31	That's not even half a truth. Mr Kops is also well aware that the PvdA is also an advocate for issues such as reducing energy taxes and reducing its own contribution to healthcare. So there is no need to fear Mr Kops in that regard. The Labour Party has a classic eye for people with a small wallet, and that will not be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you. You, too, should be complimented for not using 40% of your speaking time. Now we are going to see how Mr Van Weyenberg will do that on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I myself was pleased with the constructive approach taken by Mr Moorlag, whose input is very similar to mine. It's a good start. There is always something to be desired, but with this law we have done the flight tax. I have to say that I hope that people did not pay for the left-wing measurement next week, because this time this cooperation lasted for a short time with a week. So far, I've seen you fly in each other's hair. But that is entirely up to you, and perhaps Mr Snelly could do some relationship mediation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u34	This is almost entrapment. It leads to an interruption by Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u35	A very bad plan comes from this cabinet with a D66 Secretary of State. We are asking each other critical questions about this. This left-wing cooperation remains certain on points. In the last year of your reign, you will notice that often enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u36	Yes, Mr President, I welcome Mr Moorlag's constructive attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u37	As Mr Van Weyenberg should be aware, there is always a lot of debate on the left side of the political spectrum. On the right they go to the bar early during conferences. I'm naturally optimist. Mr Van Weyenberg does not have to worry about left-wing cooperation. My motto is "criticism is free advice." I am always very happy to work with Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u38	Apparently, I hit a nerve. Mr. Chairman. I would like to dwell on a very different point, and that is that today it is ten years since Hans van Mierlo died. In him I found the inspiration that he is for many in my party to look back at what Hans van Mierlo has just said on the subject of climate change and today's theme. You must always be very careful with comments from the past, but in 1972, a number of years after my party was founded, Mr Van Mierlo, who had already been very inspired by the Club of Rome, said the following about climate change. "If we dare to face the situation sooner and not reason away, which is our first challenge, then there will have to be revolutionary changes. The question is how. We all know that it is a global problem that can only be solved globally, but we cannot wait until there is a world government." This also requires a little bit, apart from the deep belief that people like Jan Terlouw followed afterwards, that we are really working on climate change and its adverse effects on our earth, the people and everything that lives on it, and that we are indeed acting. That's what the Cabinet is doing today by coming up with a flight tax on its own. I agree with everyone that this is an imperfect solution, because the real solution is, of course, a European one. That is why I was very pleased with a draft amendment that I saw from Mrs Lodders of the VVD. I have questions about the legal technique, but you will understand that it always makes my group happy when someone says: please let us exchange this quickly for something European.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u39	I liked to remind Hans van Mierlo. I was always a great admirer of him, too. But it also provokes me to say this. Does Mr Van Weyenberg also have the opportunity to quote him around 1990 when the first discussions were on the use of price incentives in energy taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u40	This sounds like an exam and I don't want to tarnish your homework, so tell me, Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u41	D66 was a great opponent of that. Hans van Mierlo's quote, which I never forgot, was when GroenLinks proposed it as a young party, which had just emerged: "a scream in the night." Hans van Mierlo didn't see anything in it. I really appreciate D66 coming to our side slowly but surely. Perhaps that is an invitation to Mr Van Weyenberg to participate in left-wing cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u42	I believe that the GroenLinks election programme is sufficient to provide financial incentives against climate change. I could call it economics. I think that is wise, by the way. In this sense, I take to heart the call not to underestimate incentives to change my mind. Mr Snels knows that he will find me there by his side. Of course it must be affordable and things should not be taxed to the square meter and so on. I thought that was a bit freaked out in the previous election program, but I'm sure that'll be fine next time. Mr. Chairman. This proposal is a first step, which will generate around EUR 200 million in total through a tax on tickets and freight. You might wonder if that's enough to properly price the economic damage of flying. My point is, if you did that ideal, you'd have to increase that amount even more. I think that's right and ask the Cabinet to confirm that. It is also not so strange that we should do something, because in this sector you do not pay excise duty on kerosene and no VAT on tickets. So you pay more taxes on a cup of coffee at Schiphol Airport or on refueling your Fiat Panda than on 219,000 gallons of fuel in a Boeing 747. That needs to be solved. This flight tax is a first step. But I would very much like to trade them for an international approach, because then you have less potentially disruptive effects and you have maximum effect. If you do that, you can also get to a higher amount that fully prices the external effects, you can think about whether you can do more on long distances, you can think about whether you still need the exception around transfer. But we are doing this now as the Netherlands. That can also be done very well, because a number of countries around us also have such a flight tax. I think that's wise. But I am curious if the cabinet can explain why it has chosen not to distinguish between economy and business class. Is that purely because of the execution and the complexity? I'd like another comment on that. The second thing I would like to ask is whether the cabinet would like to keep its finger on the pulse when it comes to the impact on freight, because there are concerns about that. Maastricht is one of them. Of course, we have to take care of that, because you don't want any unintended negative effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u43	This is an important point, especially for Maastricht. It concerns almost 3,000 jobs, 50% of the jobs. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that, before we introduce this tax, further and thorough research is needed into possible road leaks for, for example, Maastricht and the long-standing difficult situation of freighters at Schiphol Airport? That is what we have to do before we introduce this law and have to deal with the consequences for employment in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u44	I asked a question. I asked you to keep your finger on the wrist. That's different from what you're proposing. Moreover, I do not think it is unreasonable, because we want to tax aviation emissions here. That applies to a cargo plane and to a passenger plane. But with you, I think it would be a good idea for the cabinet to explain again why it chose to divide it between the two sectors in this way. And with you, I ask you to keep your finger on the wrist so that there are no unexpected accidents. That's the question I'm asking. But if you say 'don't do it', I say 'no', because I think it is the main issue, and I assumed that the Socialist Party, too, is also concerned with CO emissions from freight flights. I think we can agree on that. All kinds of exemptions apply to this too. In the end, I think it would be wise to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u45	Sure, cargo planes are airplanes, and they're gonna blow out, too. The SP will not deny that at all. However, we are dealing here with a situation in which we are also dealing with employment and road spills. That is what Mr Van Weyenberg himself calls it. I find it difficult for Mr Van Weyenberg to say: let us keep a finger on the wrist. What if it doesn't go well in a year? What will Mr Van Weyenberg do? Are we going to abolish the freight tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u46	When I started here, I learned not to answer like-dan questions. But the crux is that it doesn't get us anywhere if things go wrong in a specific sector because the freight tax doesn't exist in other countries. For example, you could opt for a different distribution between passenger flights and freight flights. That is why I ask the Cabinet to explain once again why it has now chosen this distribution and whether it is confident that this can be done without negative effects. By the way, I would like to look closely at employment effects, at Schiphol Airport and at other airports. That's the question I'm asking. But if you say "take a pass at the place and don't enter it now," I don't follow you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u47	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u48	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I hear Mr Van Weyenberg's answer, but I think that a lot of people in Limburg who depend on, for example, the freight sector and earn their living in it are not very happy with the answer D66 gives here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u49	That's a little lame. My assumption is that I am less aware of Mr Laçin's concern. I have asked the Cabinet to clarify once again how this risk assessment has come about. I think that was my point. I think we share what we want to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mr Van Weyenberg's speech gives me some frustration about the design of this flight tax. It could have been so much better and so much more creative; that's a bit the translation of his input. Mr Van Weyenberg made a comment on the tax on the business class. He asks the cabinet if that's difficult to implement. Well, I have the answer to that: that's not difficult. I have made an amendment to that effect, together with Mr Stoffer. Can Mr Van Weyenberg be persuaded to support this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u51	At the same time, I do have concerns about whether this is going to work in practice, given the note on the report. That's why I'm asking again. By the way, I can reassure Mr Snels. My mood is excellent, because in this coalition we have managed to achieve a breakthrough, which means that we are now introducing a flight tax. When these four parties started negotiating, few had considered it possible. Above all, I think we are doing something very sensible. As for the design: it is now chosen to do it with that €7, both for a flight to a destination far away and for a flight to a destination nearby, because there are alternatives precisely for those short flights. I think Mr Laçin mentioned some of them, which I also recognize from my own experience. The train to London and Paris is a blessing. So I am very pleased with that. If you're going to expand it later, it's no secret that my party wants to; if you really want to replace the excise duty and VAT, you have to import it or approach it via this flight tax. For example, I look primarily at flights further away. But I can reassure Mr Snels: I think today is a good breakthrough. I appreciate the fact that the Labour Party has already indicated that it is on board. To be honest, I expect you to have a similar constructive attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u52	What a long answer. The question was very specific. It was about business class. That's pretty easy to shape in the law. That's also feasible. The example of this is Great Britain. In fact, in Britain, this tax even increases to €160 per flight. So my question is again: is Mr Van Weyenberg to be persuaded to take part in this amendment and to see if we can make the cabinet proposal that is now before us even more creative?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u53	Since I thought that was an interesting question, I asked the cabinet exactly what the effect was. Was that short enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u54	Mr. Snels, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u55	So, yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u56	I do not say of any amendment, except an amendment that says 'we are not doing it now' or so,... I always look closely at your amendments. I also await the judgment of the cabinet. I will do so with all your amendments. But when it comes to the proceeds of this measure, for example, I will of course stick to the agreements I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u57	Finally, Mr President. That is a bit of the frustration I have in this debate. I believe that this should also be the frustration of Mr Van Weyenberg. What was agreed in the coalition agreement is basically sacred, right? 200 million, creativity; that doesn't matter. Proposals don't matter. Effects don't matter. What has been agreed has been agreed, and in fact we are having this debate for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u58	We are having this debate because we are about to pass this law. I do not think that this is for nothing, because I believe that a long-cherished wish of yours and my party will be fulfilled, with a first step. We both want to get through that. We both want to do that in Europe. I've agreed to the 200 million-dollar return. I was allowed to negotiate this appointment myself, and I'm as happy about it as we were when we made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr. Laçin, you'd already been, so I expect a very creative new question from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u60	The reason why I stand up again and walk here is that Mr Van Weyenberg has already mentioned a number of times about a breakthrough. Then I'm gonna wonder what the real breakthrough is. I fully agree with the fair pricing of aviation. You have a number of means to achieve that goal. But I actually conclude that the D66 fraction of the means has made the goal. A flight tax is the ultimate goal, because it essentially doesn't yield anything. It produces no climate gains, no environmental gains and no less noise pollution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u61	You already said that. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u62	So the fact that we have a tax now is the breakthrough? Or is D66, as we know D66, going to fight for better climate action and environmental gain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u63	I've already been in a fight. That's why we're getting this flight tax. This flight tax is a very good start. You may not think so, but I do. As far as I am concerned, we are going further on this issue at European level. It also brings benefits in terms of prosperity. We've finally gotten to this! This is a measure that puts an end to the tax exemption that this sector had, which means that there was no payment anywhere and so you paid more for filling up your car than for filling up a Boeing. I think that's a breakthrough. Is there always something left to be desired? Of course. In the long term, do I want to regulate this at European level? I'd love to. I think that's a good idea. Do I want a larger yield on balance, because I think you can even better price the emissions? Absolutely. But that may be the difference between you and my party: I see that we are making a breakthrough here. Here's what we're gonna do. I'm very happy about that. You're standing by the side. You say you don't like it. That surprises me, because foreign companies are also going to pay for this. I thought you thought that was wise, too. You say I'm against it. Of course you can, but that's not how you change the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u64	Really rounding up, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u65	From the investigations under this law, I can conclude that this law and this flight tax do not improve the world either and that they only fill the state treasury further. Mr Van Weyenberg can continue to say that it is a breakthrough and that it is a first step in the right direction, but that is not the case at all. All the underlying investigations prove my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u66	That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u67	You're talking about a breakthrough that's not there at all. We're gonna take 200 million. There is no climate gain, no environmental gain and no less noise pollution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u68	Clear, you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u69	Soon the growth of aviation will continue thanks to D66 and the people who can no longer afford the holiday will be the scare. That's thanks to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr Van Weyenberg, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u71	The proceeds of this simply go back into lower taxes for people. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u72	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u73	That's just true! You can move more and more excitedly, but that does not usually change the facts, I say to Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u74	No, no, no, no, Mr. Laçin. No, I really don't. No, you only do that in your second term or at another time, but you have already interrupted this five times. Mr Van Weyenberg continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u75	Maybe the left-wing friends can explain it to you one more time. But the crux here is that this is a start. I couldn't agree more. It also brings prosperity gains; this is shown by all studies. And we give it back in lower taxes. I think that's a profit for people. Above all, we are going to do what is the crux of good climate policy for me: price emissions and put an end to tax exemptions. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few specific questions. The first concerns the European approach. What about trying to achieve this at European level? I found the lyrics in the Green Deal abstract about this. Does the cabinet want to make a European flight tax a wager? There's a few ways we can do that. This can be done by means of a separate European-level flight tax, the introduction of VAT on air passenger transport at EU level, an excise duty on motor fuels for commercial aviation. For Mr Laçin was quite right to say that I agree with him that there is now scope for doing something there independently of the international treaty by means of bilateral excise duties. Are we just going to do that with all the Member States of the European Union? What is the situation with this drive and does the government intend to commit itself to ensuring that we regulate this at European level and that this should become an explicit part of the Green Deal? Mr President, second. What would the total taxes be if you really wanted to price the external effect? How high do you end up? I'd like to get some more figures on that. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is absolutely true that you also have to conduct accompanying policies around electric flies. My colleague Jan Paternotte has much more knowledge of this than I do. 'Cause I think that's fine with no emissions. How do we deal with that? Of course, promoting international travel by train must always go hand in hand with the approach we are discussing today. Mr President, that brings me to the end. I think we're taking a first step today, a nice step. I would be happy if we could withdraw this law because we have a European flight tax, whether through excise duty, through VAT or through a separate European flight tax. 'Cause I think that's even better. In terms of size, I think this is the beginning of the promotion of the climate effect. We can get on with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u77	It hurts me a bit that Mr Van Weyenberg speaks a bit about "she, that left-wing friend club." Why does that hurt me? Because I can remember that D66 was once part of that left-wing friends' club.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u78	We're a proud middle party, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u79	I sometimes think of that with melancholy, but I would like to ask a question. What we have very much in common is our green ambitions, but also fair sharing. Does Mr Van Weyenberg share the view that the flight tax, which may need to be further developed in the near future, will be better digested in society if you give it back to the citizen in a recognizable way, including to the group of people with a small grant, which both Mr Laçin and I are concerned about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u80	As far as melancholy is concerned, I am pleased with our middle party, which indeed already has a long green tradition; I started with Hans van Mierlo for a reason. But we'll talk about the melancholy outside the room later with a cup of coffee or a glass of beer. I have this melancholy once in a while with the responsible Labour Party, which is still proud of how it has driven us through the crisis. I sometimes get the impression that especially non-PvdA's are more proud of that than the PvdA itself. I would also like to give you that confidence, no matter how difficult it was. I understand your point about the recognizable backlock; I understand that. The government agreement makes it very clear that the money goes back into lower charges. You could also put it back more precisely, but this measure is not meant to be a kind of money-collection machine; I fully agree with you. The goal is that you just want to give emission a price. I also think that our two parties agree on this. Especially if we are going to increase it even further, I would like to be open to that; perhaps we will be in a constellation in which your party or other parties will also talk at a formation table about how to do so. I'm open to that. In fact, I agree with you that maintaining support for climate policy is a common challenge for all the green parties, where I agree with both of our parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u81	I am pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg realises that it is a kind of tax on which the image is that it is only a collection of money and that it is returned, but not recognizable. I'm glad he shares that concern. Perhaps it would be good if we had a cup of coffee and talked about how we could give it back to the citizen in a more recognizable and honest way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u82	Exactly. I think that's a quest. You can return everyone €10 with a label "this is the €10 of the flight tax," but I don't see that working either. I think we are in complete agreement. I would like to stress here that the income tax goes down. This is an ultimate measure. We simply think it is fair that you give emissions a price and that you do not give some sectors a total tax exemption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u83	We heard Mr Van Weyenberg opening with quotes from both Terlouw and Van Mierlo. That's a green tradition of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u84	It was Van Mierlo's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u85	I wondered whether Mr Van Weyenberg recognized himself in the argument of the Party for Animals, namely that we are in a new reality, that aviation must move within the limits of climate, living environment and safety, and that economy is no longer leading, although for the more old-fashioned thinkers think of Mr Laçin when he talks about employment. Does D66 recognise that we have entered a new reality and, if so, is it the case that Mr Van Weyenberg is carrying out a study on a CO budget, which science recommends could support, both for the Netherlands in general and for the sectors? Could Mr Van Weyenberg support the Animal Party in terms of a CO budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u86	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u87	...for the aviation sector? Two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u88	Not another third question. No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u89	My second question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u90	No. These are deadlines. Sorry. Two detailed questions have already been asked. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u91	There were still a few inside those two. I think there were more than two of them. I fully agree with Mr Van Raan that our earth has limits and that we are burdening it too much, not financially, but taxing it and that we have to go back because CO emissions, in order to limit myself to that now for convenience, have to go back very much. That is why we both considered the Paris Treaty to be a very important first step to finally bring about a change. I do not think that "economics" is a dirty word. I believe in green growth, whether it's electric or not. I also believe that this is my way, another way, of getting to the CO budget, which is to reduce the total amount of CO. In there, you have to make sure you give emission a price. As far as I'm concerned, people can choose. I am therefore using other words than Mr Van Raan, but as regards the urgency of the climate solution and the idea that we must ensure that our ambitions fit in with our Earth's climate space, I fully agree with him. A CO budget per sector seems complicated to me, because perhaps it shifts between sectors. That's almost operational again. I think Mr Van Raan was trying to discuss an almost philosophical question with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u92	Both. We know what CO emissions are for the Netherlands. We know it's the gauge. I am pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg says: yes, aviation must also move within the limits of climate, living environment and safety. But then he goes for a little swim and he gets a little general himself. The question is very specific. The aviation sector is now releasing 12 megatons. There's a reduction path. This government has said that aviation is an ordinary sector, and we must treat it this way. That means implicitly: a reduction path. My question is simple: does Mr Van Weyenberg explicitly support the fact that this includes a CO budget of around 5 megatons? Could he confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u93	Now I'm gonna take my climate speaker and see if I really understand your question. I fully agree with you that we have a total CO reduction. That is why we have also submitted the Climate Law, which does exactly the same for the whole economy. There will come a day when the Party for Animals will support it. I'm sure of it. The Climate Agreement also identifies reduction targets by sector. But in the end, all I care about is that we make it all together and that we organise it in such a way that pollution gets a prize everywhere. I am not entirely convinced that cutting scissors is the most sensible approach. But if your core is that emissions in this sector should also be priced and that too many emissions cannot be produced because we have a heavy CO reduction path, then I agree with you on that point. But I think you're looking for something very precise. And then I must also honestly admit that I have the impression that if I say "yes" now because it sounds good, I also say "yes" to something I might have second thoughts about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u94	Finally, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u95	On that point, I can reassure Mr Van Weyenberg, because if he said 'yes' to that, he would simply say 'yes' to what cabinet policy really is. Again, the sector is now releasing 12 megatons. There's a reduction target. So it makes sense that you determine what the budget might be. That's the question. And that you're gonna move things after that, that's fine, because we're gonna have to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u96	Again, I get that it has to go back. But the only thing is that Mr Van Raan wasn't asking questions if it was government policy. So the impression is that he's still seeing something underneath that I can't figure out. But I'm gonna talk to him about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u97	Apart from a political-philosophical debate, it is simply a legislative debate. That is why we have a question about Mrs Lodder's amendment to the VVD on the definition of the horizon. I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's argument, which I share, that it is to be welcomed when proposals, directives, regulations or decisions are put forward at European level which introduce a form of flight tax at European level. That would be very nice and good. But that doesn't have to mean automatically, so I have great difficulty with that amendment, which we are now putting into this law that this law will be repealed if such a European flight tax is introduced, in whatever form? I would be very sorry if D66 were to support that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u98	As far as that amendment is concerned, I have already said that I simply agree with the objective. I would like to grant and, as far as I am concerned, even more ambitious European action than this. That's what GroenLinks and D66 share. Whether you should put this legally in an amendment like that, I have big questions about that. Indeed, the explanatory statement already states that we are simply introducing this national tax because we have not been able to do anything European so far. The previous Secretary of State, Mr President-in-Office, who I would like to mention here, too, has really put a lot of effort into this. He's formed a leading group. I'd like to hear what's going on with that, and how we're really moving it forward. But if we finally have a very ambitious European Union that is really preferable, and I think that is your approach too, then I think it is logical that you do not have a national one at the same time. In my view, that is the purpose of this amendment. That makes sense to me. Whether you're supposed to do that legally, I still have questions about that. And I'm also curious about the appreciation. But I think the basic concept that we would very much like to exchange this national for the European is good. I have said this a few times in my speech. I fully agree with that, and so does Mr Snels, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u99	When I read it that way, I believe that this is an almost unbiased amendment. I await the Secretary of State's response. Whatever Europe is going to propose, a decision, a regulation or a directive, this is being exchanged. Can I give you an example myself? We see this in car mobility. There we have different types of taxes and excise duties, all of which have different effects. They can exist side by side. You don't have to, but it could be. Mr Van Weyenberg's proposal is to look at a business class ticket. If we are to introduce an excise duty at European level, you still need a flight tax to tax the business class in a different way. So I understand that, here in The Hague, in politics, we are going to talk again about what to do with this law if we really get far-reaching decision-making in Europe. But I would never want to put it in the law with a horizontal clause. I'd think that was really, really unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u100	I think we agree on the objective. Let me put it this way: if you have something national besides it, we do not have the European tax I am aiming for, nor do I think Mr Snels is aiming for. Again, I also have questions about whether you should do this legally. By the way, I feel very safe, because accounting is just as faint as anything that is uncovered, by definition, cannot. We must ask Mrs Lodders in particular. I think she'll confirm that. I know the VVD as a very solid party when it comes to the state treasury, so I'm not worried about that at all. If you do a €1 European tax tomorrow, it's not like you can read this thing. That is not how I understood the amendment at all. Perhaps you should put that question to the author of the amendment above all else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u101	The last words of Mr Van Weyenberg's speech were: the price of the climate effect, the price of emissions. Does he mean to say that emissions are bad and we shouldn't want them, unless you pay for them? Then it's possible. Contrary to what Mr Van Weyenberg is actually saying, this would mean that it is a matter of common money, all the more so because we all agree that the number of flights is not going to decrease at all because of this flight tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u102	That is not because the flight tax is unwise, but because at the moment there is simply a restriction on the number of flights. The question is actually much higher. But that's a bit like saying: don't put a roof on your house, because today the sun is shining. So I still think it wise to introduce a flight tax, just like you and my house have a roof. Apart from that, I think you should price emissions. That is why I believe in a CO levy for industry and for the electricity sector. If you do that, you get the result you want in the most efficient way and with the least economic distortions. 'Cause you're gonna control the reduction of CO emissions. It is all up to me to reduce CO emissions. Your party has a very different view of this, but I have already been able to take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u103	Yeah, that's right. Fortunately, we have very different views on this. D66 we really know as a climate party. Mr Van Weyenberg is again talking about reducing CO. Okay, apparently that's what you're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u104	And with me, the whole science. I feel in good company.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u105	I think I'm gonna have to talk for a while, thank you very much. Can you calculate for me how much percent of CO reduction this flight load generates and what exactly does that do with Earth's temperature? If you are so convinced of this, you are now screening with science and I know a lot about it, then I expect a well-founded calculation from you. Can you give it to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u106	There's a whole report on the records. You read that, didn't you? I'm not gonna read that all over again. But there's one thing I want to say. Mr Kops is absolutely right on one point, namely that you cannot expect the world at the moment, because there is now also a restriction on the number of flights. That number would actually be much higher. I simply think it is sensible to price emissions and reduce taxes on labour. Knowing that we still have a very long way to go to bring global CO emissions back, you will have to make a start. To be honest, I find it simply inexplicable that your voter and my voter in a Fiat Panda pay taxes to the pump, but not on an airplane. This is quite apart from the question of whether Mr Kops agrees with me on climate change. I challenge Mr Kops to explain to me why he considers that fair, even if he does not believe in climate change. I think the latter is stupid, but it doesn't matter. We know from each other that we disagree. My only question is what story Mr Kops is going to tell people about the fact that you will be taxed if you refuel your car, but that there is no need to pay if a Boeing is filled up. I can't explain that, but Mr Kops might.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u107	Finalizing, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u108	I think I was the one asking a question. I hear a lot of words, but I think I asked for numbers, just a calculation. How much percent CO reduction? How much less global warming? I haven't heard anything yet. You just don't know it at all. And then you come to me with: for driving you have to pay so much tax. That's the problem! That's what you've been helping to do. Excise duties on petrol and diesel are also rising thanks to the climate. D66's fine with that. Instead of doing something about the excessive taxes on driving, for example, you want to introduce a new tax here. What's this crooked thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u109	Your point is clear. Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u110	Income tax is reduced by the proceeds. I wish Mr Kops every success in explaining in every room that you have to pay for the fueling of your car, but not for the fueling of a Boeing. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u111	Going on, I can't do that either. That's where we'll find each other. The Animal Party is prepared not to wait until it is settled at European level. You don't have to do that. It can simply be agreed bilaterally between countries. The Netherlands can, if it is willing and ambitious, make agreements with all those countries which, like Mr Van Weyenberg, do not agree to explain that no kerosene tax is levied. Is Mr Van Weyenberg prepared to support motions in this direction to start making bilateral agreements for a kerosene tax? 'Cause you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u112	I myself asked the Secretary of State about the European commitment, with a group of countries and the European Union, to do so. I just want to prevent us from having one or two bilateral agreements in the situation where you get some kind of airplane sneak traffic. It's gotta help. If one country only does it and everyone with all kinds of tricks is going to fly even more to avoid it, neither one of us is going to do it. But this is exactly the question I asked. If a large leading group of countries does this, it is all negotiable for me. With the flight tax we are doing now, we as the Netherlands are not waiting for a world government to see Hans van Mierlo's quote that I started with. Nor are we waiting for European agreements. We are doing this ourselves, knowing that a number of European countries have happily preceded us, so that it can be done in a way that guarantees some level playing field. But let's see how far we get in Europe. We share that view. But it must help, I say to Mr Van Raan. I'm not waiting for sneak-a-fly traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u113	I note that D66 is willing to do so and that D66 does not have to confine itself to Europe either. You can meet it around the world. I assume that is what Mr Van Weyenberg means, and he is not going to confine himself to Europe alone, but to explore all the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u114	Sure. That is my last question to the Secretary of State. My colleague, Mr Paternotte, has tabled a motion, which has been supported by a parliamentary majority and which asks the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State to start discussing the global treaty. But one of the good news in the note on the report is that we do not have to wait for the world to start as Europe or as the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, I would like to conclude by saying that this is exactly what we are doing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u115	Thank you for your input. You have matched Mr Moorlag by not using 40% of your requested speaking time. You were a little more creative in triggering interruptions. I hope that the coming interruptions will be a little more concise, because some interruptions are almost complete deadlines. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Slootweg, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Democrat Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a weird time to deal with the flight tax. The coronavirus ensures that airlines are in a total crisis and make huge losses every day. Perhaps in the coming weeks a number of major airlines in Europe and the US will have to be rescued by the government, or they will go bankrupt. Transport flows are declining very quickly. We see a negative externality of globalisation that is made possible by flying, namely that it is a way that diseases can spread quickly around the world. This bill is about another negative externality, namely the fact that negative environmental impacts do not return to the pricing of flying. And that is an important principle when it comes to environmental taxes. In the case of taxes on income, it is important to look at all forms of income from the point of view of justice. People with an equal income should be taxed as much as possible. In the case of an environmental tax, all forms of pollution must be taxed as evenly as possible. As far as air traffic is concerned, kerosene is not subject to excise duty due to international agreements. Furthermore, air traffic is not subject to VAT. It is therefore important to introduce a flight tax in order to make the whole of environmental taxes more balanced. Environmental taxes can be an effective means of controlling people's behaviour, at least temporarily. Public authorities must therefore be wise in the design of environmental taxes. Too strong a stimulus can lead to unwanted side effects. Environmental taxes are almost never in line with the principle of carrying capacity. As a result, they can end up relatively heavy in people with a moderate or low income. All the taxes we know have the main purpose of financing collective spending. The paradoxical effect of an environmental tax may be that it has such behavioural effects as to prevent negative externality from occurring. That is beautiful in itself, but it has the effect that it doesn't produce anything for the treasury in the immediate sense. For the CDA, it is very important for environmental taxes to avoid border effects as much as possible. That's what I'm worried about when it comes to Maastricht Aachen Airport. The government's investigation led to a small shift from freight to passenger transport. Therefore, the flight tax also has a slightly positive environmental impact. We are not clear whether it has been investigated whether the transport of freight in Maastricht is going to move to Liège, Cologne, Bonn, Brussels or Düsseldorf. The answer to Mrs Lodder's questions gives us the impression that this has not been investigated. Has a border impact test been carried out which specifically called for attention to be paid to freight traffic in Maastricht? If not, why not? Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so and send the result to the Chamber before Princess Day? We ask this because Liège and Maastricht are very close together: a difference of 30 kilometres. Mr. Chairman. This is at the heart of my plea: ensure as much European cooperation as possible when it comes to flight tax. Otherwise, air traffic will continue, but in another place. About a year ago, a congress in the Netherlands was organised by the predecessor of this Secretary of State to get as many Member States as possible towards a flight tax. The reactions from other countries were very positive and, moreover, all countries can use the budgetary revenue. I'm asking this Secretary of State what's going on with that now. In November last year, with eight other countries, the Netherlands called on the European Commission to come forward with a legislative proposal for a European flight tax. What is the State Secretary's expectation of how this process will proceed? Is the proposal for a revision of the Energy Taxation Directive pending in mid 2021? Is it the government's expectation that an excise duty on kerosene will be included in this? What discussions have been held on European initiatives in the field of aviation taxation up to that time? Another important condition for environmental taxes is that there is an action perspective. The tax payer needs to know why he has to pay the tax. Then there must be alternatives to choose. The payer must know the alternatives and find them. What environmental objectives does the Secretary of State intend to achieve with this tax? What strategy does the government put in place for this? Is this just a flight tax or is the government also trying to achieve environmental objectives with other measures? Which alternatives should the payer choose? Is the aim, for example, to allow passengers to catch the train at short distances? Is the aim to limit business air traffic and make more use of digital opportunities? How was the substitution measured? Will environmental objectives be better achieved if freight traffic is carried out more by road and water than by air? Can there be a moment when an air load is no longer necessary, for example when all air traffic is electric? I am asking for specific environmental targets because the environmental tax has a moral component. Flying becomes less attractive because it contributes significantly to global CO2 emissions. For individuals, flying is often by far the largest component of the CO2 footprint to be avoided. It cannot therefore be the case that the flight tax becomes an excuse, a kind of indulgence, to be allowed to fly more because one pays for it. In this context, I would like to quote the passage from "Not everything is for sale" by North American political philosopher Michael Sandel. In it he describes the course of events at a daycare center. The rule was to pick up his or her kids before 6:00 a.m. When there was no fine on it, it happened sporadicly that people were late. After a fine was imposed for being late, it became sheer and sleight of hand. The justification for this was: you pay for it anyway! Mr. Chairman. Is it also a specific objective of the flight tax to reduce noise pollution for residents? Is there any differentiation, for example, for noisy aircraft, so that they amount to public health? The government states in its replies that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management, together with behavioral experts, explores the factors determining air passengers and what interventions can contribute to sustainability. We're six months away now. Can the Secretary of State indicate what has emerged from this investigation and what actions are being launched? The government also indicates that the number of freight flights will increase by about a third over the next ten years. In a bad economic scenario, the number of flights increases by 10% and in a positive scenario by over 50%. How does this increase relate to the environmental objective of air transport, as freight traffic is more polluting than passenger transport? How, then, does this estimate relate to the fears of Maastricht Aachen Airport that freight traffic may be most likely to move to airports across the border? Mr. Chairman. The government has not yet addressed my group's question as to what happens when the passenger cancels the flight. All she's saying is that that's private law. But does a passenger who cancels only get the ticket price or the ticket price and the charged flight tax? The government has indicated that it will not be able to say anything about this passing on, or to what extent, it will be able to do so. But how is that going to happen in private jets anyway? Can you guarantee that the tax will be passed on to people in private jets at all times? Furthermore, the government has indicated that the first declaration will not be made in May because the collection system will not be operational. The first period therefore increases and is adapted to this collection system. When is this system expected to be ready? How and when will airport operators be informed when to make the initial declarations? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u117	Thank you very much, you are also at about 40% unused time. Then Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u118	Mr President, it will be a challenge, but I will also do my best to stay well within the speaking time. A holiday or a business trip by plane or a city trip: now that is the most common thing in the world. Of course, it's not fun if you have to pay more for your ticket because of a tax on flying. At the same time, I note that there is increasing understanding that we are asking all sectors to contribute to sustainability. Mr. Chairman. Sustainability and greening are an important objective of this cabinet. The Climate Agreement concluded last year gives substance to this. The VVD believes that aviation should contribute to sustainability. We see in practice that the aviation sector itself is already taking important steps. This shows that the sector is taking responsibility for this. These initiatives are warmly supported by my group, but my group also sees the introduction of this bill as part of it. Mr. Chairman. In order to maximise the impact on our climate objectives, it is important to make agreements on the sustainability of the sector internationally. My group therefore wants agreements to be made at European level. In addition to a greater contribution to the climate objectives, this is also important for a level playing field between European airports and the different airlines. The cabinet has taken a number of actions to get this issue on the European agenda. Unfortunately, this has not yet led to agreement. My questions to the Secretary of State are: What steps have been taken? What steps have been taken in the period between the submission of the bill and today's discussion? I would like this Secretary of State to continue working on this European approach. Can the Secretary of State indicate when he's going to inform the Chamber about this? At least when he's going to inform the Chamber about another step. Mr. Chairman. Should it become apparent that agreements can be reached at European level on the pricing of air transport, this will mean that this national tax will disappear again. In response to the questions of the VVD, this is also included in the explanatory memorandum to this bill. I would like to stress this again during this debate. We have to avoid a pile-up of costs. In order to lay this down in the law, I have tabled an amendment to this effect. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to this amendment. The flight tax is split into a tax on tickets and a tax on cargo. The principle of an equal amount for all tickets can count on my group's support. A ticket for the shorter distance is charged relatively heavier than that for a longer travel distance. This could stimulate people to look at an alternative for short distances. I also see the choice to tax more noisy aircraft than quieter ones as an incentive to move, if possible, to quieter aviation. The cabinet has chosen not to tax cargo on passenger aircraft. In this choice, too, I see an incentive to ensure that an aircraft that already flies with passengers fills with cargo so that there is no empty space. Does the Secretary of State have any idea how the space on passenger flights is used? Does the Secretary of State share this analysis that the aim should be to make full use of this capacity? Aren't there any worries? Oh, yes, I do. In the South Limburg region, people are very concerned about the introduction of the air tax on cargo aircraft and its consequences for Maastricht Aachen Airport, because Maastricht Airport is a small airport, but it is of national importance. It relies heavily on the freight sector and has strong competition from abroad. This makes it easy for companies to deviate to the competitor, because it is within driving distance. This regional airport accounts for over 3,000 jobs. That means 3,000 people and their families are worried about their jobs. Those concerns are justified. Together with my colleagues Remco Dijkstra and Chantal Nijkerken-de Haan I already asked questions about these concerns at the end of January. Yesterday, the Secretary of State answered these questions. My concerns have not been taken away, I say honestly. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks about this. He stated in his reply that there was actually too little research into the effects of the airport tax on regional airports. This also means that there is no clarity about the long-term effects of the flight tax on employment. I'm asking the Secretary of State to reflect on this. Mr Slootweg has already asked a number of detailed questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u119	Mr Stoffer has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u120	I am perhaps much more in favour of a flight tax than Mrs Lodder's. I like this law. We share Mrs Lodder's concern about what can happen at small airports, especially at Maastricht airport, for example. That is why I intend to table an amendment in the context of 'thinking before you begin'. It could be about there by now. I would, of course, like to hear what the Secretary of State says about it. What if the Secretary of State's answer is not entirely clear? Could my amendment be supported by the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u121	I say honestly that I have not yet read your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u122	Well, you can't, 'cause it's gotta be there right about now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u123	Then perhaps you should tell us something about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u124	You can't ask me for a blind reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u125	Quite simply: the amendment seeks to avoid the tax on freight flights, so simply not to introduce it now. But, of course, just the tax on people's flights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u126	I am not in favour of the latter. I have asked a lot of questions and I am not quite finished with this cup either. Because I would also like to ask the Secretary of State to use the coming months to carry out additional research, because I think that we really need to do so in order to reflect the consequences and certainly also to look at the effects on employment. Because we share the concerns and I do not believe that we are the only ones; more people have now expressed their concerns. I would therefore first like to await the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u127	Of course I do. We'll get back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u128	Mrs Lodders continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u129	Mr. Chairman. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do further research in the coming months, including the effects on regional airports, where there is a demand for additional research? The main focus of the studies is on the effects on Schiphol Airport, but I believe that these regional airports are important. Mr. Chairman. In advance of this, I have the amendment to item No. 9 in order to bring forward the assessment of the law on cargo. In the bill, the Secretary of State assumes an evaluation after five years. My amendment specifically calls for the two-year review to be carried out with regard to freight. This amendment also lays down that the evaluation is to be incorporated into the law. The same applies to the tax on the tickets. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take the effects on sustainability into the assessments, both freight and passengers? I would like a commitment on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to finish, because a lot of questions have already been asked and I'm curious about the answers. I don't think there's much point in repeating it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u130	A short question to the VVD. The VVD is for moderate growth. She has made certain conditions, but in principle she is for growth. Does the VVD agree with the Animal Party that the tax should also apply to cargo carried on passenger aircraft? Could there possibly be a hallway there, where a cargo plane is equipped with ten passenger seats? It happens, those planes are really configurable. Isn't that an undesirable effect that the Secretary of State needs to take a look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u131	I have just said in my speech that I see not taxing cargo on passenger aircraft as an incentive and as using empty space in aircraft that do fly anyway. So I think it is a different effect from what Mr Van Raan says. So I wouldn't be in favour of that. I am curious, however, whether this space in these passenger aircraft is being used to the full. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u132	Good if unused space is used. But the question was actually about the fact that cargo planes get a few passenger seats, so that the bulk involved, namely that cargo in that cargo plane, is not taxed because there are a few passenger seats on the plane. That was actually more the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u133	Then you, I think, assume the bad of everything and everyone. Look, what you're sketching, of course, shouldn't be the intention. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks about the possibility of placing two, three or five seats in a cargo plane so that the entire space can be filled with free cargo. Of course, we should not allow that, but you have a point. But I'm not gonna assume that. I'm assuming everyone wants to make a contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u134	I know the VVD in my committee, the IenW committee, which is Mrs Dijkstra's colleague, Mrs Lodders, as a party that pays attention to the fact that the increases do not come constantly on the board of the ordinary people. I hear Mrs Lodder here defending a tax measure that does very little about climate, environment and noise, at least, but above all hits the people with a small scholarship if they want to go on holiday once a year after hard work and savings. Why is the VVD defending this tax measure, which does not do much for the rest, but only the state treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u135	I do not entirely agree with Mr Laçin, of course. Let me start by saying that we think it is very important that anyone who wants to spend a week on holiday should be able to use the means of transport he or she used. My colleague Remco Dijkstra argues that very often with you in committee, because you often have a debate on aviation. That is what we consider important. I think a balance has been found in the legislative proposal before us. I fully understand Mr Laçin's ambition, which I also belong to a number of other spokesmen, to raise rates. I even see an amendment coming along to double rates. We are not in favour of that. Let us first see how this bill is introduced and what its effects are. I therefore do not share Mr Laçin's view that this is really only the responsibility of that group of people. At the same time, I would also like to inform Mr Laçin that the proceeds of this flight tax are being returned to a reduction in income tax, which has already been discussed in an earlier debate on the subject. So it really comes back to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u136	I find this answer very difficult to believe. How can the VVD collect and defend 200 million here by saying that it goes back to a reduction in income tax, whereas this government, led by the VVD, intends to reduce the tax on profits for companies next year and thereby give EUR 2.4 billion to large companies? How can you collect $200 million from people here with the defense that you're cutting income tax? I would say, Mrs Lodders, VVD, do not let that 2.4 billion go to those companies, but let it go all the way to a reduction in income tax. Then this 200 million-dollar flight tax, which does nothing at all, is totally superfluous. Let's make a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u137	Am I hearing the SP pleading for the flight tax to be removed from the table? I believe that the SP and Mr Laçin should be mindful of the fact that this is being introduced, because I believe that you are in favour of it. Mr Laçin brings in all kinds of other things. I am happy to confine myself today to the bill as it stands here. This bill will indeed raise 200 million. And the SP may think differently about that, but I'm glad that that money, thanks to the Tax Plan we discussed with each other, also with the SP, goes back to a tax cut for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u138	Finalizing, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u139	I had hoped that Mrs Lodder would have listened better to my introduction. She would certainly not have come to the conclusion that I am in favour of this tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u140	Well, you said it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u141	I didn't say it at all, Mr. Chairman! The chairman even looks at me smiling. I will also say it openly here: if this law does not change, I will vote against this law, because it affects the wrong group and not the multi-flyers. Let that be clear. I understand, however, that Mrs Lodders wants to confine herself to this law in this debate, because the 2.4 billion she presents to big business is obviously not convenient at the moment. But you really have to come from a good house to say here with dry eyes that you need that 200 million to lower income tax, while on the other hand you're going to give EUR 2.4 billion to polluters next year, to big business. I would like to ask the VVD to give a good response to that. I don't think it's gonna work, but I'd say try it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u142	No, I am certainly not going with Mr Laçin in this metaphor. He puts all the companies away as polluters and I don't know what. We're gonna have the tax plan next year. Debates of the European Parliament I would also remind you that all this will not be enough, but I am also of a party that likes to carry out the 3 billion reliefs last year in the Tax Plan. I think that's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u143	We're gonna raise taxes. That happens in a way that people say: such a kind of generic relief, reduction of income tax, it ends up with everyone, but not me. That statue's gonna stick to it fast. In the context of greening the tax system, would it not be much better to say that we are making the proceeds flow back to the citizen in a recognizable way, substitution? Now there's too much of the image of slander. Could you not allow the increase in aviation tax to be accompanied by a reduction of the ODE on the citizens' energy bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u144	Then you make choices about that, too. Then you're also gonna link it to certain groups. The cabinet has made this choice and I can wholeheartedly support it. I do understand Mr Moorlag's question. I would have expected a slightly different question from him, namely whether it should not be used to make the sector more sustainable. That question could be ahead of us. I think the choice we have made now is a good one. I would like to say to Mr Moorlag that there is increasing understanding and support for the fact that aviation is also going to contribute to sustainability and greening. So I think it is really a good thing to have the extra income flowed back through income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u145	We agree that aviation must also play its part. It would just be good if the proceeds returned to citizens in a recognizable green way. I call on Mrs Lodders to allow that in her thinking. Then there is a second point I would like to make. The VVD is also the party of choice for citizens. Does Mrs Lodder share the view that we should simply develop good green sustainable alternatives to flies, clean, comfortable and fast, such as hsl connections? How does Mrs Lodder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u146	First, on the first point, the weighing of the greening. We have now given priority to this matter in the last Tax Plan, which my group will be discussing as much as possible in the forthcoming Tax Plan as we can in order to achieve a reduction in the tax, particularly for middle-incomes and SMEs, small entrepreneurs. I'll bet on that any time it can. And then we have to green it up. I think that this cabinet has really taken some good measures. We have a climate agreement. The Climate Act has already passed. More than 60 measures are being prepared and a number of measures have already been launched. Of course, we do quite a lot there. I believe that this can also be supported by Mr Moorlag. So I am not going to be surprised that we are not doing anything about it or that we are not thinking about it. Then there is the second point, the commitment to sustainability, the greening of the sector. I think it is important that this be done. I know that the aviation sector is therefore also beginning to take important steps in this regard. I'm just calling it electric taxiing. I also looked at Schiphol. I didn't pay a job visit there that long ago. I was impressed by the steps they're doing. So I think there are quite a lot of steps to be taken there, but if there is to be an incentive to go one step further, let us think about it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u147	Mrs Lodders continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u148	I wanted to finish, Mr. Chairman. There were a number of substantive questions, but they have already been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u149	Then I am very grateful, because you have not used more than 50% of your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u150	Exactly, and my time went on. So you're giving me the big prize tonight, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u151	Well, I think Mr Laçin was also in that order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u152	May I thank you very much?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u153	Perhaps Mr. Snels will set a record. I now give the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u154	Thank you, Mr President. If I could summarize this debate in a somewhat flattened expression, I think it would be better to have one bird in the hand than ten in the air. That is what the proposal is, I think, basically about. She might be appropriate, too. Mr. Chairman. This new Secretary of State may not know it yet, but I am, together with Mr Sneller of D66, rapporteur for the Quality Insight project. This is an important project from the coalition agreement and it has also been proposed by the Study Group on Budgets. It's important to the Chamber, too. It is not for nothing that the Chamber appointed two rapporteurs. The mission of that project is that we must be able to explain as politics every decision we make, every budget we spend, every measure we propose, whatever benefits society. What knowledge is used? Do we use all knowledge? Have any alternatives been investigated? Do we evaluate well? Do we think carefully about how we evaluate? One of the important elements of that project......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It entered into force on 1 January 2018. The most important article, for me and for Understanding Quality, is Article 3.1. What does that article say? Any proposal made by the cabinet must be clear on what its objective is, how effective the policy proposed is and how effective it is. When I look at the explanatory memorandum to this bill, I wonder if this bill is not in breach of the Compatibility Act. For Mr Slootweg asked for all the objectives of this bill for a reason. They're not clear. What does the Cabinet intend to achieve with this bill? The cabinet doesn't argue it. The objectives are not clear. The effectiveness of the proposals is not made clear. Mr Van der Linde, a colleague of Mrs Lodder's, has sometimes said when discussing the Quality Understanding project and Article 3.1: if the Cabinet comes up with a bill that does not comply with the Compatibility Act, perhaps we should simply send that proposal back to the Cabinet. "Do your homework again." When I read this explanatory statement, I think that this law would have been a good candidate for it, because the justification is miserable. Actually, there's no evidence to support it. That is one of the great disappointments I have in this debate. In fact, with our understanding of Quality, we want to explain to the citizen why we are pursuing what policies, what insights and what knowledge are used. Actually, we all know. This bill was fixed in the coalition agreement and there is no room to change anything else in this law. That should hurt the Secretary of State in the heart, I think. So I'd like a response from this Secretary of State. Is this law in accordance with the Compatibility Act? Mr. Chairman. We know what the problem is. No excise duty is paid in aviation. There is a VAT exemption. In fact, VAT is set to zero. This means that airlines themselves may charge the VAT they have to pay to all kinds of suppliers of services and products. This actually means that there is a VAT subsidy for airlines. We also see that in countries around us, the United Kingdom, Germany and France, flight taxes are much higher than in the Netherlands, even after this bill. When I look at this and compare it with other forms of mobility, I come to the conclusion that Schiphol is a tax haven. Schiphol tax haven; no tax is paid. This is unfair competition from all other forms of mobility, but it is actually just a subsidy. To all those parties who are constantly talking about the jobs that Schiphol provides, I say: these are subsidy jobs. What does the Secretary of State think of this qualification? Does he agree with GroenLinks that, in the longer term, we should not do that with this bill; it is a step forward because of the external effects of aviation mobility, we should put an end to Schiphol tax haven? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European dimension. The previous Secretary of State, as we have been able to follow, has really tried to bring this debate to a higher level at European level. We're going to have a discussion about excise duties. We're going to have a discussion about VAT. The previous Secretary of State has run a long way for that. I would also like to hear from this Secretary of State that this issue remains a priority for him in the European debate on excise duties. The energy directive may need to be readjusted or vetoed in order to remove the exemption from kerosene excise duty, but it may also need to be bilaterally or with leading groups of countries. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the question of how he is going to give that European route and how he is going to make a commitment to it. Then there is the proposal itself, Mr President. I have tabled a number of amendments. The interesting thing is that we got a lot of information. Well, that's to be commended in this law-making process. We have an SME with different variants, in height, in rates, in bases. We have received a comparison with other countries. What is used as a basis and as a levy in other countries? Actually, that's all ammunition to conduct a rational debate. That's why I brought up the Compatibility Act. But then the choice of the cabinet is so disappointing. Why, as in the United Kingdom, is there not a distinction between ordinary passengers and business class passengers? Then you'll have to stop the criticism the SP has. There is also a considerable correlation with the multi-flyers. In that proposal in the United Kingdom, flights outside Europe may even reach €160 per flight. That's quite a flight tax. It is also a little more honest than the proposal that is now before us. Why wasn't that considered seriously as an alternative? Why is the 200 million from the coalition so sacred? Why? Why? If you look at the SMBA, a doubling of the flight tax will result in better results for both passengers and freight. The SMEA shows that if we simply double this flight tax, it is socially and economically better. Then why don't we? Then why can't I? It's gonna get more jobs. It's more well-being. It produces better climate effects. It produces better environmental impacts. That's why we got the information. However, it is not possible, just because we are no longer conducting a debate rationally, because we are not looking at what we want to achieve, because the goals are not clear, but because there is a sacred agreement in the coalition agreement. Isn't that one of the key problems of how we conduct politics here? It is always about a closed government agreement, which is mainly about measures and we can no longer explain to the public why we are taking measures or whether better measures are conceivable, whether it is about freight transport, passenger transport, multi-pilots or the distinction between ordinary people, tourists who go on holiday once, and business class passengers. Why don't we do that anyway? Why are we holding political debates like this? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. You have all seen the amendments. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. I can sort of draw it out. But I would also like the Secretary of State to provide a perspective for the longer term, apart from the European dimension, which has a correlation with that. I can really see that. If we can take European steps, it will affect what we are doing in the Netherlands. What possibilities does this Secretary of State, philosophizing for another cabinet period, see in the future in this rather simple flight tax that we are now introducing, this first small step, to make any changes in base, rate and differentiation? And does the Secretary of State agree with me that we should continue to think about this and that we should continue to make proposals for it, because the external effects and external costs must ultimately be reflected in air traffic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u155	Thank you very much for your input. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u156	I very much agree with the call for a smarter tax system, but I am also afraid of an unsedated increase in the burden, which is quickly perceived as: flying is denied to us, the people with a small wallet. My question to Mr Snels is: what should happen to the proceeds? Would it be conceivable for Mr Snels, for example, to use the revenues to reduce the highest rate of storage of renewable energy, the class that applies especially to households?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u157	I think there's a lot of ways you can use it. It would also be interesting to reduce VAT on train tickets in order to promote alternatives, such as rail traffic. Then you have a substitution effect directly related to air traffic. But you can also further reduce the energy discount for households. In fact, I think that the way we conduct climate policy must always be fair. We need to think about burden-sharing between citizens and businesses. But that does not mean that you should not continue to use the principle that externalities should ultimately be reflected in the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u158	I agree with Mr Snels on that last point. I also appreciate that he has tabled amendments, but I do have that dilemma. I do not think that the possibility of adopting these amendments is as good as nil in my opinion, because this bill was put into the coalition concrete in the coalition agreement and, no doubt, in the coalition agreement. That makes me a little cynical about the feasibility. I thought that Mr Snels asked a very good question to the Secretary of State, namely to look a little further than just this reign and to see how we could do a little less intelligent taxing this less intelligent form of tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u159	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u160	This wasn't a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u161	Okay. Thank you very much. You have used about 66% of your speaking time. But you did that without reading it, so that's another plus. Mr Kops's turn is on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Macedonia, Kosovo, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Oman, Iran I must say that it is a selection, because the list of faraway destinations is endless. It's a fact that D66s love to fly. GroenLinks, by the way. D66'ers and GroenLinksers get on the plane most often. In itself, that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that, of course. We really do not want to deprive others of the pleasure of, for example, a flight holiday. But it is hypocritical of course, because it is especially these parties that are calling out the loudest that we have to fly less because flying is bad for the climate, says D66 and GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. Today, almost everything is bad for the climate. People who simply want to live their lives in a normal way are talking about climate guilt in virtually everything they do. Autoshame, because you can't afford an electric car and therefore drive a diesel. Flesh doubt, because you'd rather eat a meatball than a salad. Shower shudders It really exists because you like to be in the shower for 15 minutes. And now you're ashamed of flying, because you occasionally go on a flight holiday with the family. It's talked to people, so they can tax it. That's what today is about: a flight tax. Flight tickets are becoming more expensive, and freighters will also be taxed. The cabinet calls this madness a fiscal greening measure. Of course, that sounds very chic when you say it quickly, but in fact it's just a climate measure to knock people's cheap money out of their pockets. Because what do we read in the explanatory memorandum? It states that this flight tax has a limited effect on the climate. That's literally what it says. Then we are just talking about a flight tax as a climate measure: it has a limited effect. Can the Secretary of State explain exactly what the purpose of this flight tax is? Isn't that what we read about greening, climate and so on? All of us don't have to do it. Let us be very clear about that. But what exactly does this greening mean? How much less CO emissions does this flight tax generate, if that's what it's all about? And to how many degrees less global warming is something of 50 zeros behind the decimal point or so would this lead? When it comes to climate and greening, I also expect a well-founded calculation from the Secretary of State. I can hear him sighing from here, so I look forward to the answer. The question then is: what exactly is this flight tax for? In an earlier debate on the draft climate agreement, the chairman of the D66 group had a striking answer. On his own flight behaviour, he said, "That's why" so because of that flight behaviour "I am in favour of a flight tax; so that people who catch the plane pay a fair price." Here comes the monkey from the sleeve. So it's basically some kind of latency. Flying is bad, but it's not bad if you pay for it. First you'll be talked into flying shame, and then you can pay extra to get rid of it. So it's kind of buying off your climate guilt. To quote aviation expert Mr De Haan of Erasmus University: "If you aim to generate more tax revenues, this measure will have an effect. But if you want people to fly less, this will have a very limited effect." In short, the Jettens and the Klavers of this world, who can easily afford it, are really not going to fly any less because of this flight tax. But for the common man and the woman, they are often forgotten in this room, which often has to save a lot to be able to travel with the family once a year, it simply means an extra cost. I told you, it's just a cheap money beat-up. Mr. Chairman. What do we read in the explanatory memorandum? "Basic point in setting the rates" means the €7 per ticket "is the intended budgetary yield of 200 million, as agreed in the government agreement." It has nothing to do with climate or greening. In the cabinet it was simply agreed: "We want to raise 200 million. Let's all think for a minute. How are we gonna do that? Well, that's done by flying tax. Then we will stick the label 'greening' on it; then the people will fall for it." Well, I didn't. It's just a earning model, a climate earning model. The flight tax should be 200 million, through the airline tickets, but also through freight transport. 188 million is collected through the airline tickets, and 12 million has to be coughed up by freighters. The air freight sector is deeply concerned and fears the loss of jobs, as flights from Maastricht Aachen Airport can move to Liège, among others. How is the Secretary of State going to prevent job losses, ensure that no job is lost because of this terrible plane tax? Mr. Chairman. Let's look at 2008. A flight tax was introduced at that time. The proceeds of that were disappointing. Why? Because a large part of the departing passengers went to Germany and Belgium. Is that gonna happen here, too? I'd like a response. Let us be clear: if passengers have to go to Germany, Belgium or another country because the ticket is cheaper there, then that is also of course an extra cost for them. So on the left or right, they're just gonna pay more. Mr. Chairman. I'm kind of giving you a summary. One: no less is flown. Two: flights move abroad. Three: climate and greening has nothing to do with it. Four: the common man and woman can just start paying. It's not good for anything, but it's so good for the state treasury. I would very much like to say to D66, GroenLinks and all those other climate callers: if you are really talking about greening, sustainability, climate and anything else, then you can fly less yourself. Get on the plane less yourself if that's really what you're talking about. But let the people in the country, who normally want to go on a flight holiday once in a while, even if it is only to avoid all the madness that is being poured out over the country by these parties, especially nice and quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u163	Thank you. You have not used about a quarter of your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u164	That's neat, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u165	Yeah, sure. Mr Stoffer is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u166	Am I still first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u167	Yes, Mr Laçin is still at the top. But who knows what Mr Stoffer is going to do, even if he was a little more modest in asking for speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u168	I had the least time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u169	Well, it's more about what percentage of your speaking time you don't use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u170	I'll double it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u171	Very good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On a beautiful day in the spring of 1920, on 17 May, the first KLM flight took off from an airport in London. After a few hours of flight, that plane landed in Amsterdam at 12.40 p.m. The plane didn't carry much. There were only two journalists on board, a pile of newspapers and a letter from the mayor of London. In the meantime we are 100 years and a lot of flights further. After 100 years, there's even a tax on it now. Finally, I'd say. I understand that the two journalists who flew on that first line flight from KLM have not yet paid taxes. However, like my colleagues from D66, I believe that there is still no tax to be paid by 2020. Indeed, it cannot be that you have to pay all kinds of taxes for the car, the train and the bus, while air passengers do the dance. Of course, aviation contributes through the European CO-emission trading system and through the global CORSIA system, but more is needed as far as we are concerned. We should not wait for European or international agreements on a flight tax, because we are perfectly capable of introducing such a tax ourselves. Waiting longer would be unnecessary, I'd say. The SGP therefore welcomes the fact that there will finally be a flight tax. Of course, I would like to comment on this, because as far as the SGP is concerned, this proposal does not go far enough; €7 per ticket is just very little. You can make all kinds of calculations of coffee and so on, but on tickets of hundreds of euros it is generally very little money. For example, the tax for a ticket to Suriname is only 1.2%. You can get all kinds of examples where the percentage just changes, but it's about little. That is why my question to the cabinet is why this €7 was chosen. In response to questions from the SGP, the State Secretary states that the Climate Agreement is the result of an integral consideration. I understand that in itself, but I do not think that the climate agreement includes this whole flight tax. In the end, I don't understand the whole argument. I'd like to get a real explanation of that. The Cabinet therefore simply has the opportunity to make an independent assessment and is not bound by the Climate Agreement as regards the flight tax. A tax of €15 per ticket was one of the variants considered by the cabinet. Then why wasn't that fare chosen? I'd really like to hear what the trade-off has been. The SGP is indeed in favour of a €15 ticket tax. That is why we, together with GroenLinks, have tabled an amendment proposing a higher tax. For several reasons, that rate can be increased as far as we are concerned. The polluter must pay. €7 per ticket does not do justice to that principle. A doubling of the amount is much more close in that respect. For the car and the train you pay a lot more tax relatively. From the tax and environmental point of view, €7 is a slap for a plane ticket. As far as the SGP is concerned, there must be a serious incentive to opt for the train instead of the plane, if possible. Fares are much higher in other countries, especially for longer distances. Mr. Chairman. There will be a flat fare for the flight tax. Whether you fly to London or to the other side of the world, everyone pays €7. There must be a clear argument behind that, which I would like to hear from the Secretary of State. Why not opt for a high and low fare, depending on the flight distance? Almost all countries do work with multiple rates. Of course, there may also be good reasons to work at one rate, but I would like to hear it from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The revenue from the ticket tax is for the benefit of the general budget. I have a question to ask: why has the government not chosen to invest the proceeds of the flight tax specifically in making the aviation sector more sustainable? Because that would catch two birds with one stone. I would also like to have a reaction to that. Mr President, I see someone standing by the interrupting microphone. Of course, it's up to you whether I go on or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u173	I think it would be a good idea for Mr Laçin to put his interruption in place for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u174	On the previous point. I hear Mr Stoffer say: as far as we are concerned, the rate of €7 per ticket can be raised. Shortly afterwards, he also says: a flat tax has been chosen. In the context of climate justice, I would like to ask Mr Stoffer the following question. I have already pointed out in my contribution that this €7 hits a lot of families who work hard and have to save to go on holiday once a year, sometimes once every two years. That €7 does not hit the multiflyer, the real polluter. Mr Stoffer proposes to double that rate of €7 to €14 or €15. What effect does he think will that have on all those people who work hard and save once a year on vacation? How evenly do they get hit, if you compare it with the people who fly business and fly up and down all the time when that might not be necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u175	I have just heard Mr Laçin's speech. Then I thought: the ordinary Dutch he knows are different from the ones I know. People living in my area do indeed have to do their best to go on vacation once a year, but they just go on vacation here in the Netherlands, or perhaps once in France, but by car. The people in my neighborhood who fly are people with a high salary, without children. Otherwise, I don't know a lot of them. I do not know which ordinary people Mr Laçin knows who can do it once or twice a year, but in my environment that is generally what we call 'rich people'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u176	I should perhaps ask Mr Stoffer to go into the Randstad with me and talk to the people around me. They work very hard in factories or at Schiphol Airport, as a security guard or baggage dealer. They really need a year to put that little bit aside so that they can go on vacation with their family with one, two or three children. Then I leave the choice to them whether they go on holiday in the Netherlands or whether they want to fly to the sun. I'll leave it to them, and I'd like to leave it to them too. I hope that Mr Stoffer agrees with me that she, the group that goes on holiday once a year or once every two years, is not the big problem when it comes to the climate pollution we are dealing with. Those are the multi-flyers. That is why I would like to put the question once again to Mr Stoffer, thinking that the people I know also exist, what his message is towards those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u177	I would say to those people: too bad, but just by car here in the Netherlands or a little bit in Europe is much better for the environment. And yes, those ordinary people I know are carpenter, bricklayer or schoolmaster. They're doing the vacations I give you. So I don't see that problem that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u178	In conclusion, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u179	Yes, concluding, Mr. Chairman. I am very surprised that Mr Stoffer gives this answer as a conclusion: unfortunately, let them figure it out. And the rich people in his neighborhood can keep flying. That is the conclusion of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u180	I don't know a lot of rich people. Actually, I don't know a lot of people going on a plane on vacation. Our worlds may be a little different. The ordinary people I know are other ordinary people than the SP. I think they have a little less to spend on us, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u181	Mr Stoffer continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u182	With the proceeds of the tickets, I would like, for example, to promote international rail traffic. That's what happens in Germany. There the flight tax increases and the tax on train tickets is reduced. I would say: that seems to me to be a very good goal tax. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what he thinks of this integrated approach and whether he has considered such an approach, such a scheme for the Netherlands as well. The cabinet now chooses to transfer the proceeds of the flight tax to the general funds, but specifically the proceeds are used to reduce charges for citizens and businesses. I am very curious to know how you actually fill that out and how it really ends up with those citizens and businesses. And again, I would prefer that we apply it directly to sustainability and therefore use it for, for example, lower charges on train tickets. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the freight. The SGP welcomes the fact that it is mainly used on tickets and less on freight. Indeed, freight has few alternatives to air transport. There will therefore also be much less behavioural effects aimed at sustainability due to a flight tax on cargo. What is involved here is that the Netherlands, as a trading country, can really be hit by such a high air tax on cargo. Surrounding countries, such as Germany, often do not have such an air tax. It has also been mentioned by colleagues that it could only be the case that, for example, in the case of the airport near Maastricht, airports in other countries will be emigrated. This raises road leakage effects for the Netherlands and can worsen the competitiveness of Dutch companies, of Dutch SMEs. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he sees this risk and how big he thinks it is. My question is also how the Secretary of State prevents Dutch industry from falling behind in competition. I am not the only one to notice this, because the Council of State also indicated that the air tax on cargo may have a greater impact than the government expects. There were, of course, simply reasons not to tax cargo on the flight tax introduced in 2008. At that time it was said that the impact could be that the volume of freight could decrease to 30%. I therefore have real reservations about the impact of the tax on freight and I have tabled an amendment to that effect. The question is whether I really will put that to the vote or not. That depends on the Secretary of State's argument. At the moment I still have the impression that it would be very good not to. I would specifically ask the Secretary of State to go into more detail on the comments of the Council of State. The VVD has already noted this, but I would also like to know whether the State Secretary will monitor the impact on the Dutch business community. Is that an evaluation after five years or is that going to happen much earlier? Mr President, my final point. In any case, the execution test carried out by the Tax Administration looks positive. In this respect, I would like the State Secretary's confirmation that the introduction of the flight tax by 2021 is really feasible by the Tax Administration. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u183	Thank you. You haven't spoken a little more than 20% of the given time. Finally, I am going to Mr Bruins on the side of the Chamber. He speaks for the Christian Union. I congratulate him in advance because he has requested by far the least speaking time; about a third of Mr Laçin's. Go ahead, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u184	Mr President, thank you very much for this compliment. First of all, I would like to extend my warmest regards to the Secretary of State for his first legislative debate. I look forward to exchanging views with him. Mr. Chairman. In debates of the Finance Committee, I have often said that the tax paragraph is perhaps the most beautiful paragraph in this coalition agreement. Working people are really improving this period. The growing gap between one and two earners has been brought to a halt. And families notice it in their wallets. In the field of taxation, the most important step is that we have agreed to reduce taxes on what is good and to increase taxes on what is not good: less taxes on income and labour and more taxes on excessive consumption and pollution. Fair pricing is necessary. Tonight we are taking a small but oh so important step in the right direction. This cabinet is introducing a tax on airline tickets. The burden relief that people can feel these years is, to a small extent, covered by people who fly a lot. And that was high time, because it finally makes the aviation sector an ordinary sector. Those who use the car or train pay tax, excise duty and VAT, but airlines pay nothing. That is not fair, because the 42% of Dutch people who do not fly annually pay for the tax exemption for aviation. The positive social impact of pricing pollution is reflected in the social cost-benefit analysis that has been applied to the proposed flight tax. In all variants and scenarios, the tax survey will increase wealth, because there are hardly any negative economic effects, but it will generate additional public benefits. As a result, other taxes can be reduced and people get to spend more. This leads to alternative consumption which is burdened. The prosperity gains also stem from the fact that foreign airlines and passengers contribute to the tax. Mr. Chairman. Of course, all external effects, such as environmental damage, should be included in the price of the ticket, but we are not at all yet. The price would therefore be so much higher that an international approach is necessary. Ideally, you're introducing a flight tax on a global scale. It's been remembered before. Second best is the introduction on a European scale. That's what the coalition agreement says. The rulers have had discussions with European colleagues on this subject, but after first encouraging noises it has become silent. How's that going? I'm asking the Secretary of State. Is there any progress? Because, of course, there are far smarter and more effective scenarios to come up with than the flat ticket tax that the cabinet is now putting in place, but then we need to tackle it at European level to ensure that competition remains fair. We can see that the neighbouring countries are already daring to go a lot further. We can even see President Trump going beyond most European countries. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is already looking forward to the next government agreement, which undoubtedly announces that this new button can be turned into our tax system. That could be a smart button. Can the Secretary of State outline in this context how the current bill relates to the plans for aviation in the European Green Deal? And how does this measure relate to a possible tax or tax? Excise duty on kerosene? This has a relatively more impact on emissions and ticket prices, and is easier to regulate bilaterally. How's that going? And is that next to this flight tax? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet finally opted for a flight tax per departing passenger, excluding transfer passengers. In doing so, the cabinet shows that it is actually already looking at Europe with a slanted eye. It is in line with the aviation taxes of other European countries. This avoids double taxation of passengers who start their journey at, for example, a German or French airport and who travel through Schiphol Airport. I understand. I do have questions about the flight tax on cargo. For the load of freight flights, a differentiation by noise class has been chosen. Noisy aircraft receive a higher rate per tonne of maximum permitted take-off weight than less noisy cargo aircraft. This may provide an incentive for airlines to fly modern cargo aircraft more quickly, but if the airlines are going to charge this to the Dutch entrepreneurs who want to export their products, then those entrepreneurs will not really be able to choose which aircraft their pallet of goods will carry. Is the financial incentive sufficient to make a real choice? Is the effect large enough to achieve market forces? In addition to price differentiation, could there be more transparency and freedom of choice for entrepreneurs, so that they know what the environmental impact is if they choose one airline or another to transport their goods? Finally, Mr President. When making laws, we must also always look closely at the consequences for the border region. In this case I also mention Maastricht Aachen Airport. Mr Slootweg already asked: has this law used the boundary effects guide within the comprehensive policy and regulatory framework? This may be very important, because since the written questions by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins of 7 November, we are fully aware that Liège airport is literally within cycling distance of Maastricht Aachen Airport. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u185	Thank you very much. You have not even used a quarter of your speaking time. We have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend the meeting until 9:05. I would suggest to the Secretary of State to give an opinion on the seven amendments tabled in his first term, including Mr Stoffer's amendment, which has just been distributed. He does not have to give that judgment in the first term, but my experience is that it does help the pace of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u186	The next item is the continuation of the treatment of the Air Tax Act. We need the first term from the government. I call the Secretary of State for Finance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What's better than being able to defend this bill as a new Secretary of State? It is not all perfect, but it is the bill that, as some have said, can indeed lead to a shift in thinking about the burden of flying. No excise duty is levied on the fuel for flies, no VAT is levied. Flying is actually being subsidised at the moment and that is not wise. That is simply not a sensible economic policy. That's why we change that. We are going to try to bring the social costs of flying into the price, as we try to do with everything. Are we gonna do that all the way? I will come back to the rates in detail later, also looking at Mr Snels. Are we gonna do it all? No, we're not quite doing it yet, we're taking a first step, as it's often called. Why can we do it now and why is it going to be effective? Why isn't it like 2008, 2009? That's because it's embedded in an international environment, wherever other countries do. France, Italy, Germany, Austria, Norway, Sweden and the UK all have a form of flight tax. And that is different from the last time in 2008, 2009. It must raise 200 million, as agreed in the coalition agreement. That's right. It's a deal, and we're gonna do it. As far as I am concerned, Mr President, I would like to refer to the purpose of this proposal, namely fiscal greening. Some people say: yes, that's all beautiful, but it has no influence, because people are not going to fly any less. This is due to the specific situation at Schiphol Airport, where there is a capacity restriction. That doesn't mean it will always be that way. I believe that is what Mr Van Weyenberg said. If you introduce an indirect tax, the demand normally goes down. It makes sense for you to introduce this tax, because she's greened. And two, you also want to serve a green purpose. That is the answer to Mr Snels' question. The aim is fiscal greening, ensuring that people use the polluting alternative less than the less polluting alternative. It has to be in a simple way, but I'll get back to the design later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u188	Mr. Van Raan wants to interrupt right away. I'm a little hesitant because the Secretary of State is still working on his introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u189	Sometimes in an introduction things are said that are not right, so we all go up the beet bridge when it is built on. The Secretary of State says: if the price goes up, the offer falls, and that's why it's a greening. But research has shown that price elasticity is negative, below 1. That means it has no influence in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u190	No, that's not the case. If the price elasticity is between 0 and 1, it does influence. What I'm trying to say is that the price through this proposal... No, I have to rephrase: the burden of this ticket tax is mainly borne by the airlines because of the specific situation at Schiphol Airport. The capacity restriction allows airlines to set their prices in this way. I return to Mr Van Raan because he himself started an impressive speech about changing your look at flying. What you're doing here is essentially taxing something that's polluting. And then I am not so impressed by the fact that at the moment the demand does not respond so much to the capacity restriction at Schiphol Airport. That is not a good argument not to introduce this tax. That's the point. Mr Slootweg asked which environmental objectives are actually being pursued here. Are we talking about more short-distance train journeys or more digital business or more road freight? There is no concrete goal attached to it, but to the design of the airline tax we introduce, you see that we are indeed aiming for substitution. Let me give you an example. I will come back to the rates later, but a lot of people have asked why we are doing such a flat rate. The idea behind that flat rate is, of course, that it weighs the most on short distances, because that is where the substitution is easier. That's the reasoning. In addition, a flat rate is much easier to implement and you will not blame this Secretary of State of the Tax Administration, given my first weeks, that he is also paying attention to the feasibility. That's why we're doing it this way, and those are the goals. Mr Slootweg also asked about noise. Is there a specific objective to reduce noise? Yes, the external costs of flying must be more in the price. But the external costs are not only CO, it is not only particulate matter, because it is also noise. That is why, in terms of freight rates, we have opted for this differentiation towards noisy and less noisy aircraft. So that is indeed an objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u191	I hesitated, but of course I made a big point of this. Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act is really an assignment to the Cabinet. I therefore really expect to read more in the explanatory memorandum on how Article 3.1 is followed. What exactly is the purpose? What are the objectives? How effective is it? How effective is it? The Council of State was also very critical of this. I understand the arguments and the political arguments about how that bill came about, but I would like to give the Secretary of State the following consideration: stick to the Compatibility Act and make sure that this kind of legislative proposal is explanatory in order, because it was not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u192	I take that to heart, but I am trying to do it now in my oral explanation to Mr Snels. If this has not been done sufficiently in the explanatory statement, we will take it to heart for the next time. What is the value of this proposal? That is a question from Mr Moorlag. He said: what is the value of this proposal if the incentive is so small and does so little? That's the same thing. The effect on the number of flights at Schiphol Airport is limited, as there is now a capacity restriction, a kind of lid on the number of flights, at that airport. Is that a reason not to do this? No, it's no reason not to do this. I think Mr Moorlag said that himself. The fiscal greening is in itself something that has value and you don't know if that lid will always be there this way. That is why we call this tax a greening. Let me see if I am out of line with the objectives. Some questions have also been asked about the accompanying policy. Mr Van Weyenberg did so, but he is not in the Chamber at the moment. Maybe it's better to wait till he gets here. I can also answer him now in the block on the main objective of the bill, but I really want to move on to the European route. Let me explain to you why I am starting the European route. Mr. Chairman. I believe that there is no longer any flown from Schiphol to Maastricht, but I am not sure. I sometimes took a flight from Schiphol Airport to Maastricht with a lot of turbulence and you do not want to do that. But since there is no longer a flight from Schiphol Airport to Maastricht, flying is international. What makes more sense than to pursue international policy when flying? That's what you want and I'm going to try to explain later that the limit we have chosen, €7 per ticket and not transfer passengers, also comes a little from the fact that we don't have the ideal international solution yet. By the way, some people think that €7 is a little low. I shall come back to Mr Snels' question in a moment to see if I can get a look at it. How do you see it, and preferably without the international side? I'm not gonna do that last thing! I'm really going to do it internationally, because in the end this is an international file. Even if you do it Europeanly, you have to watch out for the hub function of Schiphol and other European hubs in relation to the hubs just outside Europe, Istanbul and Dubai. This is an international file. The European route is therefore essential. The European Commission should come up with proposals. Some members said that what is said in the Green Deal is actually a bit disappointing. Yes and no. What Timmermans says in the Green Deal is that he's going to consider the current exemption on kerosene. And he's going to do something about the fact that some cheap ETS rights are being given to the aviation sector. So he's gonna do those things. I was asked in a number of ways what I am going to do in the European approach. I should like to comment on that now. I note that the European approach is, in fact, even better: the global approach is the right one. But I also note that it is not quite there yet. That is why a number of Members of your Chamber asked questions about this. I should like to go into that now. In February 2018, a letter was sent to former European Commissioner Moscovici explaining the Dutch position. The European Commission is asked to take initiatives. On 5 March 2018, this letter was presented orally to Mr Moscovici. He then explained that he was thinking and that he would like, among other things, to amend the European Energy Taxation Directive. I say this to Mr Snels, because the file we met for the first time was the issue of unanimity on the European Energy Taxation Directive. That could have something to do with the kerosene tax. Now, if you were to have European policies on kerosene or on VAT or, if you want to make it even wilder, a European proposal for a ticket tax, then the agreement we made in the cabinet would replace the tax that is less perfect, namely the current tax, with a European tax. Mr Snels rightly says that you must be very careful to ensure that the European tax is as good as the national tax. Of course, he's right about that. I come to Europe sometimes; I've been there before. What I really want to do is to go to the Eurogroup and Ecofin on Monday or Tuesday. After all, there is a lot of economic activity in Europe. There I could once again address the current Commissioner Gentiloni on what the European Commission can do more than it is doing at the moment. Commissioner Gentiloni was due to visit tomorrow in the Netherlands, but he is not doing so because of corona. I would like to discuss with him whether we can explore this European route further. That can be anything: excise duty on kerosene, VAT on airline tickets or the pricing of airline tickets. I myself believe that bilateral agreements, i.e. with small groups, in the field of kerosene taxation or VAT, pose the risk of competitive effects. Mrs. Lodders asked for that, too. If only Germany and the Netherlands do so, there is little reason to believe that this would be beneficial for Charles de Gaulle et cetera, et cetera. Trying to do that at European Union level is a really good solution. I will also say a few words about what that can mean for the rates, because that was also a question from the Chamber. But I see someone with a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u193	That call was made by the former Secretary of State. I would actually like to ask the Secretary of State to use the debate in Brussels to ensure that a European flight tax becomes part of the Green Deal separately, via VAT, through excise duty or a combination thereof. Does the Secretary of State agree with my group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u194	I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that this could be the stake. I'd be happy to discuss that with him, too. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u195	Just so we're clear, though. I agree with the Secretary of State that a European wide solution is by far preferable to national solutions. But the previous Secretary of State has made it clear that a leading group of countries is still a possibility. VAT is not possible, and we must do so throughout the European Union, but a flight tax can do something about kerosene excise duty with a leading group of countries. I would appreciate that, especially since I myself found that our competitors Charles de Gaulle, Frankfurt and London have higher flight taxes in our neighbouring countries. It should be possible to keep that on the agenda as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u196	I mainly responded to the idea of bilateral agreements, but maybe it's just here in words. It depends, of course, on how big the breakaway is whether this makes sense or not. A breakaway is a bit of a breakaway, I'm just trying to say. It doesn't matter how big this breakaway is. By the way, some things need to be regulated at European level. Mr Snels rightly says so if you want to use European directives and laws, but so does Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u197	Certainly, but still with some urgency: we see that the flight tax in neighbouring countries is already higher than in the Netherlands, even after this bill. This means that there must be room for further steps with England, France, Germany and perhaps Belgium, which are really the neighbouring countries that are our competitors. I really think that the Secretary of State should continue to work for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u198	I'd be happy to. If I can understand it so that bilaterally did not mean anything, maybe it's in the word "I'm saying that maybe it's not meant to be with the whole of the EU, I think you were trying to say that, then the answer is: yes, I'll be happy to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u199	Do I understand correctly that the discussions with the Commissioner in this regard are going to be more or less parallel with the revision of the Energy Taxation Directive? That we don't have to wait for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u200	That's right. Talks in which you work with a leading group of countries, as Mr Snels just pointed out and what Mrs Lodder asked for, can of course take place in parallel with what is happening in Brussels in legislative processes. A revision of such a directive simply takes a long time, partly because I am afraid to say that unanimity is required to change such a directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u201	In fact, I understand that the current Secretary of State says: I am going to go along with my predecessor to see what we can achieve at European level, and that directive does not determine the pace we are going to look for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u202	"On the line" and rather I would like to be able to continue the work of Menno Snel quickly in such a way that results can also be achieved in the sense of real agreements. Mr Snel has done a number of things. He has organized a conference and brought countries together, and I would like to build on that. I still have to find out which countries they were. Mrs Lodder asked if I could report on that. I will be happy to do so, and I think it would be best if I did so in the Ecofin Council as soon as I have something to say here again. I'll tell Mrs. Lodders, Mr. Chairman. I still have to get used to that. Which brings me to the block about the design. That's actually the biggest block of my answer. There is a lot to do about the design of the flight tax. I can elaborate on all the studies that have been carried out, but I do not think that is the most interesting. The most interesting thing is to talk to each other about the questions you've asked. The explanation of the design does not seem to me to be necessary. It seems particularly interesting to me to address the questions that have been asked about the tariff setting and so on. Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Raan asked why the cabinet chose that rate of €7. That's actually a key question that kept coming back. Of course, it started with the EUR 200 million that has been used as a task. The cabinet has tried to strike a balance between different interests with this €7. You can say you're unhappy about that and you want to double that. I will, of course, see that in an amendment later. Well, I am afraid I have to give a real political answer to that: if we double it, there will be no majority in this Chamber. I am looking at Mr Van Raan again and others who said that I am creating a shift in thinking about flight tax. I would really like to express that in a law. That's what we do here. So I agree with those who say it's a small step; the word "mice step" was somewhat over the top. It's a small step, but it's a change in flying. And it's a change that compared to the last time we tried it, in 2008/2009, also has a real chance of success.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u203	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u204	That is why I would like to defend this proposal passionately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u205	Then a question of conscience to the Secretary of State, and questions of conscience are always difficult to answer. What does the Secretary of State actually think of the SMEA's seeing that doubling the flight tax from €7 to €14 would still be far below the price in the neighbouring countries, for example in England? What does the Secretary of State think of us making political decisions in the Netherlands in this way? So not looking at what is the best outcome at the social level, but "because it has been agreed in a coalition agreement that it should only be 200 million, I can't do otherwise." How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u206	I just said how I feel about that. I said that I am giving this bill with this €7 ticket price a good chance of being passed in Parliament. And that is what I think at the moment, I say to Mr Snels and to others, consider the perfect design. If we double, there are directly members of this Chamber who will say: and the competitive position of Schiphol then, et cetera. Then you can... Then Mr Snels can I still have to get used to it, Mr President-in-Office... think that that is not a good argument and that the SMEA shows something else, but this is the political situation that I have to deal with. And that's why we designed the bill as it was designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u207	I didn't refer to Quality Insight for nothing. This also requires a mandate from the cabinet: not only to look at the political laws that indicate that we need to talk about instruments and that we have political taboos. I understand all that; politics is a complicated business. But the mission of Insight in Quality is that you do use the insights of research and that you do want the best possible social outcomes. That's why it was kind of a question of conscience. I understand the real political answer, but I would like to answer the question of conscience: how would the Secretary of State prefer to have decision-making on these issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u208	Now you're making it too hard for me. The research shows that this has a positive welfare effect and, in technical terms, a positive SMEA. That is enough for me to be able to defend this bill passionately here. Can you do better? Is there any other way? Could it be more perfect? Yeah, maybe all of them. But then there's the secretary of state trying to defend a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u209	I appreciate that the Secretary of State is so open and honest about the political reality and that he does not dwell on that. But in addition to what Mr Snels says, the following. We do have a tradition here of fact-based politicians and important advisory bodies. Are we to conclude that all these advisory bodies and all these investigations have actually been done for nothing, because there is a certain political reality? Or does the Secretary of State hope that the coalition factions, who have devised this compromise, may have another thunderbolt of wisdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u210	No, Mr. Chairman. I think that lightning bolt's already hit. The coalition, as I see it, supports this bill. That is the huge step forward that we can take at the moment. That is a step forward. We now have a chance to introduce a flight tax. Then we go back to what this debate started with and what Mr Moorlag himself really emphasized. He said: this is a major change in the way we look at airline ticket taxation, and we are finally breaking the taboo on this. We are doing this in a realistic way now. I'll come back to the feasibility later. Why did we keep all this so simple with €7, flat, et cetera? I said something about substitution with other forms of transport, but it also has something to do with simplicity. That's why we designed it as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u211	I'm realistic, too. I have also said that this proposal has been poured into coalition concrete. Let me put it this way. There are two categories of suboptimal proposals: intelligent suboptimal proposals and non-intelligent suboptimal proposals. Does the Secretary of State understand that I think it is a bit, even though I think this is a step forward, that this clearly belongs to the last category?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u212	Or I understand that you think so, and I can answer that. I understand you think so, but I don't think so. I think this is an intelligent suboptimal solution to a difficult problem. If we were in a perfect world where we could better coordinate internationally what we did, maybe we could move on. At the end of my speech, I will go into Mr Snels' question one more time, taking the international side again. If we were in a coordinated approach in which we could take countries with us and where there could be no false competition, we would probably have come up with another proposal. But that's not there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u213	My question concerns the following. In view of the fact that it is a real political approach that the Secretary of State is pursuing, I appreciate his honesty and we are now talking about the design, I would like to take one step back. He also said that we've taken a step, that we're doing something new. My question is whether he endorses the analysis I gave in my speech, namely that we are in a new era and that we should no longer be the triangle economy, living environment and climate guiding how we control aviation, but the triangle climate, living environment and safety. Because then we really are in a new reality. Then you can still do realpolitik, but at least we will be in the new reality. Does the Secretary of State endorse that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u214	I don't know if I would choose the same words, but the fact is that we are actually trying to argue that we are introducing this flight tax in the Netherlands, given the design, the fact is that the climate is paramount and the fact is that we are trying to internalize external costs. We've never done that before. We tried once. That is, of course, proof of the fact that something has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u215	I don't know who was talking about that mouse step later, but I think this proposal... Was it Mr. Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u216	No, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u217	Oh, Van Raan. Well, I think it's a mouse jump. But that aside. Let's go to the realpolitik. There is a proposal here, but what is more beautiful than that on the left side of the GroenLinks cabinet and on the right side of the cabinet the SGP together really want to be the supporters to push this proposal up a little bit, to €15? It'll have to go to the First Chamber in a minute. Well, I'd know if I had to make realpolitik. Then I think: hey, then you have a majority there. Isn't that a consideration for the Secretary of State, while he's working on realpolitik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u218	I was afraid I would be misunderstood once I used the word "realpolitik." What I'm trying to say is that I still have 2008/2009 in my head, with a higher rate and with other countries that didn't. It was more complicated than what we had now and it didn't work. It was in the middle of an economic crisis, by the way. That also played a role. That's how this went down. I've been hired on this job to make things work. I want to enter something that works and that's simple. I believe that this proposal can count on a majority here. I'm not going over the other house. I'm not gonna answer that either. I think that this is the proposal at the moment that is most supportive and that is best supported. That's what I mean by realpolitik. It is also feasible. It's simple. It's explainable. That is why I support this proposal. That's what I mean by realpolitik. I'm not trying to set up a very political game here with the First Chamber. I'm not interested in that right now. I'm defending the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u219	I can imagine that, but I'm just gonna give you the tip. I think the same Secretary of State will join the First Chamber one day. It will give you more comfort if you have also voted in favour of those parties. But I get it. It's still a very narrow thing at the moment. By the way, the cabinet only has 75 seats here. That's not a majority. So I'd think again anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u220	I didn't hear a question. I heard a tip to think. I always do. Mr Stoffer also asked me why I chose one rate. I have tried to explain that this is a simple thing to do and that b choosing one flat rate makes the substitution to other modes more simple: that you also take the train once easier. Then the differentiation economy class and business class, so the regular class and the business class. I have sympathy for it. We didn't choose it because the airport is the one who finally makes the report, as you could read in the explanatory memorandum and in the law. Airports do not have this information. It can be done in France and the United Kingdom, because that is where the airlines are subject to tax. We have chosen to make this flight tax as simple as possible. There are very few parties that report it. That's just national airports. They simply don't have this information. So I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u221	That is the amendment to item No. 11 on differentiation and doubling of rates by Mr Snels and Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u222	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u223	Mr. Snels on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u224	I got the execution test, the quick scan, on my amendment. It takes a little more information. The most important argument in the execution test is, I think, when I look at it quickly, that it is fraud-prone. The point was made before. Air carriers can set up their planes differently. Then it is no longer clear whether it is first or second class. I would say that with some samples by the Tax Administration that is best checked. If fraud and abuse are committed, it will end with a few high fines. So it's a little more complex, but I don't think it's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u225	I am not saying that it is impossible, but we have now opted for a system which we hope will be in operation. We have some problems with our performance. That's what we run into each other about every now and then. Here is really chosen for the simple solution, the simple, executable solution. I would like to see whether I can come back to this again in the second term and whether that execution test can be looked at again, but as I read it here and as I hear it, this is not wise. We're going to saddle the Tax Administration with more work than we really need, while we can also keep it simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u226	I am very sensitive to arguments that we should not make it more difficult for the Tax Administration than they already are, but this is ultimately about implementation at airports and airlines. They just have to deliver the information. The only thing that's more complicated is that the tax authorities have to check every once in a while to see if the data they get is true. But as with many types of taxation, this is done with samples and risk analyses. So that doesn't have to mean that every plane needs to be checked. So in terms of execution, it's not that difficult for the Tax Administration. You just need to think about how you'd like to deal with fraud. I would appreciate it if we could have a little more clarity about that. We're all gonna write an election program. I can just imagine that D66 is going to be in the election program writing that there should be a business class flight tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u227	I would like to come back to that in a second term, but for now my judgement on the amendment remains unadvised. This was also true of the amendment to double the price of the ticket tax, but that had already become clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u228	That was no. 12, that is to say, the amendments to Parts Nos. 11 and 12 are both dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u229	Why not tax per seat instead of per ticket? Airlines are, of course, striving to get their planes as full as possible, so we already have an incentive to do so. The occupancy rates of the aircraft are generally very high, so I think the choice for a tax per ticket is well justified, also because you really want this tax to be visible to the person who buys the ticket. If you wanted to promote external effects, Mr Van Weyenberg asked, isn't it true that you would have to make the rate much higher? The answer is simply yes, but that was not the starting point. Then we'll be back in the circle where we just found ourselves. For Amsterdam, the external costs are estimated at around €16,000 per departing flight. You can't cover that now with the flight tax and the plane ticket tax. That seems to me to be a clear answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u230	Does this mean that you have Amendment No 1 to the motion for a resolution? 13 by Mr Van Raan for higher rates also advises?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u231	Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u232	So Amendment No. 13 has also been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u233	Mr. Chairman. Quite a few questions have been asked about the revenue from the flight tax and backlock. Why was it not chosen to invest in making the aviation sector more sustainable? How will the proceeds be used in concrete terms to reduce the burden? That was a question from Mr Stoffer, but I thought Mr Moorlag also said a lot about it. I don't see it in my answers right now, so I'm speaking to him now. The thought has simply been here as, I thought, Mr Bruins said in his speech that you are doing this kind of thing. You charge a plane ticket tax and in the optimal situation you do not link it to a category of expenditure. The Chamber isn't usually very happy about that either. Normally, you just lock that back to the treasury. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that the proceeds of 200 million would be returned to the treasury and used to reduce income tax, labour taxes. It was Mr Bruins, I thought, who I could almost literally join: this is the logical way to deal with these kinds of taxes and revenues, and not to link this to revenue. I understand Mr Moorlag's reasoning that people will see better what happens to their money. That's an argument, but it's usually not a very good argument to link it precisely to sustainability or to a targeted thing. Mr Moorlag argued in favour of using it somewhere in energy taxes, but eventually it ends up in the treasury and finally, as I thought Mr Bruins argued quite clearly, there is another tariff coming out of it. So cardigan pocket pocket. It seems to me the simplest thing to do is to pour this into the treasury and thereby ensure that the income and wages tax is lower. That's actually the very simple reasoning here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u234	I could justify that argument if it were in practice. But in practice, we already have one of those vehicles. We have the storage of renewable energy. It is used to subsidise the generation of renewable energy. Also bearing in mind what Mr Stoffer said: governing is a bit forward-looking, even at the Upper House. I'm not looking to increase the burden on citizens at all, but I'm looking for a smart way to get you greener. Not an increase in charges, but a replacement of charges. In this context, it might well be conceivable to double the rate, as the amendments say, and not to spend the proceeds in the treasury but to use it to reduce the storage of renewable energy. I believe that this is good for explainability to citizens and that this also helps to stimulate the intended effect, change in behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u235	I feel like two discussions are about to get mixed up. We are talking on the one hand about the level of the rate. That is what Mr Moorlag is saying, and I have said something about it before. The other argument is, what do you use it for? However, I think that the golden rule that tax revenue is not in principle linked to expenditures is an example; you are right in saying that it is better to use it. Mr Moorlag is actually adding a third question: if it were to be increased further, could you do so? That's a bit in the category of what-if questions, which I shouldn't answer for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u236	Then I'm not gonna ask you about that either. However, I do recommend to the Secretary of State to allow it in his mind, and in the future we will also have to talk about an adjustment of the rate that we do not allow it to flow into the treasury in a generic way, but that we will use it as a source of financing for the generation of renewable energy. We're picking it up from the households now. We're charging the resume boilers now, but I want the jet engines loaded. That's what drives me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u237	Of course, we share that last remark. That's what I want. I want to tax the pollution and relieve the cleanness. That is exactly why we are trying to relieve labour from burdens. That's an ugly sentence, but you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u238	I would like to join in one of those last statements by the Secretary of State: taxing pollution and reducing the cost of clean water. I understand that you don't want to link this revenue directly to anything, but would it be an idea to lower VAT on international train tickets later on in the new tax plan, which we are going to establish again this year? If we mention this with each other now, at least we have said that the one thing is going up, but the alternative transport, going somewhere in Europe by train, we are making it a little cheaper. Then people get an extra incentive to get off the plane and take the train. What does the Secretary of State think of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u239	To quote a statement by Mr Moorlag just now: I want to allow that in my thinking. But I know my neighbor in the department. In the end, he's dealing with the batty balance in the treasury. I do not know if he would appreciate it if I made a commitment now that costs money, because that is, of course, what Mr Stoffer says. The 200 million has already been entered in the books, as Mr Stoffer knows. I would like to allow myself to think that it might be a good idea to promote substitution by thinking about VAT on international train tickets. Someone else said the same thing in his term, I thought. I want to allow that in my thinking, but of course there is no way I can make a commitment to that. But Mr Stoffer understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u240	It's good that the seed is planted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u241	I would like to join very briefly in allowing you to think. Apart from the fact that we in the Netherlands have a very low tax on air traffic, the opposite is true. In the countries around us, the VAT on train tickets, including international train tickets, is lower than in the Netherlands. Would the Secretary of State be willing to allow himself to explore it, write a letter about it or make an inventory of it, to see how we could reverse that? I believe that this is also very useful for future discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u242	I'll take a look at the backup in the benches. Are Irene and Jurjen getting very nervous about an overview? I don't think that's too bad. So I'm gonna do that more. I'll allow it in my mind, and I'll tell you in the second term whether I'm really going to do it or not. Then I really asked them if I'd be thrown out right away. Mr. Chairman. I've come to cargo. I think I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u243	Then may I interrupt you for a moment? There is one other component of the design, which is about passengers. That is the amendment on the inclusion of transfer passengers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u244	Yes. I actually wanted to do it at the end, looking at the international side. But I can do that now. It's basically simple. Bringing transfer passengers now really means something for the competitive position of the airport Schiphol as a network. Schiphol has many disadvantages, such as noise, dirt and CO. But one of the great advantages of Schiphol Airport is that I have had a long career in Economic Affairs, which we talk about very often.It is an international class airport next to the heart of the Randstad, almost in the heart of the Randstad. That has major drawbacks; I told you that. But it also has advantages. When it comes to the transfer passengers and the hub function, you have to be extremely careful. The network effect of this is important and significant. So I would not be in favour of it at the moment. You want, of course, a shorter answer to the question of whether I would advise against the amendment or not. The answer is yes; I advise against it. But I do not advise against this on principle; I advise against it because taxing transfer passengers like other countries is dangerous. That's why I wouldn't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u245	The amendment in part No. 10 has been dissuaded. The Secretary of State continues his argument with the cargo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u246	Yes, I'd like to say a few words about cargo. I would particularly like to focus on the situation in Maastricht Aachen. Mrs Lodders and Mr Laçin asked for that, but that was actually the case for everyone. Many people have asked about the position of Maastricht Aachen. I do not believe that people are directly concerned about the position of Schiphol in relation to these tariffs. By the way, the question was asked about the Council of State. When the proposal was before the Council of State, there were other freight rates in it than in this proposal. If I remember correctly, it was about double what we have now. That is the answer to that. As a result of what the Council of State said, we have chosen lower rates, but I do think there is a point to the question: have you looked carefully at the position of individual airports when it comes to freight? Then I think that the concerns of the Chamber are on the point of Maastricht Aachen. Perhaps it is just sensible that we should have another look at what this rate means for the position of Maastricht Aachen, research focused on this airport and the effects of the tariff charge on freight. I think that's wise. If things were to get out of there that were disturbing, we could always take that into account if we were to actually implement the law. That would be my thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u247	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this commitment, because I think that is indeed a great concern for a large part of the Chamber. This is also about the deadline for the Secretary of State to come forward with the findings, with a kind of border impact assessment, around Maastricht Aachen. 'Cause I think it's important that that could happen for Prince's Day. If that's possible, I'd like to ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u248	Someone I forgot for a moment who exactly asked me to do that with the Tax Plan. So that would mean Prince's Day. I'm just looking at advisors. I think it's safe to say I'm delivering that look on Prince's Day. I'd give it a shot if it's there before, but we need to take a look at it. I think the Tax Plan would be the logical moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u249	From that, I simply understand that the goal is to deliver it for Princess' Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u250	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u251	I also welcome this commitment because people are concerned about it. The air freight sector is concerned about developments, both at Schiphol Airport and at Maastricht Aachen Airport. I wonder what this means for the bill. 'Cause we're gonna do some research now. All motions and amendments have now been tabled; at least the motions will be tabled shortly. Then we'll vote on Tuesday. It won't be me, but I think this law will be passed in this Chamber. Then comes Prinsjesdag that research, specifically focused on Maastricht Aachen Airport. Then what is the value of this investigation, and is it perhaps wise to await that investigation before this bill is put to the vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u252	No, that was not asked by those who asked this question either. There were some people who were worried about this. There's no reason to wait for the bill to be passed. If the rates should be adjusted, but let's do that research before we start answering all kinds of questions, then we can always do that. You can do that at all times. As Mr Laçin also knows, the implementation of the bill takes place through a royal decree later in the year. So this really seems to me to be the right order of things. Let's see what the effects are first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u253	That is also my proposal: that we should first look at the effects and then vote on this law. The Secretary of State is now saying that this is a what-as-scenario. It's not a what-if scenario. The conclusion is simply clear. We are about to pass a law, at least, the Chamber is going to adopt a law, in which no thorough investigation has been carried out into possible road leaks from Maastricht Aachen Airport. I suggest that that is the right order, so we do thorough research first and then do the further treatment of this law. I hope that the Secretary of State agrees with me and, above all, with the air freight sector that we need to get to the bottom of this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u254	No, now it's really going the wrong way. I'm gonna be a little sharper now. The impact of the freight rate has been investigated. Those effects were big when we had a double rate. They have now been calculated. The problem we have here is a problem of Maastricht Aachen. There is substitution possible with Liège; on the bike, as one of your members here said. But there is no reason not to vote on this law. We're gonna do some quiet research. That Mr Laçin already knows the conclusion of the investigation, I leave it to him. I don't know that conclusion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u255	In conclusion, Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u256	I think the Secretary of State misunderstands what I'm saying. I don't know the outcome either. That's the problem. I want to know the outcome before I vote on a law. If I do that now... My vote is already clear in my opinion, but if this law is passed and it turns out that the substitution at Maastricht Aachen Airport is so large that a huge number of jobs are lost there, then I wonder how the Secretary of State will explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u257	I don't think I should go into what-as-scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u258	I am pleased that the Secretary of State shares the concerns that I and my colleagues have raised. However, I would like to take up the question in writing. It states that the bill does not determine the behaviour of passengers and freighters per airport. I think that's important. So can the Secretary of State undertake that the research that is to take place is of course specific to Maastricht Aachen but also to the other regional airports, because we have been very focused in the investigations at Schiphol Airport. So I think it is important to include that in the investigation or the floor stroke that is going to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u259	I'm gonna see what we can do in time. I thought the concerns were mainly about Maastricht Aachen, because there the substitution possibilities for cargo are very large with Liège. I think that was the point that was made. I'm trying to answer that. If we can also look at other things... But I think that's gonna be difficult, because I think it's gonna be complicated to do this by regional airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u260	The main concern is indeed towards Maastricht Aachen. That is also what I said in the debate here, and that was also the reason for the written questions. I think it would be good if we looked at the other regional airports as well. This may be less profound, but it is important to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u261	I will come back to it in the second term or I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u263	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the heading execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u264	May I interrupt you for a moment? The heef Stoffer has tabled an amendment which also deals with cargo. If I understand correctly, that's about not introducing a fare for cargo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u265	Thank you, Mr President. I therefore advise against that amendment. I am replacing that with this commitment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u266	That is the point of the amendment. 14 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u267	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the execution. I think Mr Slootweg has asked a question about flight tax in case of cancellation. Is that right? Yeah, I thought so. What happens if the flight is cancelled? Does the passenger receive the calculated flight tax? That depends on the cancellation policy. Airports only pay airport tax for passengers who actually leave. For airlines, these costs will be passed on to the airport. They will charge them in advance in the ticket price. If a passenger does not leave, in retrospect there was no flight tax to pass on and a seat is available on the plane. Exactly how airlines deal with this in their cancellation policy depends on the airline. But if a passenger were to get the entire purchase amount back in case of cancellation, that would include the charged flight tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u268	Very briefly. We feel that this is a little more uniform abroad. In fact, the Secretary of State says that it really differs from one airline to another in the terms of cancellation. It can therefore vary even within a airline per flight how it is handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u269	Yes. The short answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u270	The only thing I would like to ask the Secretary of State is: would it be possible to do that at all in the short term to see how such a situation is dealt with abroad? As far as we can ascertain, it will always be returned there and there will be no differentiation per airline or even per flight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u271	I'll check it out and then I'll get back to you in the second term. Mr Slootweg also asked: how do we deal with private jets? There's no difference between whether there's a private plane or not. Passengers on board a private jet are therefore also subject to a flight tax. I would like to say quite frankly that there is a minimum allowed take-off weight above which the ticket tax will only apply. That's 8,616 kilograms. If the private jet weighs less, I have no idea what a thing like that weighs. But a little private jet must be heavier, I guess. Mr Stoffer's question is, of course, the truth for the State Secretary of the Tax Administration: can you confirm that the introduction is really possible by 2021? Mr. Stoffer, the answer to that is yes. I have asked you several times; you can imagine that. Mr Slootweg asked about the link with the collection system. It is planned that the link with the collection system will take place between 1 January and 1 July 2021. Let's see. That brings me to a number of different questions. Mr Bruins asked: has this law been used to guide border effects? I say to Mr Bruins that this legislative proposal takes account of the comprehensive framework for consideration. The guiding principle did not exist at the time, but the balancing framework seems to be testing, among other things, a legislative proposal for effectiveness, efficiency and feasibility. That was checked by CE Delft in her investigation. The results have been incorporated into the choice for the bill. Mr Van Raan asked: should aviation go to the new reality? We talked about that. You asked me this question again. I'm just checking to see if there's anything important I'm missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u272	There are two further amendments tabled by Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u273	I'll come back to that, Mr. Chairman. Before I go to the amendments, I will reply briefly to Mr Snels' question: what would I do if I lived in a dream world? I'm not gonna take Mr. Snel's dream world. I take my own dream world. My own dream world is now serious that we could make international agreements on this. If we could make international agreements on this, you could think about it. I just gave a quick look at it to include the transfer passengers in the tax, just to give you an example. That's one look at it. Of course, I'm not saying... It's still complicated. I have already tried to illustrate that as far as the hub function of Schiphol is concerned, you need to look more broadly than just Europe. But I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u274	It hurts a realpolitiker like me in the heart to be accused of a dream world. Actually, I had the following question. We will soon have a lot of explorations, for example on the revision of the tax system in the next cabinet period. I fully understand the framework conditions of the coalition agreement within which this proposal was drawn up. But I asked, and I could have done that in the explanatory statement: if it all fails in Europe, what is the perspective, for example in the next cabinet period, to make the proposal more effective, to differentiate more, to increase it? I was actually asking about things like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u275	I'm gonna try one more time anyway, my way. Let's see if we can understand each other. I would say: let me take a little course in Europe to see if we can achieve something there with that leading group, as it was mentioned earlier, or perhaps at the level of the European Union. If that is possible, then I think you can come up with airline policy in Europe, and perhaps also in the Netherlands, which is even more effective than this wonderful proposal. I think that should be possible. But I also think that the international side is really the restriction. That is my view. Otherwise, you're pushing things across the border, which you actually think is undesirable. That is my answer. My general answer would be: the more international you are going to work, the more there can be. That's my insight into reality, isn't it? I am just checking to see if I have included the amendments in my reply. I think I certainly did not take one, and that is Mrs Lodder's amendment on a horizon clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u276	That's right. That is the amendment to item No. 8. The amendment in part No. 9 is on the evaluation assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u277	Yes, let me begin with the amendment to item No. Eight, if it's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u278	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u279	The aim of this amendment is to automatically abolish the national levy if a European tax is introduced. We are not at all different about the performance here, because this is about literally what is in the explanatory statement. But I do want to avoid double taxation. So I understand very well what Mrs Lodder is doing, but I do not think we should do this through an amendment. I'm just gonna say that because it's very complicated in terms of law. I thought Mr Snels said this in a brief interruption. We do not know what the European tax will look like. What is the criterion? Is that the 200 million? Are those the effects? I've been thinking a lot about this yesterday, Mrs. Lodders. That can be confirmed by the people I've been tormenting with all kinds of ideas about this. If Mrs Lodders would like to record this, I am not, of course, going about her actions. It is more useful to put this into a motion than in the form of an amendment, I think. That would be my proposal, because this doesn't make the law any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u280	And your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u281	The judgment is therefore dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u282	The amendment in part No. 8 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u283	Before I start to dissuade everything, I say that I also have an amendment that I am not going to dissuade. That is the amendment to item No. 9 by Mrs Lodders on an earlier evaluation than after five years. I would just like to read out what Mrs Lodders literally said in the amendment: after two years, the flight tax for freight has been evaluated for effectiveness and impact with specific attention to the effects on sustainability, border effects and impact at regional airports such as Maastricht Aachen Airport. I don't have a problem with that. In principle, five years is the normal period, but a mid-term evaluation is also possible. So that's where the verdict would be for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u284	The amendment in part No. 9 has Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u285	Did I have them all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u286	Yeah, and all the questions, 'cause everybody stays put. So you're at the end of your first term. Oh, look, now I'm too fast again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u287	I just wanted to get back to the cargo for a minute to focus on something. The Secretary of State has promised that he will provide the Chamber with an investigation of the possible road leak effects of Maastricht Aachen Airport before Prinsjesdag. Does the Secretary of State also include the possible effects on Schiphol Airport or is it really purely about Maastricht Aachen Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u288	Could I come back to that in the second term? Because I don't know how freight transport is distributed across the different airports. Mr Laçin will forgive me for that. The bulk is of course at Schiphol Airport, but Maastricht is an important cargo airport. That's why you're asking, of course. When you look at Maastricht, I don't know if the rest is Schiphol. May I come back to that in second place? I just don't know the technical answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u289	Clear. I have a motion on this. I'll just file it in the second term and we'll see what we can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u290	Yeah, you'll get the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u291	I asked another question about climate. I may be wrong, but at least I didn't hear the answer. Is that still possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u292	Yes, that may still be possible, but I think I should refer to the second term, because the answer is not in my set. I didn't run into it. I therefore refer to the second term. Sorry. I apologize to Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u293	Perhaps that could also apply to the next question. I asked a question about cargo planes that place a certain number of seats, which makes them passenger planes and the cargo is no longer taxed; that loophole in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u294	I remember the question and again: please second term. Excuse me. I know, but I can't get it out of my head right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u295	Fine. No problem. I propose that we proceed immediately with the second term of office to keep the pace a little. The first speaker is Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. Thank you also for the response to us somewhat philosophically tinted speech, with which it was no less important. The tilting of epochs and positions often accelerates what was previously unthinkable. Once we are in the new reality where aviation takes place within climate, environment and safety, we will all see that it can happen very quickly. Another observation. We talk a great deal about it being made through Europe, but all such agreements are made at UN level, at ICAO level. Countries can already influence that. These agreements are bothering us because we want to act now. They seep through to European regulations. We are suffering from this again, because there is nothing we can do because we have to wait for Europe. Does the Secretary of State see a route to deal with these cases directly in ICAO context and possibly much faster? I have four motions. I'll start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Air Traffic Tax Act may not be introduced if European legislation on aviation taxation is adopted;]] [[considers it undesirable that this European regulation would lead to a lower financial impact than in the proposed Air Transport Tax Act;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to European agreements or regulations that would lead to a lower financial impact than in the Aviation Tax Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Air Traffic Tax Act provides for an exception for cargo on passenger aircraft;]] [[noting that this makes it technically possible to avoid the load, for example by placing a few passenger seats in a cargo aircraft;]] [[calls on the Government to close this loophole in the Air Traffic Tax Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Moorlag and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-16]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u297	Maybe we'll hold the previous motion, depending on the answer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that, as a result of the Van Raan/Kröger motion adopted (31936), No. 600) limit values will be developed for aviation in the areas of climate, living environment and safety;]] [[calls on the Government to bring the Dutch aviation sector within these limits of climate, living environment and human and animal safety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a limited group of consumers fly relatively often;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Air Traffic Tax Act can be applied or supplemented in a progressive manner, with the aim of encouraging frequent pilots to take the train more often,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-18]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u298	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u299	Thank you. I call Mr Laçin on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The answer of the Secretary of State has not been able to remove our concerns about this law. I honestly didn't expect that either. You will hear throughout the debate that the proceeds of 200 million were agreed in the coalition agreement. What it brings about for the climate, the environment and noise pollution really doesn't matter very much. That is my aftertaste of this debate. We are going to make money out of the state treasury, while on the other hand, I mentioned it in an interruption debate with the VVD as from next year, giving 2.4 billion dollars to multinationals. It just doesn't work for me. Mr. Chairman. I hammered on a multi-flying pole, not a flat tax. That is why I voted in favour of Mr Van Raan's motion. Should this flight tax be introduced, I think it is important that it does not return to the general state treasury, but that we invest in sustainable alternatives. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the revenue from the flight tax in the bill is returned to the general budget;]] [[noting that the measure will have little effect on the number of passengers;]] [[noting that the direct effect of this fiscal greening measure does not exist, and because the money disappears in the large pot it does not indirectly achieve greening measures;]] [[Whereas for distances of up to 750 kilometres the train should be a good alternative to the aircraft, but additional investment is still needed;]] [[calls on the Government to use the potential proceeds of this flight tax to invest in sustainable alternatives such as improving international train connections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u301	Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I have also stressed other ways of promoting aviation more fairly. One of these options is to use bilateral conventions for excise duty on kerosene. I hear the Secretary of State say that doesn't help if we do that with one country. I understand that, but of course we can try to do it as soon as possible with our neighbouring countries. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that no excise duty is levied on kerosene in aviation;]] [[noting that people who fill up their cars pay more excise duty on kerosene than airlines pay for the purchase of kerosene for their flights;]] [[Whereas bilateral agreements allow countries to regulate the payment of excise duty on kerosene on flights between themselves;]] [[calls on the government to use bilateral agreements with countries, starting with the five countries between which we have the most flights, so that excise duty on kerosene can be levied as quickly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u302	One of the countries in which much is flown is Spain. Now Mr Laçin has been urging families for whom it is so difficult to go there because of this tax. And now he's pleading for a kerosene load. Doesn't the price go up? Isn't it gonna be hard for those families? I hope that Mr Laçin will be able to give me a little more words which will make me understand all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u303	Mr Laçin can certainly do that. In my speech, I made it very clear that flying should receive a fair price. I have already said that flying is going to be more expensive. The instrument chosen by the cabinet is the random introduction of a flight tax without causing anything to happen to me. I want excise duty on kerosene. Why? Because I said in my input that if I fill up on weekends because I want to go somewhere, I also pay excise duty. That's fair, that's fair. That the price would go up? Sure, but you'll do it in an honest way. That is what the SP has been advocating for years; it is not a new position. I do not opt for the road of a lucrative flight tax, but for the road of VAT on tickets, such as people in the O.V. pay, and excise duty on kerosene, as we all pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u304	Then I still don't understand the argument. There is a big story about that €7, which would be insurmountable. It will be quite difficult for a number of people, but at the same time Mr Laçin is arguing in a different way for a perhaps much higher tax, so that these families cannot fly. Then tell me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u305	Mr Slootweg seems a bit pecked, but I have more often in my contribution... Mr Slootweg is, of course, not an airman. If he had been, he'd have heard my input before. The SP always pleads for a fair price for flying and we are doing so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u306	I am genuinely trying to understand this. I don't know about aviation, but I do know a little bit about taxes. I have a very simple question. Does Mr Laçin also think that flying should be more expensive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u307	If you price flies fairly, it's gonna be more expensive, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u308	Then I don't understand anything about his input anymore, which was just about how shameful it was that flying became more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u309	What the SP has been advocating for years is that flying should receive a fair price. Mr Van Weyenberg does taxes, like Mrs Leijten, who has also argued for this more often. So I don't understand the surprise effect with D66 at all. This is something the SP has argued for before. I'm surprised there's any surprise. It is the means of elevating the purpose of this cabinet without any substantive argument. And then they say that this is what we need to reduce income tax. There's no way I'm gonna get into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u310	Mr Van Weyenberg, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u311	Mr Laçin actually says: aviation is a tax haven, because no tax is paid. Then there is a proposal to tax it and then you can have a whole debate on the measure. That is what I would like to do to all colleagues who want more or who want it to be different. But Mr Laçin had one story: it is a shame that a ticket for people who want to go on holiday once a year is becoming more expensive. And now he himself comes up with a kerosene load. Again, I do not find it strange that you are arguing for fair taxation of aviation and that you want to end the tax exemption, but if you hang up your whole story on the shame of more expensive airline tickets, then I honestly do not understand it anymore. The surprise is not in the fact that you want to tax. The surprise was mainly in your criticism of the cabinet proposal that I had understood if you didn't like the measure, but which you completely depended on the fact that flying became more expensive and then with a steel face it's entirely up to you to propose more expensive airline tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u312	Mr President, I will respond once again. I said this flight tax raises $200 million, but it doesn't pay anything. It's not gonna work! That's literally what I said. I have spoken shamefully of the green image that this cabinet hangs for itself and not of the more expensive or fairer pricing of aviation. Again, if... Mr Van Weyenberg is simply talking in his chair, but I cannot understand that. I have always said that we need to promote aviation more fairly, and there are several instruments for that. I have also said this in my contribution to this debate. The SP does not choose a flat fee, the SP chooses to import VAT on tickets and excise duty on kerosene. We've done that before, because it gives you a fairer price for flying. That is what we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u313	I'm trying to understand, too. We agree on the effects, but I think that has something to do with the measure. If you increase the flight tax, it will have more effect, including on the environmental tax. I'm just trying to make a few things very quickly in my head, for example about a plane ticket to one of the Spanish beaches. I think you will soon lose €20 or €25 extra for such a very cheap ticket if you charge VAT. That's just a flat tax, right? But that's what you're here for. So you are for €20 or €25 extra to fly to Spain for a holiday, because you find that fair, but €7 flight tax is not fair. I don't understand the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u314	The difference is in the instrument, I say again. For us, a flight tax of €7 is not a fair instrument. We choose the road of VAT and excise duty, because that equals the train tickets and the petrol that is fueled for cars. That makes it fair and pricing is a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u315	I still don't understand. VAT is a percentage and this is an amount. But if you charge the VAT rate, you just get a higher amount than €7. In the case of excise duty, I think it's even worse. There's a bunch of stuff about that, too. If you would like to make the excise duty on air traffic similar to car traffic, you will amount to approximately €100, but apparently that is the theorem of the SP. Then where's the difference? What is and what is not fair between VAT and excise duty on air traffic and just an air tax? I just honestly don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u316	I will not repeat the first part of my answer, which I have already given a few times. In the end, it's about what it delivers for climate and the environment. This tax doesn't do anything, I say again. If you make flying more expensive and people fly less and make other choices, then it also provides something for climate and environment. That is the balance that we are making, and that is why we do not opt for this flight tax, but for another route. And that is the path I propose in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u317	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u318	But now I understand. The flight tax is just too low! That's what the SP says. If it is higher, then it is fair in the story of the SP, because then it has climate and environmental impacts. But because it's too low, the SP doesn't think it's fair. I can't stop thinking it's a curious twist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u319	I can repeat what I just said again, but the instrument is as far as we are concerned... The goal, a fair price with consequences, is important. This proposal does not have either, and that is why we are not in favour of a flat flight tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u320	At the risk of a real repetition, I would like to give Mr Slootweg the floor again. But you, Mr. Slootweg, did start interrupting at this point. I'll allow you one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Flying to Valencia now costs €140. The proposal of this cabinet makes this €147. If I understand the SP, their proposal will include at least €30. So you're going to fly for €170. That's the difference! The SP says "at least €170" and the cabinet proposes €147. Well, then I know where you're better off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u322	At least not with this cabinet, because this cabinet also gives all kinds of gifts to big business. Mr Van Weyenberg calls for all kinds of things, but I still think I am going over my own answer. I hope he's okay with that, because this is cabinet policy. Mr Van Weyenberg can sit there laughing, but if he together with his coalition colleagues raises the excise duty on diesel, because people can't pay a Tesla,... If he increases VAT on public transport, if he throws up energy prices... And that plus this increase, that's his policy after all. It's not my policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u323	Mr President, on a point of order. I am asking a question, and that is what Mr Van Weyenberg is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u324	Exactly. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u325	The point is that someone with an annual income of €22,000 flies with this cabinet for €147 and that he just lost €170 at the SP. Then just admit it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u326	I'm not talking about amounts here. I have also mentioned the coherence of measures. It's always the same group. I understand that the coalition highlights one point here, but if you look at the coherence of all the measures, this cabinet will always take the same people and continue to give gifts to big business and to multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u327	Probably a lot, but I'm gonna try it anyway. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Laçin in which he addressed me particularly to those people. I think we mean the same group of people who work hard all year round, who are ready to take a holiday and take a plane to go on holiday one or two weeks a year. Mr Laçin pointed out that this cabinet affected precisely that group of people. Now several calculations have been made, but it is precisely the family that Mr Laçin means that his proposal is seriously deteriorating. With the proposal that we are discussing today, the cabinet is also making sure that income tax, especially for the middle class, is reduced. And that's exactly the class we're both fighting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u328	Sure. I continue to be surprised, and I have said the other way around in the interrupting debate, that the VVD says it stands up for the middle class here, for the people who do not have a big scholarship, after all the measures taken by the VVD to hit those people hard and keep spawning big business with tax deals, gifts and subsidies. So I find it very difficult to place. I understand that, as I have just said, the VVD only highlights this point here, but we are always looking at the coherence of all the measures that are being taken. That is what we do when it comes to tax measures. And then that middleman gets really bad at the VVD. I think we can cite a lot of examples to prove that. I just did, and I'm not going to repeat it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u329	Mrs. Lodders, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u330	Finally, and then I quit. My conclusion is that, if it is up to the SP Group, it will come up with proposals to introduce both taxation on kerosene and taxation on the ticket. Then Mr Laçin is satisfied. Really, the middle class is much better off with this proposal, in which we talk about €7 on a ticket and where we also reroute the proceeds of 200 million back to the middle class. That's the story. Mr Laçin can bring in all kinds of other things. Fine to discuss this with you or your colleague next year at the Tax Plan, but today we are talking about the facts. And the facts are really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u331	I have also mentioned the facts: a coherence of all the tax measures taken under the leadership of the VVD. You can see that the middleman gets hit hard and doesn't get any better at the VVD. That's one thing we can say for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u332	Mr Van Weyenberg, if I may now give you the floor, I will give you a reward for your screaming out of the Chamber and Mr Laçin's response. So I'm not gonna do that. If you have any further comments to make, you will do so in your second term. I ask Mr Laçin to finish his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u333	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion, which I did not really want to table, but which I would like to do anyway because the Secretary of State will return to the question I asked in his second term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet also intends to tax cargo flights with the introduction of the flight tax;]] [[Whereas freight flights at Schiphol Airport, with around 3% of flights, account for 20% to 25% of employment at the airport;]] [[Whereas the position of the air cargo sector is uncertain due to its limited claim to slots at Schiphol Airport;]] [[whereas the air cargo tax increases this uncertainty and the road leakage effects of cargo abroad, e.g. at Maastricht Aachen Airport, or passenger flights have not been adequately investigated;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate further the impact of the introduction of the air cargo tax on the air cargo sector and to inform the Court of Justice of this by Prinsjesdag 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Moorlag and Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u334	A question from Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u335	I think we have really talked about this in detail. I believe that the Secretary of State has made a very clear commitment on this matter. Of course, it is your right to put this in a motion, but what is the importance of a commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u336	I think it's a lame interruption. I deliberately went to the interrupting microphone to ask the Secretary of State if the effects on Schiphol Airport are sufficiently taken away. The Secretary of State has said that he will return to this in his second term. I also said that I would hold or withdraw the motion as soon as I received that reply. I'm not interested in filing a motion. That commitment is there and I was just trying to tighten it up a little bit. After the Secretary of State's reaction, I'll see what I can do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u337	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u338	Any last question, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u339	Yeah, you can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u340	It is about the fact that the Secretary of State says not to charge taxes on transfer passengers because other countries do not either. What strikes me then is that the same applies to cargo flights. A lot of other countries that have an air tax do not do that for freight flights. Why does the Secretary of State choose to look at what other countries do and not on freight flights, and then propose a tax for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u341	Thank you. Mr Moorlag has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u342	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for his reply. They are fair and correct answers. They are also realistic answers. He's got nothing to do with it. He's defending this bill. I did not get the impression that this was based on complete inner conviction, but there was the complete inner conviction that what is in the coalition agreement must be carried out. That's a roll-on operation. Mr. Chairman. I'm a realpolitiker, too. I told you everything's stuck here in coalition concrete, so I'm not making any motions. I have not tabled any amendments before either. I said that the PvdA will vote for this bill, because the alternative is that nothing will happen at all. I would like to give the Secretary of State the message that there is also a weighting in what we call 'across the street'. That weighting is often different. We are looking at efficiency and effectiveness and Mr Snels has already said the necessary about the Compatibility Act. The First Chamber has a separate role to play in this. And in the First Chamber we have another situation, because there are groups of the political forces that form the coalition here, which are not bound by the coalition agreement. My advice to the Secretary of State is to think in different scenarios. I'm asking him if he's willing to do that. I can imagine that a majority must be sought in the First Chamber to optimize a law that I have described as sub-optimal, in addition to an even less flattering qualification. I think there are opportunities for that, too. With substitution, you can do something. It's not about increasing the burden on the citizen. Whatever you do here a little more, you can do a little less in another place. Effectiveness may also be increased. I hope to give the Secretary of State some thought and wish us a successful treatment in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u343	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. We have had a whole debate and, in the end, I would like to return to what I started with, the words of Hans van Mierlo and the fact that, fortunately, we do not have to wait for the world government or for European consensus to take a step here today with the introduction of a flight tax. It is one that you will very much like to trade in for an international one; Mrs Lodders will be tabling another motion on this in a moment and I will sign with you. One international, which must of course be at least as effective as what we are doing here today, is why I am also under Mr Van Raan's motion. I understand that you can discuss the measure and I really see for the future that there is room to expand this. But I think it's a really nice first step. "Ready for take-off," I'd almost say. Although I understand what Mr Moorlag has just said, I have also heard the constructive basic tone of a number of colleagues, which gives me the feeling, I am optimistic about this, and optimism is a moral duty for me to see some landing rights for this proposal in both Chambers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u345	Thank you very much. Mr Slootweg has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to start by apologizing to Mr Laçin. He has indeed put down a clearly different point at the point of Schiphol. That was another addition. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for having really heard the concerns of the Chamber at Maastricht Airport. I therefore welcome his commitment to a border impact test. I really hope we can get things done for Princess' Day in the Chamber. If that does not work, I hope it will be possible for the Chamber to be informed on time. Of course, this is a snapshot. I think it is important that we also look at the long-term behavioural effects. Mrs Lodders will be tabling a motion on this in a moment, which I would like to have signed with. Then there is the importance of Europe. I think that the Secretary of State has made it very clear: if you really look at us, we would much rather have a European, an international arrangement in this area. That we still have the best way of doing this in Europe, we have tried to do so in the coalition agreement. I also see that the Secretary of State is following in the footsteps of his predecessor to see what we can do about it. I recognize that. In this line of 'how can we do more in Europe', I have also co-signed Mrs Lodder's second motion, which touches on that point. Mr. Chairman. There is one other point that I do not really understand. That is the question of how desirable it is for an air carrier to decide whether or not to refund the tax at the time when a journey is cancelled. That sounds to me like an airline that's going to make a profit on a tax that's not being paid to the tax authorities. And I believe that taxes are intended for the Treasury and not for the airlines. If you return a product or cancel a service, you will also receive your VAT. I do not see any reason why the government would not be able to determine that an aircraft tax should also be returned when the journey is cancelled. I would like to ask whether there is any possibility of establishing whether the government could enforce that. That is my final question, Mr President. I want to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u347	Thank you. Mrs Lodders has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u348	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. In my contribution, I have indicated why this law can count on our support. This is not only because we agreed in the government agreement, but also because we have included in our electoral programme that aviation should contribute to sustainability and greening. Of that, this is an effect. I thought it would be a good idea to address that here, too. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled an amendment with a horizontal clause. I have listened carefully to the Secretary of State, and I now summarize that amendment in a motion to avoid duplication of national and international taxation and to include in a possible implementing law a provision which simultaneously withdraws the current national tax on the basis of an equal return, otherwise it would be an uncovered motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas aviation must also contribute fairly to public finances and sustainability;]] [[whereas, for reasons of competition, European agreements on aviation taxation are preferable to a national tax only;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid duplication between a joint levy and a national levy;]] [[instructs the Government to include in a possible implementing law a provision for a European aviation tax which simultaneously withdraws the current national tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u349	That means I'm withdrawing that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u350	Well, then, it's now formally established.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u351	At least I assume you'll mention the right song.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u352	Yeah, that's definitely the right song!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u353	I am pleased to hear that the VVD had also included in its election programme the need to tax flights, but I just heard from the Secretary of State that the amendment by GroenLinks and the SGP together is not going to make it because he cannot get the parties to it. Was there then €7 in the VVD, or isn't the problem for the VVD that €15? If €15 is not the problem and there was €7 in the election programme, then I wonder which party is not for that increase to €15. Perhaps Mrs Lodders can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u354	Our electoral programme states that we believe that aviation should contribute to greening and sustainability. It says that we would like to do so internationally. Sometimes I am asked whether it is not strange that I stand here defending this law, but this is also simply an ambition of the VVD. It's in our election program. In the first period, I dealt more specifically with tariffs and the method of taxation, including with regard to freight flights. At that time, I indicated that we believe that a good balance has been found.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u355	But the key question is: so more than €7 was not negotiable for the VVD? That's actually my real question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u356	I have indicated, in the first term, that Mr Stoffer's proposal has been well balanced. I understand the ambition of a number of speakers. I am not just looking at Mr Stoffer, because I have also heard the ambition of higher rates from others. I would say: cherish the step that this cabinet is taking with the introduction of this national tax. Once again, we prefer international agreements because they better implement the two-track policy by contributing both to sustainability and to ensuring that competitiveness is not compromised. A balance has been found in that. I have just heard the Secretary of State mention a number of considerations as to why it would not be wise. But maybe you should look a little happier with this bill. I would say: cherish the thought that we are discussing this law today!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u357	Rounding off, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u358	I don't have an answer at all, because I'm actually just curious which party wouldn't be for that €15. That's just over €7. But that party might be, maybe not the VVD. I'd just like to know if it's yes or no. I cherish every step we take. I think this is a nice step, but I don't look happy at the end until a law makes it. But I'll be even happier if our amendment makes it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u359	I thought I saw Mr Stoffer look a little more enthusiastic. I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u360	I wonder if Mr Stoffer will support our price of €90. The VVD says through Mrs Lodders: we are for sustainability. I wonder what the VVD means by sustainability. One of the criteria for sustainability is CO emissions. I think we can agree that that is one of the criteria. I'll try to make it as clear as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u361	As long as it's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u362	Is sustainability for the VVD that aviation is going to emit less CO, in total, or is it that the total amount of CO may increase, but less than if, for example, you wouldn't innovate? Is this an absolute reduction in CO emissions from the VVD when it comes to sustainability or relative? That's kind of important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u363	That's a pretty technical question. In fact, I had expected him in the first term, so I had also written down what Mr Van Raan means by it. When he talks about sustainability, he talks about caring for climate, living environment and safety. Those are the concepts that are very important for us as VVD. That is also why we have talked about the Climate Agreement and the Climate Law in this House quite extensively. There's only one difference between the Party for Animals and the VVD, I think. Well, I dare say there are more. We do believe that it should be manageable and affordable. Those are important ingredients for us. We shall look into all the proposals. In this way, we have also looked at this bill. I think the balance has been found here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u364	Finalizing, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u365	Of course, that wasn't the question. That's actually not the answer. The question is about the sustainability component. I am very happy that the VVD also recognizes those sadness of sustainability, living environment and safety. In that pride we are talking about sustainability. Inside, CO is actually the measure, or CO equivalents. Is it then an absolute reduction that the VVD advocates, like the Party for Animals, or is that a relative reduction? Can CO emissions continue to rise in the eyes of the VVD or should it definitely fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u366	Of course, we have had this discussion in detail about the Climate Agreement. This is also discussed in the various climate debates. I see Mr Van Raan shaking no, but this is always the input I hear from his own mouth. So it is being held, this discussion. What we see, then, is that I am going to look at aviation in a very substantial way, which is an increase in CO emissions. What we want is to do something about it in an affordable and manageable way, not just looking specifically at aviation. All measures, more than 60 from the Climate Agreement alone, aim to ensure that we also reduce CO emissions, but in a way that is affordable and manageable and that we do not turn our backs on all kinds of sectors. There are opinions and at least the route we should do that, between the Party for Animals and the VVD. And I don't think we're getting any closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u367	That's really the last one for tonight, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u368	We're getting really close. We do not agree on this route and the amount, but we agree on that. I hear Mrs Lodder say that now, and that is fine that absolute CO emissions from aviation should go down. It's nice that we agree on that. We do not agree on the quantity, but the absolute quantity has to go down and that is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u369	Mr President, I do not think I used that term. What I have said is that all the measures we are taking are aimed at ensuring that we reduce CO emissions not only in aviation but everywhere. But in an affordable and manageable way. And we also think it is important that people still have a little bit of fun in life and that they can also have that vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u370	Mrs. Lodders continues her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u371	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think I will now come to a second motion which I would like to table, with a small introduction. The Secretary of State supports the concerns of the region, my group and other speakers tonight about the impact of the flight tax on freight and Maastricht Aachen Airport. I welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will come forward with an investigation and with a border impact test, as Mr Slootweg also asked. I hope we can meet them in good time. I have a motion because, if we proceed with the introduction of the flight tax for the questions, it is important that this is monitored. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a flight tax is being introduced;]] [[whereas several regional airports, such as Maastricht Aachen Airport (MAA), suffer from international competition;]] [[Whereas the government has less information on the impact of the flight tax on regional airports;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the effects of the flight tax on regional airports such as Maastricht Aachen Airport (MAA) and to take measures if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders, Mr Slootweg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u372	Mr President, I see that I have run out of time, so I would like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u373	I'll see you, too. Then we go to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although this was a proposal that was poured into concrete and followed from the coalition agreement, it was a nice debate and also an important debate. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers. It is also a debate that is not yet over. That's what the Secretary of State himself said. The European debate continues. What is possible at European level? The debate continues with the leading group of countries. If it does not work in the European Union, what can be done with the leading group of countries? As far as I am concerned, and there is still some difference of opinion, I think, the Dutch debate continues. I am convinced that in the Netherlands too, we can encourage this flight tax, the pricing of external costs of flying, even smarter and perhaps in rates a little higher. In that context, I still get the promised reply from the Secretary of State on the implementation of the business class. That is one of the subjects that I think will come back to in the next coalition agreement. That answer may also be written from me, if it is a little more complicated, but I would like to know a little more about it. I already had half a commitment from the Secretary of State on the same subject in the first term. I am not asking for a whole exploration, but give an idea of the flight taxes in all kinds of forms of our neighbouring countries. We've got about that now, but what about train traffic? I believe that VAT on rail traffic in the Netherlands is higher than in our neighbouring countries, but what about taxes on rail travel in our neighbouring countries? That is an opportunity to turn the buttons and make the instrument more effective in the next step, perhaps in the next cabinet, which I think we all want. In that context, I also have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas air traffic is currently exempt from VAT and excise duties;]] [[Whereas it covers only a small proportion of external costs by means of taxes and levies and refers to tax haven Schiphol;]] [[Whereas this is at the expense of competition with other forms of mobility which are in charge, such as international rail traffic;]] [[Whereas this is at the expense of our country's economic development and has negative environmental, climate and nuisance costs;]] [[whereas the current proposal only has a limited impact on the pricing of external costs;]] [[asks the cabinet to explore further steps to put an end to tax haven Schiphol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u375	The motion doesn't require more than exploring, although I'd like to go further. May I give the Secretary of State the following consideration? About seven years ago, a motion was tabled in this Chamber about the Netherlands tax haven. There was a lot of commotion about this, but it helped the minister of state, Mr Snel, to take effective measures to tackle tax avoidance in the Netherlands. Sometimes you also have to make a bit of a provocative motion and framing matters in politics to make that possible. "Tax paradise Schiphol" - the Secretary of State did not give an answer to this question in the first place - is in line with this Secretary of State's view that we are now subsidising air traffic and that we should not want it at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u376	I would like to give Mr Snels his provocative motion. I just honestly don't understand why it says "Schiphol" and not "air transport." Or does he think it only applies to Schiphol Airport and not to other aviation in the Netherlands? Because then I'm really curious about the argumentation. I'm just trying to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u377	In general, Mr Van Weyenberg is right, but I think it is mainly about Schiphol. For think not only of VAT and excise duties, but also of landing rights, which are also quite low in relation to all kinds of other countries in our environment. Then you can still say that Schiphol is subsidised by all other tax-paying Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u378	Mr Kops is the next speaker. He doesn't need a second term. Then I look at Mr Stoffer. Yeah, he still does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u379	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the many questions. I like to see the Secretary of State want to admit certain thoughts in his head. Of course, we haven't known each other that long, so it's just a question of whether thoughts linger for a long time. I've seen them fugitive. So I thought, let me record that thought in a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a flight tax will be levied from 2021;]] [[noting that the tax on airline tickets in Germany will soon increase;]] [[noting that in Germany VAT on train tickets has recently been reduced, thus encouraging travel by train;]] [[Whereas this creates a situation in Germany which discourages air travel and encourages travel by train;]] [[Whereas this will encourage the sustainability of transport;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how to encourage the use of international train traffic, for example by reducing VAT on train tickets, and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the Tax Plan 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Snels and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35205-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u380	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u381	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bruins, on the side of the Chamber. No, he doesn't need that either. Then we have reached the end of the second term of office. The Secretary of State wants a few minutes. Then I'll suspend until 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u382	We need the second term from the government. The Secretary of State also gives his opinion on 11 motions submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u383	Thank you, Mr President. I forgot in my novice mentality to thank the MPs in my first term for their input. I'm happy to do that now, because it was a nice debate. I say to Mr Slootweg that I am too stupid to understand the point of that cancellation at once. So I'm gonna send you a note on this, if you don't mind. Then Mr Laçin. I think we should do that investigation. You ask what this means for the freight sector at Schiphol. That was your question, wasn't it? Mr Laçin asked me: what does this mean for the freight sector at Schiphol? Then I gave the answer that I intuitively suspected it was, and it turns out that it was: freight traffic in the Netherlands is divided between Schiphol and Maastricht Aachen Airport. I know that I have undertaken a study to look closely at Maastricht Aachen. This means, of course, that I am also implicitly looking at the freight sector at Schiphol Airport. I think that is what I am doing to meet Mr Laçin's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u384	Yes, and with the promise that we will get that information before Princess Day, I withdraw my motion on this point. That was my third motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u385	Let's see. That's the motion in part No. 22.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u386	Then there is Mr Kops of the PVV's question about the tax on climate change. Aviation is responsible for around 2.5% of global CO emissions. Now, of course, what is the contribution of this particular airline ticket tax? That is totally dependent, but we have had this discussion before; I cannot give numbers of elasticity, i.e. what happens to the price. If Mr Kops is interested, I would refer him to the CE Delft report, in which this is dealt with very extensively. Mr Snels once again referred to the feasibility of tariff differentiation between business class and economy class. Maybe I can promise the following on that point. Then I will take another question from Mr Snels. He asked: would the Secretary of State still like to open his head to the question of the tax on air travel in other countries, including with a view to the future? That's how I understand it. If I could get that together, maybe I could look at the flight tax in other countries. They sometimes have that distinction between business class and economy class. Then I'll take that feasibility with me. That would be my commitment to Mr Snels. I just took care of the cargo flights. That brings me to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u387	There is still a question about this. I also see Mr Van Raan standing, but it was a question from Mr Snels, so I am the first to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u388	Perhaps it can be done in the same letter, because the other question was what about taxes on rail traffic in the surrounding countries. That is a slide that we would ideally like to make, with the VAT on the trains. That does not have to be an extensive exploration, but I would ask the Secretary of State to give an idea of what that is like in the surrounding countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u389	Mr Stoffer has tabled a motion on VAT on train tickets. I was gonna give it to you anyway, room, but now I've already told you. Well, I guess that'll come up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u390	The motion in part No. 26 has already ruled Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u391	I actually have three points; sorry to say so. I still had two questions. One was about that loophole in the law on cargo planes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u392	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u393	We also had a question about exploring the ICAO route, and last but not least the amendment on item No. 13 of the Party for Animals. This also makes a distinction between economy and business class, but also makes a third distinction, namely with regard to private jets. Perhaps it would be a small effort for the Secretary of State to take it with him if he writes all that letter about economy and business class.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u394	I said in my first term that private jets are subject to airline tax. There is only a minimum start weight because of its feasibility. I believe that this is not an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u395	The Secretary of State said that the starting weight is so low that all private jets are covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u396	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u397	It's not for nothing that a separate distinction has been made in England. That goes from 20 tons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u398	I'd like to take another look at it. The risk of three questions at once is that I have now forgotten the first two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u399	I can imagine. That was about the loopholes in the law on the cargo plane. And we are constantly saying that Europe is the problem and that we want to regulate it at European level, but this is because, above that, ICAO regulates matters at UN level. So there is also a route to be directly active in the UN context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u400	On the subject of the second question, I would like to say to Mr Van Raan that I would like to look at the great overarching thing. We took a quick look at the installation of seats in cargo planes. You can't just do that, because there are just special permits. You need a different license for a cargo plane. So it doesn't seem easy to light things up this way. I'm just gonna say it at home. Can I go to the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u401	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u402	My opinion on the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Van Raan is: Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 17 is about placing those chairs. That is why I did not give you an answer: you have tabled a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u403	That is, of course, different, because I also said that I would table the motion and then I will wait for the answer. We've got the answer now. The answer is, in fact, that can't just happen, because then you have to bottle things up a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u404	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u405	But that answer is actually too simple, because it is very common that cargo planes also have passenger seats. That can just be arranged by licence. So it is quite possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u406	I see my officials here really shaking their heads to indicate that they are not. I'm afraid we're not getting out of this technical issue tonight. Hold on; that's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u407	The verdict is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u408	The verdict is: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u409	From the motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u410	That's right. The motion in part No. 18 deals with limit values. I would advise against this motion. She is no longer in my domain. This is really starting to go way beyond the knowledge and skill of the Secretary of State for Finance. Developing limit values for all these things is really... I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u411	May I interrupt you for a moment? Mr Van Raan wishes to see the motion on item No. 17, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u412	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u413	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (35205, No. 17). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u414	The motion in part No. 18 has been dissuaded. We'll continue with the motion in part no. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u415	The motion in part No. 19 I advise, but that will be clear, because that is a different design. Mr Van Raan is being served with what I have just promised to Mr Snels. And I'll come back later on to the famous motion in part No. 26. Then we have the motion in part no. 20 on investing the flight tax in sustainable alternatives. This is a subject that I have addressed very widely in the debate. I advise against this motion. Also the motion in part No. Mr Laçin (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I will say to him that we are going through this EU pathway and that we are also going to look at leading groups in this area. But that does not mean that I can give this motion judgment Chamber, because this motion is more restrictive. The government's gonna do something else. So I'm not suggesting this motion. The motion in part No. 22 deals with further research into the effects of the air cargo tax. That's the motion you just mentioned. The motion in part No. 23 belongs to Mrs. Lodders. I'm a little lost right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u416	For those who had not yet received this: the motion in part No. 22 has been revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u417	The motion in part No. 23 belongs to Mrs Lodders and deals with the substitution of national taxes and European taxes. Judgment Room. That is what I said in the debate. We have an evaluation after two years, at least if Mrs Lodder's amendment is adopted. Then we can monitor up to that evaluation how regional airports are doing, especially Maastricht Aachen Airport, as she states in the motion. If I make the motion to part No. 24 so may understand, then the judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u418	Yeah, I think so. At least the first two years will then be monitored. But it would be nice if the Secretary of State would do a report in the interim, after the first half of the year and after the second half, so that we can see what is happening at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u419	Could I read it in such a way that we do an interim report after one year? And if the monitoring really gets anything that leads to fire effects, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u420	For now, I agree. But I'm also depending on the research we're still getting on Maastricht Airport. Hopefully that will be completed before Prince's Day. If something really does come out of that, then I might as well come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u421	The motion in part No. 25 by Mr Snels I must advise against. I did, however, knot his remark about paradises in my ears. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u422	Let's get back to the argument. I'm asking for a reconnaissance. Actually, the Secretary of State has said he's going to explore a lot. Is this only about the qualification "tax haven Schiphol"? I'd be sorry to hear that. I'm curious to see the Secretary of State's qualification for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u423	In my view, I have just promised Mr Snels that I will deliver on a number of points. But I think this motion is drawn up in such a way that it should stimulate me a little bit. That has led to a commitment, but that does not mean that I do not reject the motion. As regards the motion in part No. 26 I had already lifted a little tip from the veil. I would like to give a ruling to the Chamber on this motion by Mr Stoffer on VAT on train tickets; that is just how I read it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u424	Thank you as well as your staff and the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u425	We are going to vote on the amendments tabled on Tuesday 17 March. That's six more. We are also voting on the motions tabled. That's nine, because one of them was arrested and one was withdrawn. Mr Slootweg still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u426	I may have missed it, but I could do the amendment to part No. 15 not so quickly found in my...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-11-tweedekamer-10.u427	The amendment in part No. 15 is a technical adjustment to the amendment to item No. 14. Nothing has changed in the explanatory statement, so there is no need for a new assessment. The verdict was dissuaded. Very good. I'm closing the meeting. Thank you very much.
