ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	The matter now is the treatment of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, Room 35526. I would like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Of course, I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery. Yesterday we had the first term on the side of the Chamber and today it is the government's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to all Members for their detailed, thorough and thorough input yesterday at the first-term examination by the Chamber. Thank you also for the proposals to improve the legislative proposal before us, because there are quite a few of them. We shall consider this in detail. In the reaction of the cabinet, we use the following division of tasks. Mr Ollongren will deal in particular with the fundamental aspects of law and administrative relations, the relationship with the municipalities. Mr Grapperhaus will focus on enforcement, on relations with the security regions, on relations with churches and on religious aspects. I shall deal in particular with parliamentary involvement, with the content of the law, with the public bodies Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba, and also with a few other questions. But allow me first, Mr President, to make a number of preliminary remarks. We're discussing this bill against the backdrop of contagion, rising hospitalizations, rising concerns as to whether we're going to break that second wave in time. That nasty virus's been in our hands for six months now. Many of your members recalled that yesterday. And it will hold us in the grip of the next six months, in the coming year, who knows. And no matter how encouraging the ever-growing treatments are, of course, that such a risk of getting sick, very sick even with a possible fatal outcome, can affect all of us. And as encouraging as it is to see progress on vaccines, vaccination continues to be surrounded by many uncertainties for the time being. Even if we get the first vaccines delivered, let's hope in the first months of next year, then it will still be a long time before the vaccination has actually taken place and we as a society are truly protected. This means that we will be faced with measures that hinder us in our freedoms for a while to come. Measures that affect what makes life so worthwhile, to contact, to proximity, to being together. So we are also discussing this bill in the context of the concerns about those measures themselves. Are they not too far-reaching, are our rights not too much restricted? In this sense, it is also understandable that the bill as it stands has given rise to a lot of discussion: inside and outside this Chamber, opinion articles in the newspaper, many messages on social media, even demonstrations. There are a lot of concerns about the new law and that is why it is important, and many of your Members stressed it yesterday, to be very precise in what this law is about and what this law is not about, what the reason for this bill is. It is a good thing that this bill is being dealt with in a very thorough way. The law now before us has already improved considerably compared to the very first version that has gone into consultation. Perhaps it is good to say something about that right away, because a number of questions have been asked. Mr Van der Staaij said that he was annoyed by the way in which that was done, because the way in which that was done has made the debate so high. I believe that Mr Hijink has pointed this out and others have also pointed this out. I can see that, too. Looking back, you could say: should we have done this differently? The fact that we are consulting a law before we complete it and send it to the Council of State, and that a law is being revised after it comes back from the Council of State before it goes to the Chamber, is simply the appropriate way in which we come to legislation. What we should have done better in this case is to take more time for that consultation phase. We should have done this by means of a regular internet consultation. If we had, everyone could have just read along. It is true what Mr Van der Staaij and I also think Mr Veldman said: the debate on the legislative proposal has started, at least the social debate, along the lines of reactions from others, without the original legislative proposal being known. That's been clumsy. I say this not so much as an excuse, but perhaps more as an explanation of the way in which it happened in that period. We have had a discussion in the Chamber for some time about the legal basis of the measures we take. In itself, it is understandable that the Cabinet should take measures as we do, namely under the Wpg, in particular Article 7, the designation power, and under the Security Regions Act, through emergency regulations. This is all understandable in itself within a short phase, if the crisis is short. But when the Wpg was made, we and our predecessors could not foresee that we would end up at this stage. Measures that limit our rights for a longer period do deserve a real legal basis. That was a feeling in a motion from me, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Jetten. Information was then requested from the Council of State. It actually came to the same conclusion: understandable how the cabinet operated in the past period, but in the future there should actually be a different foundation underneath. That's how we operated. At that time, we felt that we should do so quickly. I think we should have said: no, if we do that, we should also take the time for the social debate that goes with it. I do not think we have given it enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	You will have the floor in a moment, Mr Markuszower, and then Mr Hijink. But you were in the middle of an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes, I would have just liked to underline the why of the law and also what the law actually regulates. But it is up to you to say: do this before we start interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	Well, then I'm going to see Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	I just have a question about the Minister's introduction, which contains a bit of reflection. Perhaps the Minister could also take other aspects into account in this reflection. The run-up to the law, as the Minister has actually said, has led to a tremendous amount of social unrest. Look, the PVV is against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yeah, I heard that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	The minister initially came up with a disproportionate wild law, which in fact made the minister a sort of emperor. The result is that Mrs Buitenweg and other MPs have actually reduced the Minister to a soldier's second class again. Can the Minister reflect on the past period, on his own role in it and also on the outcome and qualifications that I have just given to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	I think I would like to say very clearly, especially when I hear these qualifications, that it is good, especially when social concerns are great, to be very precise about why the law and also what exactly that law regulates. I have, of course, also read all kinds of qualifications in the newspaper, even then, in discussion papers and discussions on social media, which I believe are genuinely not doing justice to the intention of coming up with this bill, but also not to its content. We can now take decisions under the Public Health Act. This goes by appointment to the President of the security region, which states how he has to deal with the crisis. An emergency regulation is then made on the basis of that designation. In short, in a formal sense, this does not involve a parliament, nor does it involve a city council. That is the objectionable thing that had to be overcome. This is how the motion of Van der Staaij and Jetten came about. That was also what was in the Council of State's briefing. On the basis of this information, we have made that law. You ask why the powers were more profound in that concept of then. Then the first thing I would like to say is that the legislative proposal at that time was not concerned with strengthening the powers of the cabinet, but with strengthening the powers of the parliament. That bill did make an inventory of what elements you could all need powers from. Of course, as a model, as a basis, the emergency regulation of that moment has been taken. That made sense, too. We were just coming out of a very violent phase of the crisis. But once that law became public, when there was also a social discussion about it, we were now in a phase in which the crisis was over. I heard Mr Van der Staaij mention a number of motions yesterday. I also have memories of debates in which the Chamber also made extremely rugged proposals to deal with the crisis. I understand, because we were all extremely concerned, panicked, you might say, about what this virus did to our country. We were willing to take very far-reaching measures to get that virus back under control. That does not alter the fact that the law at the moment, and also the law at the time, is not a law to give the cabinet more power or to give the minister of VWS more power, but rather to normalize parliamentary control. That's what the law was about. This is also the subject of the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	The long answer betrays that the Minister has had to take a lot of time recently and have had to pay a lot of attention to work on this law. Today I read in the newspaper that the GGD West-Brabant has virtually shut down the source and contact research. Is the Minister not of the opinion that he should not have given all his time and attention to crowning himself as a coronakeizer, which was not really successful because the parliament has whistled back the minister, but that he should have spent the last few months to make sure that that source and contact research, like today's GGD West Brabant, is not possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	I'm just gonna leave out the framing and everything. I think I have just explained what the law is about. I think it's our all responsibility to be precise about that. Just because we see that there is unrest in society, it is up to all of us, we all have that responsibility to be precise about the why of that law, about the intention behind the law, but also about what is in that law. We're really gonna have to do that with each other. For the source and contact research, of course, I am busy with the GGD's every day to make sure that the team that can do that source and contact research is bigger every day than it was yesterday and that more source and contact research can be done every week than yesterday. But the infections are at such an incredible pace that there is no source and contact research to deal with them. So we have to make sure that we get that virus underneath, that we close the tap and do not leave the crane open and ask the GGD to mop for us. That's not how it works in keeping this virus underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	As far as I am concerned, as far as the SP is concerned, it is not good enough for the Minister now to point out the situation that arose before the summer, as if only in the procedure something went wrong, that it was unfortunate that this draft law ended up on the streets and that there was a storm of criticism. Of course, that was not at the heart of what went wrong there. The essence of what went wrong was the content of that draft law itself. The role which the Minister himself attributed to it was totally undemocratic. Parliament was put out of play by this law for a long time. You need Mrs Buitenweg and others now to kick your ass. That's what happened. I would like to hear the Minister say that there was more to it than a procedural mistake before the summer. The essence of that law was that the way things are now, ruling through emergency regulations and decrees of the minister, would actually be laid down in the law for a longer period of time. That was the real criticism of the law, not just that procedurally things should have been better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	That is, in fact, wrong. From day 1 onwards, the purpose of that law has not been to give more power to the cabinet or to give more powers to the cabinet or more possibilities to govern per decree. "Decree" is a strange word to me anyway. I stand here at least once every two weeks debating with the Chamber. In any case, there is no rule by decree. That's not what the whole law was about. Never. That law has always been about normalizing parliamentary relations. The question is then which technique you choose. What form do you choose? I come to that when I talk about Parliament's involvement. Indeed, Mrs Buitenweg has tabled an amendment which actually replaces two articles contained in the legislative proposal. But the proposal of law, as received by your Chamber, has been a pending procedure for a ministerial settlement. That's not "by decree." That is to leave it to the Chamber to decide which instrument is to be used in the parliamentary instrument box to deal with the pending procedure. This can be done in all kinds of ways, for example by motion. Mrs Buitenweg's proposal goes even further. I'll get right on that. I am also enthusiastic about this. I think that can be made workable, but with a number of comments. I'll make it that way. But it is really wrong to assume that that law was ever made from another intention and from another content. That's just really wrong. Look at the Van der Staaij motion. Look at the information from the Council of State. Look at the consultation version of the law. Look at the law that's been filed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	This is just not right. The Minister is talking about restoring parliamentary relations, but the state-law parliamentary relations are crystal clear. The primate is always in parliament. The Minister can come up with proposals, but it is still the Parliament that has the last word here. Parliament cannot be sidelined by an emergency law. And that, of course, is exactly what happened in the draft law. The Minister could come up with proposals without any involvement of parliament, and in cases of emergency it could be even faster. And that is wrong on all sides! That is why the whole of society has fallen over this minister. I'm not okay with that. For us, it is really important for the Minister to look back at the period of that draft law and say very clearly here that it was simply not good and that he regrets it. It may be a good thing, thanks to the Chamber, that things are now being repaired a bit, but in principle it was really, really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	It is good to do justice to how and why this bill was drafted. The legislative proposal has been put in place because we found together that the Public Health Act, which now provides us the basis for taking the measures we are taking, is not really tailored to the situation we are now facing with a crisis that is taking place for a long time. That's one. Two: that law is a democratically legitimized law. It was our predecessors who jointly established that law, as legislator and co-legislator, and thus, in that Public Health Act, granted these powers to the minister of VWS. That's two. Three: the original bill was not about leaving Parliament out of it or wanting to take action independently of Parliament, as Mr Hijink suggests. The legislative proposal as you have received it and the legislative proposal as we are discussing it today provided and provided for a suspension procedure under ministerial regulation so that the entire parliamentary instrument box can be opened up to deal with it. It can be adjusted by means of a motion. It can be adjusted by means of ordinary commitments. The debate can be adjusted. And you will. As a Chamber, you are meeting very intensively on the Corona approach. I think that's healthy and good and that's how it's supposed to be. We have a cabinet to answer for, and so do we. But pretending the original bill was some kind of rule by decree is just factually incorrect. In this respect, too, there was simply a procedure in the legislative proposal, as you have received it, and that still applies. The legislative proposal as it went to the Council of State also contained a follow-up procedure. It was actually considered fine by the Council of State. But we have said that if we want to strengthen parliamentary involvement even more, we must do so by means of a back-up procedure. In short, there has always been an intention not to give the cabinet more power and powers. We don't need them. The intention was to normalize relations with parliament and normalize the controlling relations. That's what this law is about. Mrs Buitenweg has indeed made an even more far-reaching proposal which we will be discussing in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	It is not normal for a draft law to come into a front-end procedure, in which we only get something to say when we are going to squeal as a Chamber, and in such a procedure the rights of Parliament are restricted. Parliament's rights are crystal clear. We always have the last word here. Especially in this highly sensitive case, in which people's fundamental rights are restricted, the Minister must, of course, give the Chamber the first floor and do not want to overrule it himself. I think that went wrong in the core. I really regret that the Minister cannot look back on that critically. I would like to give it to him: if he is looking today for support for this cabinet, he really should take a critical look at what happened before the summer. It's still early, so the minister's gonna have to wait a while. Maybe he still needs to get going. I hope so, if he wants support for this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	Here again, I really point out, also to Mr Hijink, that we need to be very precise. The proposal of law, as it stands, and also in earlier versions, as it did not before the Chamber, but through consultation, did not in any way restrict the powers of Parliament. It is the other way around: in the comparison you have to make with the basis, the default of the current Public Health Act, it limits the powers of the Cabinet. It limits the number of subjects on which you can take action as a cabinet. So it sets out the powers of the cabinet in that regard. It does not frame the powers of the Chamber, but the powers of the Cabinet. And where involvement, parliamentary control, was less formal, namely simply in parliamentary debates using the regular instruments of the Chamber, it would become a formal involvement, through a veil. At the moment we are not obliged to place a designation, a draft emergency regulation, before the Chamber. Moreover, its content is always the result of a parliamentary debate, but that is a non-formal commitment. What this law would actually regulate is a formal involvement of parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	Then I have Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Haga and Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	The Minister must not only seek support in this Chamber, but also within society. Because that is where, and I think that the Minister is really entitled to charge himself for that, is a form of polarisation. It consists, on the one hand, of fear of the virus and, on the other hand, of the fact that people are particularly restricted in their fundamental rights. I am very surprised that this minister is actually defending his law, and it does not immediately embrace the fact that a large part of the Chamber meets him in order to fix his law and thus actually save his good name and his law. He is still standing here defending his law, as well as the earlier versions of the law. Because, he says, "the intention was actually good." But the effect was very bad. I would like to ask the Minister: does he recognise that an entire army of lawyers, but also the Council of State, have said: Minister, you have to go back to the drawing board, because this law is fucked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	This is what I meant just now when I said that it is important to be very precise, especially if we want to share that responsibility to combat polarisation in society. On the way you just quoted the Council of State, I would say read it, because that is not what the Council of State said. In fact, the Council of State has gone much further along with the original proposal of nahang instead of veil, to name but one element. The law, as it has been built, is actually based entirely on the information provided by the Council of State, as requested by the Jetten/Van der Staaij motion. So it's really factually incorrect, how you just recapitulated the Council of State's commitment. And when it comes to combating polarisation, I think it is our all responsibility to be as factual as possible about what is ahead and also to do justice to the intention with which a law has been created. It has never been intended in any way to give the cabinet more power, a powergrab from the cabinet. No, we don't need more powers. I have always said that we have plenty of powers to get the virus underneath; that is not what this is about. This law sets out precisely the powers of the cabinet, one might say, and normalizes relations with parliament. This is also done in a formal sense, by giving formal participation to the Court in the establishment of measures. I therefore believe that this is in line with the Council of State's information, and it is in line with the feeling in the Chamber, as it was in the spring. What I do think we should have done better is this. That is how I started, with the reflection this spring: to what extent has communication about this law contributed to this? This has to do with the fact that we really should have completed this consultation in a different way. We should have filled it out with more time, more transparency and more explanation, even then. Normally, you never do that as a cabinet in a consultation phase, because you say: the law first goes to parliament and then the cabinet communicates about it. But in this case, we should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u23	I specifically referred to the first opinion of the Council of State, so you were sent back to the drawing board. But then I have another question. No, first of all, I want the Minister to acknowledge that the first version of this law was simply far too premature and too broad. And she was far too inferior in terms of our democratic rule of law as we know it in terms of values, legality, legal certainty, open standards and framework. I want him to at least acknowledge that. Then we can talk about the other changes afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u24	We have, of course, deliberately taken out an element. We were able to maintain the element from behind the front door, because we thought: "That leads to so much social unrest and you are probably going to use it very little. How are you supposed to shape that in terms of enforcement? So let's get rid of that. The unrest is high, the added value is low and it is far-reaching in the legal sense, so let's delete it." Of course, the law as it has been sent to the Chamber is much better than the consultation version, but that actually applies to any legislative proposal that we send to the Chamber. That's better than the consultation version. Then we will listen as closely as possible to what the Council of State then advises us. For that, the legislative process is exactly the way it is. By the time the law is sent to the Chamber, it's also a law you really need to be able to stand for. In this case, it has not gone well that we have not given ourselves enough time for the consultation of that law and good communication about it with a good explanation as to why the law and what was in that law and what was not. There were indeed a number of elements in that consultation version which, on second thought, you should say: we simply should not do that. That is why they are not included in the bill as your Chamber has received it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u26	But the version of the bill that we received as a Chamber on 13 July was still not good. Legal scholars said about this: "There hasn't really been much change in the sole rule of this cabinet. That is really wrong." Subsequently, several parties of the coalition and of the opposition have written amendments in cooperation. Let's not play political games here. Of course, the Ministry was also involved in this. I can very well imagine that the Minister has already approved the spirit of these amendments in the back rooms. If the Minister is looking for support, on the one hand in parliament and on the other in society, then I do not quite understand why he did not say: "It is going wrong with polarization and we need to find support, so let me now rewrite that law, bearing in mind those amendments that have been formed by the coalition and the opposition and let me explain that to society...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u27	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u28	... and let me look up the dialogue so that we could have talked today about the legislative text, including the amendments. Then we do not have to vote on it next week and then some party will not say..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, this is a very long introduction. You often don't get the answer you want, but that's because you use too many words, which allows directors to deal with it in a different way. So I would say: the shorter, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u30	That's a good advice, Mr. Chairman. I'll take it to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u31	The question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u32	My question is: why did the Minister not choose to implement these amendments in the text sent to the Chamber on 13 July, precisely in order to gain the support of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u33	Frankly, I don't quite understand what Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen means. We have a legislative process. We usually go through that like this. First you do a consultation and then you make a draft law. You'll send it to the Council of State. Then it comes back from the Council of State, and then you're going to see what the Council of State's opinion actually makes very good sense and we have to take on board anyway. That's what happened here. Then a law goes to the Chamber. Then there will be proposals to improve the law. That's what you do in a chamber debate. Then we are simply going to discuss all these amendments in full light; we are going to do so. Then you have an improved version of the bill. Then it goes to the First Chamber. There's the debate again. Then the law will be passed. That's how a bill is supposed to come about, even now. I think that's actually quite a nice process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u34	That's a wonderful process. We have set this up with each other and our democratic predecessors, but that is not at the heart of it. The essence is not that people find the technocratic side of making a law interesting or that they were standing on their backs. I said yesterday in my speech: is this minister in contact with society? That means that before we think about the processes and the steps we take to come to a law and to align and make a law, we ask ourselves what this does to society. The minister himself just said, "We were all a little freaked out." Then it is wise that you keep your head cool, but that you test very well what you present to that society. Has the Minister considered what this means for society and how people could react to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u35	In fact, I think I have just made some comments about this in a more reflective sense towards Mr Veldman, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Hijink. Yesterday you yourself said that I do share that and that I think that, when we consulted that law and at the same time wanted to make a targeted consultation of it in a defined, short time, we did not see enough that we should have given ourselves more time to carry out that consultation. I also said that we should have explained more, even at that consultation stage. The cabinet is usually very reluctant to do so, because that is actually not so neat towards the parliament. After all, the draft proposal is already on the Internet or is already at field parties, for example. It is actually crazy to communicate very much about this as a public cabinet, because, of course, we have to relate ourselves as a cabinet to the Chamber. In this parliamentary debate, the debate should take place on legislative proposals. That restraint may have been neat in retrospect, but it was also not sensible, because it made the floor very big for all those who wanted to make this law a kind of powergrab and who wanted to make this law "only rule" and put all those frames on it that some of your members still repeat today. That is why I think we would have given ourselves a big gift if we had taken more time and communicated more intensively. That is the reflection I have on this process this spring. By the way, that doesn't change the why of the law and the content of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u36	I'm gonna take another shot at getting the minister to move something over. It's not just about framing. It is not just a question of the way in which the cabinet has handled things that has given people too much room to frame things. It is also a question, for example, of the Minister's proposals not defending citizens' privacy enough. That's what he was called back for. It's about the fact that it's a hugely far-reaching measure if you step behind the front door. It's about far-reaching interventions if you even want to lock people up because they don't want to keep a distance. Can the Minister, for a moment not on his Hugo de Jongs, just look into the camera and say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u37	The Young One.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u38	Hugo de Jonge. So say: "I came up with something with my colleagues. That was under difficult circumstances. That was way out of line. This has caused people in society to rise massively and have said: we cannot accept this." Then I think he should conclude and say: 'The Chamber has corrected that. In the end, we now have something that I am happy with and with which we can work, and that is good."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u39	And the question is, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u40	Whether he can say that in the camera, because that takes away a lot of misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u41	Oh! Everything will be broadcast live. What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u42	My question is whether the Minister recognizes that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u43	No. And the way I see it, I've just explained it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u44	I just heard all kinds of MPs asking for reflection, but then the Minister would not go beyond 'we should have been more transparent' and 'we should have taken more time'. Now there is a law before it, not a very large but very important law, on which almost 40 amendments have been released, if I have counted it correctly. In that case, you must be able to conclude that there is a law which is at least not wanted by the Chamber in this capacity. We are now going to talk for ten hours about all these amendments. Would it not be more royal to say: I am withdrawing it now, I am going to process all these amendments and I will come back in a few months with a law that is in line with all the amendments that have been tabled here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u45	Then, I think, what I heard Mr Van der Staaij say yesterday. We can do that. There's still a long way to go. We can work on an even better bill for a long time. We could just do that. But that means that you will be taking measures for a very long time under the current Public Health Act. I believe that the Jetten/Van der Staaij motion said in April: should we not look at a more solid legal basis? In May, the Council of State was informed. It has pointed out to us that it is indeed wiser, now that the crisis is taking so long, to create a better legal basis. We would have done that before the summer, but we should have taken more time to work, indeed, on the basis of a better legislative proposal. That's why we're here now. It is sensible, especially with the improvement proposals on the table. I will give it such a nuanced qualification, but briefly they make the law, I think, better and more appropriate to what the Chamber wants. I think that's fine, too. This is also the way a legislative process should be done: the cabinet does not send a proposal of law to the Chamber, but a proposal of law to the Chamber, and then it is up to the Chamber as co-legislator to amend it. That happened to your heart's content. That is a fair observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u46	The Minister himself just indicated that he needed more time. It is virtually impossible for us at the moment to determine which amendments do and which do not come through. We're gonna talk about that for another ten hours. And we've been working on those emergency regulations for six or seven months. So I don't think it's a problem to do that for a month or two longer. A further advantage is that we might then have a better understanding of whether there is still an emergency situation. However, I would strongly advise you to simply go back to the drawing board and process the amendments. Then we can talk about a few changes instead of 40 amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u47	If you adopt amendments, they will simply be incorporated. I think, quite frankly, that a majority in the Chamber also wants that law to be passed now. We can also choose to hold a very long meeting about it. But even if we meet, we can't get the virus underneath. And we're gonna have a vaccine before a law. So I think it's just wise to deal with this bill. Much time has been devoted to tabling all kinds of amendments, which actually strengthen the law and parliamentary control over the measures we have to take. I therefore believe that it would be very useful to continue the discussion of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mrs. Buitenweg and then Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u49	First of all, it is very honorable that the Buitenweg amendment is being discussed all the time. "Buitenweg cum suis" would do a bit more justice, since everyone's fingerprints are on those exact texts. This just in advance. The fingerprints of the eight petitioners, I'm just saying. I think we should take some further steps here. I understand very well what Mr Hijink and others are saying. It is important that we be clear about this, because it is not just about communication. The intention, I assume, was indeed, also of the bill as it stands, to have more involvement of the Chamber. And I can also imagine, since the situation we were in, that there is more involvement of the Chamber in the Minister's bill. So that's true. But we come in a path where we have to do it for a long time on ministerial rules that are going to intervene very deeply in our lives. The Minister is always talking about Parliament's involvement, but I find that too non-binding. In the end, it's about Parliament's control. There is a big difference there, which I hope the Minister will acknowledge. It is not just about control, it is also about our co-legislative role. Just because it is about the longer term, I think that has been a mistake in the cabinet's assessment. Maybe the Minister can admit that, then we can talk about it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u50	Yeah, admit that? But then you have to find it. You knew the proposal, and then we are going to go into rather deep the measures, to put a ministerial arrangement before the Chamber. That's the bill as it stands. The Buitenweg amendment cum suis, with those eight signatories, proposes not only to refer to the Chamber, but also to an active ratification decision. Of course that is a firmer involvement of the Chamber, that is de facto an agreement of the Chamber with the proposals we are making. That goes on with your amendment. I believe that this will further strengthen parliamentary involvement. However, this parliamentary involvement also applies, of course, in the proposal before us. In any case, parliamentary involvement in the Netherlands is extremely intense. I speak to many colleagues from other countries and none of them has such an intense parliamentary involvement in the Corona approach. I think this fits our culture as well. I think this is something nice, too. But in the cabinet's proposal, the Chamber could also reject an arrangement by motion. Then you could say that in a formal sense a cabinet can still continue with this arrangement, even if it is rejected by a majority vote. But of course that is unwise and sometimes also life-spanning for a cabinet if it does so regularly. In short, my firm belief is that the original proposal also had a strong parliamentary commitment, but of course it recognises that your amendment, with a lot of other parties, goes a long way further. Of course. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yeah, but I already recognized that first part. So yes, there was greater parliamentary involvement, also in the Minister's proposal. The Minister continues to talk about Parliament's involvement. I said that at this stage I believe that, given the democratic rule of law in which we are in, these far-reaching measures should not only lead to a commitment that could result in motions, but should have control. The Minister says that the amended bill improves the law. That's great. We'll find each other on that. I think it would be helpful, given the length of time we have to work with ministerial arrangements that intervene so deeply in people's lives, and that it would not only have been better because of the wishes of the Chamber, but that it would have been better anyway and that it would have been good if the cabinet had understood that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u52	I very much agree with the conclusion that you have reached on the amendment before us, that this is a stronger role and involvement of the Parliament and thus, in fact, also control of the measure, because it requires an active ratification decision. So I share that very much. Should we have proposed this ourselves? I think that all those who tabled amendments think that a cabinet should have proposed it itself, because that would have been better. In this respect, I can follow Mrs Buitenweg's speech, but I would also point out that we ourselves, in the run-up to this legislative proposal of the original idea of a follow-up, which was considered appropriate by the Council of State, have made a veil over the urgency with which to take action. So the step towards a firmer involvement, control, of the parliament has taken the cabinet itself. You are going one step further, because you are making it an active endorsement. Indeed, that strengthens control even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u53	Why is it important to look back on this? Because the covid legislation isn't on its own. We also had the run-up to the CoronaMelder. We have had the discussion about masks, about testing or not, about test streets that were subsequently withdrawn. So the covid legislation is actually exemplary for the way things are announced with quite a lot of bravure, after which they can't take place quite like this. This causes social unrest and causes problems. I would like to make two comments on this and I have a question. First of all, this isn't the second version. This is the third version ahead. That also means that that self-critical ability can really be there. If this had been the second version, we would have had another discussion with each other. But this is the third version. A lot of comments have been made on the second version by state lawyers and all kinds of other people. I also hope that the Minister will acknowledge that. If you don't do it right the first time, and you don't do it right the second time, then it's also right that Parliament is very critical. So that's my first question. Then I have a second question later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u54	I very much recognise the intensity of the social debate about everything that is being proposed. I think that, to some extent, this is simply a projection of the concerns and uncertainties that exist in society. That's what you see most about this law, I think. You saw it around that app, too. That's not easy to operate on; I'd like to acknowledge that. Also in a communicative sense it is not easy to operate in a very polarized climate, in which a lot of misinformation is sometimes actually actively and consciously disseminated. It is not easy to communicate legislation and measures in such a climate in a good way. In that search for certainty, this unrest in coverage for people is often a reason for increasing concern. Then about this law and the trajectory that it has gone through. You say it's already the third version. Actually, that's always the case with a bill. That's what you're gonna consult on first. Then you send it to the Council of State and you get it back with advice. When you process that advice, you always have a third version that goes to the Chamber. That's what happened here. Here you see a big shift, also in the content. There were a number of elements in the consultation version that we deliberately took out. Then we really changed a number of elements after the Council of State came to us before it went to the Chamber. I think you can see from that that it has also been a matter of moving insight into how to deal with it in the Cabinet. I would like to say that every legislative proposal has that kind of moving insight, but rarely so visible and rarely so discussed, also in the social sense. Is the bill as it is now before the Chamber better than it was? Yes, of course, much better than it was. Reacting you can say that, for example, that element of maintaining behind the front door was understandable in the context of that moment, when we were actually still in the post-phase of that first wave. Everything we thought we needed to have instruments at the time, we wanted to regulate that law in a good way at once. But knowing that this is so much trouble and is actually of very little added value, we should not have put that into it, of course. That's how I look at that consultation version. But of course we have that often, that we look back on the consultation version and think: that could have been really different and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u55	On the one hand, the Minister shows self-confidence of the cabinet: it has caused too much unrest and it should have been better to estimate it in advance. At the same time, he says: there is so much uncertainty, which makes people misunderstand. But that's not the problem. People don't get it anymore because the cabinet doesn't think carefully enough in scenarios about what something means in society, what it means when you launch things, bring out legislative proposals, or announce things that you don't follow or that are not well thought out. Then I will now express my concern. We will soon have a law in which we as a parliament have a major role to play, but it cannot be that we are then confronted with ministerial arrangements in which we go into the same tombola every time, in the sense that there is no proper thought about what we should do. Next, the cabinet comes to us as a parliament and then we might be back on our feet again because there has been no proper thought about how we are going to do this. Then we end up together in a very strange construction. So my general appeal is: really learn from how we did it and make sure that there is peace in the coming time instead of the covid legislation bringing more unrest. This can only be done if the cabinet is really self-critical about how this has happened so far. That's still high on me, and I'm still really worried about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u56	Let me say two things. I'll be on my first block in a minute, and that's involvement parliament. I would like to explain how I see it in front of me. I am referring specifically to the amendment which has already been mentioned several times in conjunction with the questions of how it all works. Are you making one ministerial arrangement or more and shouldn't we want more predictability in it? In the last debate I had with your Chamber last week, it was also mentioned from a number of political groups. We made the choice for customization around the summer; that was very important at the time, not only the cabinet but also the Chamber. Customization, customization, customization, that was the motto at the time. But customization on the one hand and predictability on the other are not very easy to combine. More predictability means less customization. That remains a sort of exchange with each other where we need to find a good balance. This applies equally to speed to keep the virus under control and good, thorough involvement of Parliament. There too there is tension, which I think we recognize with each other in order to operate as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u57	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u58	That is exactly where the crux sits, and I think it is also grumpy for a number of colleagues who are still doubting whether they will go along with the bill. They see that legislation is needed because you cannot continue on the basis of emergency regulations, but at the same time are confronted with unrest and also by the bravure and insufficient thoughtfulness of the cabinet. So I very much hope that Minister De Jonge understands that and that the cabinet understands that and that there is an opportunity today to get those colleagues who still have doubts with it. This is legislation that I support because I think it is necessary, but not because I like the process and not because I want to hug the Minister, which is not even allowed. I support it because I think it is important for this society. I would like to do that with as many colleagues as possible, but that requires a little bit of the attitude of the cabinet and that demands what the future will be. That would be my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u59	I can see that. I agree, too. That means you have to be very careful in the combination. What I'm putting next to it is that, at a time when the polarization in society is already increasing, it's also very necessary to be very precise about what a law is or isn't, and about why a law is. If I keep hearing endlessly that this would be a powergrab of the cabinet, that the cabinet would want to be a sole ruler in this, then it is very difficult to keep saying: that law was never meant to be, because that law is precisely to involve the normal parliamentary relationship. If I'm walking down the street here, especially these weeks you'll experience that too. You'll have all kinds of groups of protesters around you. Over and over and over again, this law continues to make compulsory vaccination possible. No, he doesn't. It has been mentioned very often, it does not appear in that law, and yet I still hear that suggestion in this Chamber. If we want to communicate in a non-polarising way, you can expect the cabinet to do our job well. Quite rightly, that is a very justified appeal, but the appeal back is then careful about what this law does and does not regulate and about why this law does, because the concerns in society are great and we all have the responsibility to dampen polarisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u61	I can see that we are still not doing very well this morning to be convinced of this law. Maybe I'm in the same camp as Mr Hijink right now. What I notice very much about your comments and what bothers me very much is that state law scholars have made very clear criticisms. These are scientists who have indicated: this law is not democratic enough, it is undemocratic. They're just scientists; they have a point there. I find that you are a little confused about this unrest and the conspiracy theory that would be there about this law, and I think that is quite wrong. Because there is simply enough scientific basis that this law is not sufficiently democratic. That's what I'm focusing on. I really think that's gonna put those lawyers out of the way. I really think that's very wrong. I would like that to be corrected. That feeling seems to me very much in the last hour. There are certainly conspiracy theories, and we certainly have to fight them, but there were also a lot of scientists who were right to say: this is not enough. I really think you should take these two apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u62	I think that's right. Sure. I have read comments that I thought: there is a good point. I also read comments that I thought were: well, there's actually not that much in there. But I get that a lot; of course you see that more often. But that's right. There have certainly been meaningful reflections, meaningful comments. And I think we are also taking advantage of it, and the Chamber is taking advantage of it in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u63	One final comment. Thank you, at least, for these words. Only, as far as the Animal Party is concerned, you could have taken advantage of it, because I do not think that those state lawyers have just given their views and that all their criticisms could have been taken into account in previous versions. So now, as a Chamber, or at least part of the opposition and coalition together, we have to consider those constitutional points in amendments, is repairing something that I think has been passed on to the government by those state lawyers for a long time in recent months. So I think it's a real shame that this government didn't catch that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u64	That is not entirely true either, because of course we have had a consultation version that really did deviate from the final version that went to the Council of State. And the version that came back from the Council of State, which went to your Chamber, has been a different version from the consultation version. So yes, this is the way a legislative process is going. And gradually you see comments that you think are: yes, that is useful, yes, they actually have a point, yes, that is indeed how we need to strengthen the proposal. We actually do that with every law, and that has certainly happened here. But that doesn't mean that your footsteps overdo everything in a newspaper and then type in the law. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u65	I would like to return to the support base and what the Minister says about it. I understand him very well when he says that people worry in uncertain times where we live and that disinformation can also lead to people's concerns getting bigger. Then I think it is up to all of us to ensure that we remove these concerns as much as possible. We are doing this here, yesterday and today, by intensively discussing this law, by submitting, with coalition and some of the opposition, a large number of amendments to make the law even better. But that also requires something from the Minister. I think it calls on the Minister to take the lead in working on that basis. My question is: what is the Minister going to do today to show that he is taking that lead, that he is actively working on increasing that support?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u66	That is a question you asked yesterday. What we want to do in this is that we really want to highlight everything in this law in a good way by paying attention to this law on all channels of government, all channels available to the government. By answering the many questions that also exist in society in a good way. And a number of times, of course, we do more things in addition to that. I recently held a Facebook live session with the Prime Minister. What we do sometimes is have an Instagram live session, just to answer questions that simply live in society. So what we do is that after the treatment in the House of Representatives and of course only after the treatment can we establish a very good communication plan in the House of Representatives. We are going to work hard on this, to ensure that we bring to light the content and the why of this law in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u67	That sounds good, but I think it can help in the process, in addition to that explanation, to take the reflection on how the journey has gone so far. I do have a bit of a taste of that in the Minister's office, but I do see him pointing to the process as such and the way it is going: from consultation to advice from the Council of State, to submission to the Chamber and to the room for the Chamber to tighten things up even further. I think it will help if we also reflect on the question: what was the original starting point and where will we be countries when the Chamber votes on the law, including the appreciation of the amendments that the Minister is sure to give today? It helps to take that reflection, because it also responds to the concerns that people have had from the beginning, and which may not have had to be quite like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u68	It seems to me to be a very good suggestion to give a little more explanation of the course of the process. What has ever been in it and what hasn't been in it? How was it finally adopted? I think that's a very good one. So I like to take it with me; I like to take it from here. 'Cause there's a lot of questions about that, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u69	I notice that today we are getting much closer to each other than I initially thought yesterday, but I do have a problem. We must now take a decision on a law that is before us with amendments whose appreciation we do not yet know but which go far beyond normal laws. There has really been a change in everything. Mr. Van Haga came up with the proposal to take a little more time, so that we can all see what we are actually going to vote on. Then I ask the Minister: isn't that time really there? This could perhaps provide much more support. The unrest in society has not just arisen. It exists. If you want that law to be actually passed, you will need that support not only from us but also from the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u70	In fact, this is what I have just said to Mr Van Haga. Look, I'll let you do anything. If you want a different trial: you are the Chamber itself dealing with the handling of legislative proposals. Only, I think it is unwise and that a large part of the Chamber thinks that the wish that was actually expressed in the Chamber in April, May, must now be fulfilled. Otherwise we will have to go on with the current Public Health Act, with the current emergency regulations and with the current indications. I think the House agrees with a large majority that this is not really desirable in the legal sense. People are not aware of this, only in the legal sense that is not desirable. As far as the number of amendments is concerned, let us not make it any bigger than it is. There aren't 40, there are 13, of which some are replacing earlier versions. That's not so exceptional for a bill, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u71	I have rarely seen a bill cause so much unrest. It's not just about us here in the Chamber. I think most of us can follow you for a part. But society doesn't follow you. Can't we do something about that? It's just a genuinely common call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u72	I think that, bearing in mind Mrs Kuik's appeal just now, as well as Mr Veldman's appeal, to us, to me and to the cabinet, it is to communicate in a good way about this law and anyway to communicate in a restless time, in a polarizing society, as thoroughly and intensively as possible, so that people can experience what we are doing and why we are doing things the way we are doing them. I believe that it is also our responsibility to do justice to the proposal as it stands and to do justice to the law as it stands and as it will apply in the future. If we feel the responsibility of each other not to be polarizing in communication but depolarizing, I think we can actually take good steps. Mr President, I should like to say a few words about Parliament's involvement. That is actually the core of the law, the core of the criticism in the Chamber, I think, and the core of the improvement proposals. I would therefore like to go into this as thoroughly as possible. We have just discussed a lot; I can all skip all the introductory texts. I would like to deal with this on the basis of the amendments. Now I know that you are not fond of that because it may be a bit messy to have to remember later what was actually the opinion of the cabinet. But let us do it this way: I am doing the amendments that just fit in with the story, because they are at the heart of the debate. Then at the end I will recapitulate what the judgment of the cabinet has been. Then I shall begin with the many-mentioned Buitenweg and others amendment. Below are the names: Buitenweg, Keiken, Van Dam, Veldman, Groothuizen, Van der Graaf, Van der Staaij and Van Brenn. So that is a large number of parties. This amendment has broad support. Of course, not only for this reason, but also for substantive reasons, this amendment will receive a ruling from the Chamber. I would like to say a few things about it, because it is linked to a question that Mrs Buitenweg has asked: how and when does the Minister intend to use Article 3 in order to act urgently in relation to the royal route that is actually regulated by this amendment? There are also a number of questions, among others from Mr Van Dam and Mr Van der Staaij. How do you deal with it when you have such a package of measures? If you make that a ministerial arrangement, how does it work? Will this be an arrangement for each measure, or will it be a large ministerial arrangement? First of all, on the amendment. The amendment does two things: it replaces the suspension procedure as proposed and makes it an active ratification by the Chamber. This gives the Chamber effective control and a stronger parliamentary involvement than was initially proposed. In my view, that is a step that is simply in line with the way in which the Chamber is judged. It was in any case the intention of the law that the bill should really be strengthened. This amendment also does something else. It replaces the safety net clause, as it was in the original law. There's a vulnerability in that, I'm just saying. The purpose of this safety net provision was precisely to continue to operate effectively as a cabinet. There's just a field of tension in there. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik heb het over grondige, gedegen betrokkenheid van het parlement enerzijds en slagvaardig kunnen opereren als kabinet anderzijds.]] This is something Parliament expects and can expect from the cabinet. But there's just a field of tension that doesn't just get solved. Yesterday, Mrs Buitenweg asked a question of conscience: would you have chosen as a cabinet for Article 3, namely to operate as a matter of urgency, because we had to act immediately last week? The honest answer to that question is: yes, we had indeed done so. Why? Because exponential growth can be so treacherous that, if we observe that we need to take action, we do not have time to meet for eight days before those measures begin. I have to explain that, because I can imagine that you say: you take your own time to take action first, then you take them and then suddenly there would be no time to talk about it quietly. Let's take a look back at last week. Last Monday we had the press conference. We actually planned it on Tuesday, but we brought it up one day, because we saw something happen in the numbers. How's that going? We have arranged the week so that on Monday we make the first observations on the numerical development. So we are also doing the regional classification, the risk scale of the various regions. Then on Wednesday we have the talk with each other about what we will definitely do about it. Between Monday and Wednesday we saw that at that time I was talking about a deterioration of the Hague countries and Rotterdam in particular two weeks ago. At first only Amsterdam seemed to have to deal with that third level of risk, but on Wednesday the figures showed that Amsterdam and The Hague were moving in that direction quite quickly. When we spoke in the Council of Ministers on Friday about the measures we were going to take for these big cities, we saw at the same time that a number of other regions were also moving in the direction of Amsterdam. You can see how fast that can go. When we held that press conference on Monday, I said that we are now at 3,000 infections a day; with the reproduction factor of this moment, it is plausible to assume that with about a large week from now we will reach 5,000 infections. It went exactly that way. How do we know that? This has to do with the fact that you know with a reproduction factor of 1.3 and a reproduction time of 4 to 5 days that you have to operate at this rate each time. So between the observation that measures are needed, the moment when you can actually take those measures and the moment when they have to go in, we very often don't have the time in those weeks, as this amendment would actually assume in the royal route. Nevertheless, if this amendment is adopted, we have to relate to it. I think that we should then look for a solution that is also in line with another wish expressed by the cabinet, namely to achieve more predictability of measures that you take at a given time: in what situation and at what degree of contamination do you take what measures? That is a wish expressed in the Jetten motion for a resolution, and also in that motion again. I don't know who was under that, but I think the motion was widely worn in the Chamber. The desire for predictability has now replaced an initial wish for much more customization. And I understand that, too. In this connection, we need to come up with a proposal to the Chamber for a package that we will send to the Chamber first and then discuss with each other, in order to implement the Jet motion. We could do that in a draft version next week, for example. Then we need to talk to the Chamber about this and if we are to continue with this package of measures, we need to make it a ministerial arrangement. Then we have both the predictability and the thoroughness that parliamentary involvement demands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u73	That is the point of the amendment to item No. 30 by Mrs Buitenweg c.s.?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u75	That's what you said all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u76	Well, everything... Pretty much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u77	Almost. At least on this amendment. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u78	Indeed, the safety net clause also comes out. There were two elements in that. One is that measures could also be taken which were not provided for in this delegation law. I would like to inform the Minister that emergency laws are always possible in times of need. We in the Chamber have also shown that even in three days we can do business with a quick response from the Council of State. So it's not like everything's lost in there. It is important, also for reliability and trust, that there is not such an open provision. The invitation that we deal with things quickly in times of need is for all of us, but by the First and Second Chambers. It also stated that in times of urgency a decision can be taken more quickly than in a week. The Minister is now making it sound like we made up that week, but in his original legislative proposal it was also customary that the measures should only come into force after a week, but then we could have said things in the context of engagement in that week. What we're changing is that we're taking control of it. He had also foreseen in his own proposal that it would normally take a week. Can he confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u79	Sure, but with a conscious safety net clause to be able to take back on the instructions and emergency regulations as regulated in the Wpg. I think that the proposal you are making is really an improvement on that. In the form of a ministerial arrangement, this is more tidy. But I'd like to be honest with you about the expectations. If, over and over again in the next few weeks, I call on Article 3 of the amendment, you will in the long term say: has the cabinet not understood our amendment correctly, because we really meant that the royal route would be that we would first proceed with ratification and that the measure would then take effect. And when I look back at how we have come up with measures over the past few weeks and months, you do the observation first and then put together a good package of measures. You have an opinion from the OMT that involves you. And then when you take the measure, it goes straight into the next day because it's so necessary. I don't think that's what you want. So I am looking for a form in which I can shape parliamentary involvement in a more solid way. As a cabinet, we will relate to this amendment. I do not promise that we will never make use of Article 3, because we will, but then we will motivate very well why we are doing so, from the point of view of the content and urgency of epidemiology. In addition, I am looking for a form in which I can combine what the Jetten motion asks for with the desire for a more solid, calmer parliamentary involvement than 'everything in the rush'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u80	Then I'll rephrase it from involvement to control. I'd like that here. I can follow that up, because I think that if every time the Chamber is seized on Article 3, it is right to say: that was not the intention. Then it is indeed important that it is all a bit more predictable and that we are not all watching press conferences to see which rabbit is coming out of the hat again, that you know that. It is indeed good for the ratings, but for the support a little less. My question is: are we at a stage where this can happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u81	Well, you also saw the numbers yesterday. Of course, these figures make it necessary to consider whether the package of measures is adequate and whether you should go through with the current package of measures. Scaling really doesn't seem real right now. We will have to look at the way in which this trend continues and whether it continues, or whether it is actually going to deflect, which we hope, of course. We are also counting on the measures taken last Monday or last Monday. We will send the House a progress note on Tuesday. Now imagine that it will lead to additional measures. Then, of course, these are additional measures that you would like to take up as soon as possible. If you see how hard hospitalizations are going to get, apart from the infections, then we would not be doing ourselves any great pleasure if we were to meet for eight more days first. That's not helping. That helps the virus, but that doesn't help the approach. We must therefore always take the necessary measures in this context. But I also want to relate to this amendment, because I fully understand the desire for a normal, sound debate. If you say "that control doesn't matter just because it's involved," then that also means that we make that control possible. That is why I am looking for a combination in which I say honestly to you: I will, of course, argue it well, but if it is necessary for the approach, we will not hesitate to use Article 3. But at the same time, I also want to see more predictability for people. Mr Jetten said in his motion not only Mr Jetten, in fact all the political groups have said that where we were talking about more customization, more customization, more customization around the summer, we now see that we are depending on whether or not we are taking the right measures, and that it is very unpredictable for people what is coming. That was very predictable at first, in the spring. Then we had a roadmap and we are taking steps on the road map. Actually, you want that predictability back. And you want to do justice to the differences between regions. This means that you come up with a model in which, depending on the level of infection, you have some measures to take at least on the basis of that level of infection in regions. I think that, given this system, once the law has actually been passed and is in the Official Journal, we should include it in a ministerial arrangement which we submit to you, regardless of the capacity utilisation outside, as the model as it has to work with measures you have to take, given the circumstances regarding the degree of contagion at that time. This is a lot of lyrics. In any case, let me write out our proposal in the letter of next Tuesday so that we can have the debate on this system of works. In doing so, I think I can do justice to both of these things: and can act as a cabinet if there is urgency, and can be as predictable as possible about what measures have been given to the level of infection at which stage the epidemic has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr Van der Staaij and then Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u83	I share the Minister's point that the aim of the amendment is not, as far as I am concerned, to increase the pressure for a meeting, but rather to link the debates that are already taking place as well as they are. I'm gonna hit another point, too. I think the Minister is now creating a very sharp contradiction, by saying: do you want customization or do you want predictability? While, in my opinion, customization is somewhat opposed to uniformity and predictability against unpredictability. Does the Minister also see the possibility of continuing to pursue tailor-made work in a variety of areas, where the softening or tightening of a button can still be predictable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u84	Yeah, I can see that. But I've chosen that sharpness quite deliberately. We have always seen that, depending on the degree of contagion and our concern about it, we ourselves have a progressive understanding of it. We have that progressive insight as a cabinet, but I also notice that in the Chamber and in society. If we take the film back and go back to just before the summer, then we see that there were debates asking: what is the cabinet talking about? It was said that there are 2,000 infectious agents per day; the chances of encountering someone who is contagious are extremely low. That has been a bit of the discourse in which the first draft of this law has landed. The tone at the average talk show table is now very different. That makes a lot more noises of concern. That's perfectly right. That's concern the Cabinet has, too. Where there was more plea for more customization and more sounds about scaling down measures, there are now many more sounds for harder intervention and more uniform intervention. To be honest, I think that makes sense and will never be completely gone. We will always, in our social unrest, the social reaction and also in the political appreciation of it, always go along with it, I think, in the way that those waves of that virus go through society. Are uniformity and predictability mutually exclusive on the one hand and yet also customization on the other? No, that's not mutually exclusive. I don't think we're going to go back to the whole rudeness we had in March. For example, I would like to refer to Mrs Van Brenk's amendment on nursing homes. I think we all support that direction. The rudeness of, for example, that measure does not really provide sufficient room for customization. That was right then, but of course we had very little view of the virus. In the meantime we have a lot more view of the virus, so that actually makes more customization possible. I therefore share the desire for customisation, but I also see the great need for predictability and uniformity. There is much reference to that Irish model, with that card at which stage you can receive how many people at home. I think this is an example of a type of uniformity and predictability that I think is desirable. I see it as a broad-based question from the Chamber, but also from society, in order to make it more explanatory. Sometimes too much uniformity can undermine interpretation and acceptance. That's true, too. We also have to take that into account. We have both of these things to combine. Now that I'm so out loud deliberating about what I'm trying to bring together here, I realize all the more that's gonna be a pretty complicated job. It will be a search in which we still have to find the center.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u85	Perhaps at this stage we should move from the intelligent lockdown to intelligent customization, because what I see now is not very intelligent customization, for example in the cultural sector. There is a very tough minimum standard, but at the same time there are a number of exceptions with a lot of them, for example 600 people in the Brabanthallen, people say: what about that? Then on the one hand you have a very rigid standard and on the other hand a very limited number of exceptions with a lot. That calls for incomprehension. In fact, I would like to argue for precisely this fineness of intelligent customization, in which you also take into account all kinds of measures that have been taken and the question of how risks can be mitigated. It would be nice if we could take that as a lesson from the first wave and say: let's not go back to the greatest rigidity in the panic of contagion; let's take action, but let's do it intelligently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u86	Two things about that. Where you limit the group size, that does not always have to do with that 1.5 meter could not be handled. Of course, that misunderstanding sneaks into it at some point. It has to do with the lesson from this spring and the lesson we have learned from actually all the other countries that received the first wave underneath it. That lesson is: reduce the contact moments in the sum of the total number of movements in society. A group size of 30 of course feels very different when you are in De Kuip or when you are in a very large church than when you are in a very small theatre. Of course it matters. In any case, reducing group size helps to reduce the number of social contacts, reducing the number of movements. It is precisely by reducing the number of contacts and the number of movements that actually helped us in March with rather few legally binding measures, but by saying'stay at home' to each other, to get that first wave under way. Those group size measures are designed to reduce social contact and reduce the number of movements in society. That's how you understand it. That's one. Two is: insufficient space for customization can undermine the basis of support. Why would 30 in our theatre or our church be an appropriate number? Isn't there more room for customization here and shouldn't we be looking at this with more customization? But you are right to say that the mere fact that there has sometimes been a very eager use of the exception available to a number of cultural institutions has not done the right thing. Because then you also get the people who like to sit in De Kuip or in the church on the phone on Sunday. They say, if Carré can be excluded from the 30, why can't we? Too little customization can undermine the basis of support, but too much customization can also undermine the basis of support. Because then it's not clear anymore and then it becomes unfairly perceived. We have to take these two aspects into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u87	What strikes me is that the Minister is now very eager to have the one exception clause in the Buitenweg and Others amendment. Picked up. He embraces that clause as an emergency measure to take prior measures in those cases where he considers it necessary, without the assent of the Chamber. I don't like that eagerness. The criticism of the cabinet is precisely that in the strategy and in the measures announced, too little is clear what people can expect. That's what the Minister himself said. You'd actually want a model like in Ireland. I also saw an example from North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany. Then it is much clearer at which level of contamination which measures are being taken. The question is, of course, why is that schedule still not there? Of course, that should have been there by now. What people are afraid of is that now that the number of infections is rising again, Monday or Tuesday from the grabbelton suddenly reappears which we could have discussed here a long time ago, just in case. So my question to the Minister is: why is he embracing this exception clause in order to act so eagerly without the assent of the Chamber, and does he not put much more emphasis on prior explicit discussion of potential measures with the Chamber? Then you're better prepared and then your strategy is clear. And then we in this country do not need to be run on the basis of press conferences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u88	I want to be honest, to be clear and not create false expectations about the need for urgency. I am convinced that the Chamber will always see that in that context. I understand, of course, that we will have to argue that very well. But in the context of exponential growth, it is necessary. If you look at the reproduction layers of, for example, the current R-factor of 1,3 times 3,000 infections, so it was last Monday, on the basis of two layers of reproduction before you notice anything, we and you already knew that we would be at 5,000 infections in the middle of this week and that this would falter in the hospitals. And our solemn promise must be that we will not overload care and that we will protect our vulnerable people well. In this context, it is necessary to take urgent action. I want to be honest about that. I see, of course, the intention with which this amendment has been tabled. I also know that in urgent circumstances the Chamber will always say: of course fine, do so. But if I only use that article three, four or five times in a row, I am also sure that Mrs Buitenweg is right to say that that was not the royal route we proposed. That's why I'm saying the other thing. We are going to relate to this amendment in a way whereby we are going to submit to the Chamber the measures which we have to take as a result of a certain degree of contagion in a region, so that the Chamber can actually exercise its control over such a package of measures. That's what we want to do. That is why I also describe these two aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u89	The Minister now confirms that the criticism of the cabinet is justified. Of course, what he's saying isn't true. You've seen the number of infections growing since the summer. From the summer onwards, you can calculate numerically that we will be at 5,000 infections around this period, and you know that will continue if no intervention is taken. If you only now come up with measures and have to resort to urgent procedures to take them back through the Chamber, then you are too late. That is precisely the criticism that is widely shared in this cabinet. Then you're too late. If you see it coming for weeks, then you have already had weeks to submit the measures you may have to take and perhaps should have taken to the Chamber. That's why I'm yelling at this. The need for urgency and emergency procedures does not arise if the cabinet has a strict strategy, is well prepared and knows the measures that we can possibly introduce. Then you don't have to follow emergency procedures very often, because then you know what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u90	If you sum it up like that, you're gonna pass up on how we did it. We do not need to repeat last week's debate, but we have of course acted on the basis of the model as we had worked out, as it was discussed in the Chamber and also accepted by the Chamber. I know that in the Chamber there has always been a great desire for customization. That is how we set it up, and this is how we decided. In Hindsight, we ourselves said: you should actually increase the level of risk 2 measures in order to be able to have more expectations of the extent to which this package of measures actually keeps things under control. What we have also said is: you should actually have less possibilities for customization, at least more measures that can be taken at any rate from a certain rate of occupancy, because that not only makes things more predictable, but also makes it easier in the decision-making process at that time. That is why we are working on this motion for a resolution. I shall come back to that in the direction of the Chamber. I think we can both do the following things. One. We can do justice to the need and the urgency that will always be there, because the virus is extremely agile and treacherous, and so we must relate to it as drivers. You need to be able to take those measures that are necessary at some point. Two. In addition, we can work on the predictability of measures, and thus also on the calmness with which the measures can also be discussed and debated in this Parliament. They can then be included in a ministerial arrangement, which must also be actively endorsed by the parliament. So I think we are doing exactly those two things that are also wanted by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u91	Finally, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u92	Finally, because I don't think it's going well. To give you an example, the curfew is often mentioned. I think it is a far-reaching measure that creates false associations. But suppose such a measure would be proposed. Suppose this law was already in force and we should now be working under this law. I do not want to see that, if we have been seeing the number of infections for a very long time, we will be told on the day of the emergency-law press conference that we are only introducing a curfew, because this cabinet did not come to the Chamber two weeks earlier with a decent proposal, knowing that the infections were on the rise. That's my point. And in my view, if you want to take this law seriously, you should not want to use these urgent procedures too eagerly, but to ensure that the legislation is in order and that the arrangements are in place, in case they are needed. That they need to be able to get in quickly, I agree. Then we can talk about the content. But then you do not want to be robbed too often on the day of the press conference with arrangements that should have been there a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u93	I understand that and I share what Mr Hijink has just said, from a to z. I'm wrong about keeping the opportunity. I do not want to hide the fact that we have to keep these possibilities of urgency, if the situation so requires. But we will always have to answer for this in the Chamber. As soon as the Chamber finds that we have operated in an inadequate manner, the Chamber is obviously also equipped with an exuberant toolbox to do something about it. But I agree with Mr Hijink on the following. What you must want is for us to work as far forward as possible. This is true in terms of predictability, but also in terms of the intention of this amendment, namely a thorough parliamentary examination of the ministerial regulation. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mrs. Van der Graaf and then Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u95	I'm gonna do a double check. Because I think the Minister underestimates the message of such a press conference. At the moment Minister De Jonge stands there with the Prime Minister and says: we think it wise not to organise events and meetings of more than 100 people from now on. This happened on 12 March, for example. Then, on March 13th, a clue was given from the Ministry to the security regions: do you want to put that in your emergency regulation as well? The first emergency regulations have not been published before 16 March. Since the 12th of March, we have been a long way on the road, while, of course, since the 12th, everyone in the country has started to think: what exactly does this mean to me, because that rule is coming. So I'd like to ask the Minister something. The Minister heard very well what the Chamber said. The spirit of this amendment is: put that measure before the Chamber, then we can talk about it. But do not underestimate the effects of these press conferences and the messages that are being put down there. In this respect, do not take too quickly to the exception contained in paragraph 3 of this amendment, but do justice to the statements that we have made here as a Chamber and which we are about to adopt by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u96	That's what I heard. I understand that intention, too. I have also said that, of course, we are going to do our best to relate to this. But the point is that the virus doesn't relate to that. The virus doesn't know the law. That will continue to spread joyfully in the coming period. This means that with a slightly higher reproductive factor, you know that you can always determine the reproductive factor only two weeks later than when it actually occurs; exponential growth will therefore always remain a treacherous phenomenon. I certainly don't underestimate the impact of a press conference. But when you announce "it's very urgent; we're going to take this measure and, oh yes, it's going in in eight days," people say: oh, in that case it's obviously not all that bad. So, of course, that is not a great way of crisis communication either. We will therefore relate to this. We will ensure that the measures we are taking are as predictable as possible, but I really must argue that as a cabinet I always want to keep the opportunity to do what is necessary to get that virus under control. Because meeting, we can't control the virus; we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u97	Then I really think that the Minister underestimates why people in the Netherlands have actually complied with these rules as much as possible. That's not because it was exactly included in that emergency regulation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u98	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u99	... and because this was based on a coercion clause which was often followed by the imposition of a fine or the possible imposition of a fine. No, that was because people saw the urgency of it. They were convinced that it would be wise to stay away and not come together with 100 people now: "Let me follow this up and discuss it with my own people."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u100	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u101	So I really think that the Minister here is also doing himself a little short of the message he is sending. But I really want to urge him not to deal lightly with what we are dealing with here in this amendment. Because if you say that people are not going to live up to it when you say that it doesn't start for eight days, then I think that the Minister at that time doesn't express enough confidence in the people in the country. In my view, that is the basis on which we live together at the moment. I hope that the cabinet will also guarantee this in its policies, in its expressions and in its choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u102	I'm all over it. I'm all over it. They are often not actually legally-designed measures that have the most effect. I would just like to point out that I have to state that we will call for urgent procedure if necessary. Two: in a press conference like this, you show the urgency. We have planned that we will simply share with the Netherlands what we know for a long time during the entire crisis. We're not gonna hold back any facts. We are going to share what we know, because we live in a mature country and because we do not need to be ruled by decree, measure or obligation, because we all have common sense. Of course, it is up to us to share the advice we receive from the experts. Of course, it is up to us to share the facts concerning the spread of the virus, but not everything is going to be resolved by decree or by measure. Measures are not what this virus eventually gets under; that's our behavior. This is how our press conferences will always be organized and the communication from the cabinet will always be organized. But I say to that: do you imagine that we are communicating about the situation as "urgent" and that we then say that the pubs are closed one or two hours earlier or at 10 p.m. and "oh yes, that is in eight days," then society will think: huh, it was urgent? I do not think that is understood. In terms of crisis communication, therefore, I believe that you will also have to consider the way you communicate, including the starting date of a measure. Thinking back to March: then everything had to go head-on and of course it was all rather raucous, also in the way we gave it shape back then. We don't want that anymore. We want that better and more predictable. As Mr Hijink and, in my view, Mrs Buitenweg have just said, be predictable in the measures you are taking and make sure that a ministerial arrangement is also ready on the day you need it. In that spirit, we want to operate, so that we do not have to resort to this urgency clause more often than necessary. I just don't want to leave the possibility unnamed. That's why I just want to be honest about how we're gonna use that every now and then when we need to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u103	Finally, Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u104	Last but not least. I understand and I hear what the Minister has just said. But I would like to say that the exception confirms the rule. And the rule is: the arrangements are submitted to the Chamber first. It is good to make that clear in this debate, which is also part of the legal history and which sets out how this law should be applied. I hope the Minister will take that to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u105	Agreed. Yeah, I'll share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u106	I have a brief question for the Minister. That short question is: is the Minister prepared to write a manual on Articles 58d and 58e in view of the concerns of the mayors, the aldermen and the Security Council, a kind of roadmap to which they have a clue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u107	I'm just gonna get the continuous text.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u108	Sure. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u109	If we're going to recite the codes with each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u110	I think Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has been very brief. Well, that's a plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u111	Anyway. All the compliments for the shortness of the question. Let me now turn to the shortness of the answer. I think the shortness of the answer is that Mrs Ollongren will be discussing it shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u112	The Minister of the Interior is getting on tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u113	That's what I'm talking about. But it was short. Mr. Chairman. We're going to the next amendment. One down, two to go. That is the amendment by Van Raak and Van der Staaij to item No. 15, in place of Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 15, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace Amendment No 1, to replace That's about deleting the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mr. Hijink, you've just been here. Did you forget something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u115	No, just a little point of order. We just had Buitenweg. We have made a small sub-amendment to that amendment. Is it useful that we do that right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u116	In relation to each other? I don't know how the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u117	That sounds like a fantastic choreography, but I'm gonna have to get it over with. What number is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u118	36 or 37.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u119	37.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u120	Let me explain something. In the meantime, the Minister can look it up. It concerns the question of why only the Lower House should agree to the regulations and why the Upper House should be passed in this regard. We'd like to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u121	It's not so much "passed." It does mean that you are debating the content of a ministerial arrangement, about the continuation... The primate is, of course, in the Lower House. This amendment was at the bottom of the pile. I would really advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u122	I wouldn't think that was a good case. I understand that regulations are presented to the House of Representatives more often. I understand. Only, in this particular case, where it is really about restricting fundamental rights, I think that the First Chamber should have an important say in it. You can't say: the House of Representatives decides that and we leave the First Chamber out of it. And certainly not, because it doesn't have to make a difference in time. It's gonna be a week. You're asking for the approval of both chambers that same week. So in terms of time and urgency, it doesn't have to matter. Then we would say: if you want parliamentary involvement, if you want parliamentary relations, say the Minister himself, to restore it, then you should apply it to the entire parliament and not just to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u123	I would think that there really is a difference and then you're actually going to have the same debate twice. In addition, the political primacy really lies with the House of Representatives. As regards the law and the legislative system, as the law is also laid down, this temporary law should of course be dealt with in both chambers, because otherwise you have no law. However, with regard to the content of the ministerial regulation and the opposition that applies to the ministerial regulation, as well as to the ratification decision as laid down in Mrs Buitenweg's amendment, I sincerely believe that this really belongs only in the House of Representatives. So I'm going to dissuade this amendment. That is the amendment to item No. 37. I shall go back to the amendment to part No. 15. That actually does something similar to at least part of Mrs Buitenweg's amendment. It deletes the safety net clause as laid down in the law. As such, I find it difficult to simply delete the safety net clause. I have difficulty with it, but not so much because of that part of it, which concerns broadening the possibility of a measure: now classified in the law on which the measures may go. The rights that are limited are currently included in the article-by-article subject matter on which that measure should be addressed. I don't think that's a problem. Mrs Buitenweg rightly says: if you think it is necessary to take a measure that is not covered by this law in terms of legal basis, then you simply have to do an emergency legislative procedure, because then you can still take that measure if you think it is necessary. I don't find that problematic, but the other thing is. For reasons of urgency, I find it problematic. But that is dealt with by the Buitenweg amendment. If the Buitenweg amendment is adopted, I can leave the opinion on this amendment to the House, because that does not matter de facto. Only in that combination can I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the amendment to item No. 27 by Mr Groothuizen to replace the amendment printed on item No. 5 the duration of the law is shortened from six to three months. For history: in the original draft of the bill that went in consultation and to the Council of State, it stood for one year. As a result of the Council of State's response, this has been cut by half to six months. And if this amendment is adopted, the duration is cut by half to three months. It is a good thing that there is no right of amendment in the First Chamber, because otherwise I think we were stuck with a law for a month and a half. Nevertheless, I can well imagine that we will discuss the usefulness and necessity of this law with some intensity. That is why I leave the judgment on this to the Chamber. In addition, I give the forward guidance that the virus will not be gone in three months. So I do expect that in three months' time we will simply extend it. For as long as that nasty virus is not gone, we will really have to take measures that deserve an adequate legal basis, otherwise we will have to fall back on the Wpg. Then I look at the amendment on the involvement of the Council of State. I don't have the number of that ready right now. That is an amendment by Van der Staaij and Van der Graaf. Has that been filed and what number does it have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u124	Probably 26, I hear. Is that him? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u125	Is that 26? I could leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. This means that the Section of the Council of State is heard every three months on the measures in force. If we do that in the same rhythm as the extension decision we have to submit to the Chamber, then you can also include the Council of State's opinion in that extension decision. Then there is the amendment to item No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u126	Before you continue... Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u127	Thank you for that judgment. It also has to do with the fact that I am saying this in the background, because it is also in place of an earlier amendment, and we thought that the role of the Council of State in a ministerial arrangement is actually missing. I have been persuaded that an AMvB would take too much time, so it is understandable that you still opt for a ministerial arrangement. What this amendment aims to do is to allow the Council of State to respond to this report on the part of the cabinet after all. But that does require that the Cabinet is also willing to provide the information the Council of State needs to be able to advise on this. Does the Minister see that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u128	Of course, but as I read the amendment, it is a quarterly report. That's how I got it, right? Of course, we will provide all the information the Council of State needs anyway. But I do think we should be careful not to involve the Council of State too much in the policy process. I don't think we should. What we need to do is to involve the usefulness, necessity and added value of the measures in an extension decision, given the fact of the moment, but in the context of the measures taken in the months that have passed. I think that's quite right. That does indeed mean providing information to the Council of State, certainly. Then let's have a little ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u129	Yeah, sure, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u130	Then I have the amendment to item No. 35 down. That is an amendment tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. This is on the same subject as the Buitenweg and Others amendment just discussed. They ask that, if a Chamber does not agree to its draft, a ministerial arrangement should not automatically be ratified and automatically lapsed. But I don't think that's a good idea. That's some kind of automatic set-off. That's too much for me. That is why I think the balance in the Buitenweg amendment is better. So I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u131	I find it a bit exciting to stand up for the amendment tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. I don't know what my judgment is yet either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u132	But it also has something beautiful. It's got something nice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u133	It's also a little bit because of their absence. I want to seriously understand the judgment of the cabinet. I read it in a way that this is about the extension. I'm looking at my colleague Hijink. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u134	Let's see. Am I reading it wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u135	In Chapter 8, fourth paragraph, a sentence is added. Chapter 8 deals with the extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u136	Exactly, you're absolutely right. Excuse me, I didn't read it properly. You're absolutely right. It's about the extension. That doesn't make the judgment any different, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u137	That is another reason for Mr Hijink...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u138	It's about an extension KB that we're hanging out with the Chamber before it's in effect. It says: if the draft has not been approved, it will lapse and the extension will expire. That's how I read the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u139	It has to be explained properly. If that's what you think, you can say it in the interrupting microphone, because it's an amendment. Or Mr. Hijink will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u140	I don't have to defend Van Haga's amendment. I myself have a much better amendment, so I would like to put it to the Minister. It does touch on it, because it is about regulating the formal consent of both chambers for the extension of the law, after three months, if that of Groothuizen is adopted. It seems to us that, and the minister himself actually said it as well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u141	I don't know, Minister... You are now finishing on this amendment? 'Cause that looks a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u142	I thought I'd take a little piece of advice to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u143	He just grabbed me for supporting the amendment, Mr. Chairman. I mean to say that the Minister himself just said that for regulations the primacy lies with the House of Representatives. You can discuss that in this particular case. We believe that the Supreme Court should also be able to rule on it. But when it comes to the law itself and the extension of the law, we find it perfectly logical for both chambers to give formal consent to it, especially because it is about restricting fundamental rights. That is why I come to the microphone, because it is touching on Van Haga's amendment, but it is just a little better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u144	36 was that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u145	The same appreciation applies to this. Well, that's a KB extension, 'cause that's what you do. This includes, following the amendment tabled by Mr van der Staaij, which the Council of State has also expressed its view on this matter. Such an extension KB is then discussed with a wallpaper here in the Lower House. If we are going to make it both a Second Chamber treatment and a First Chamber treatment, you are essentially doing a full legal treatment in both Chambers every three months. That really doesn't fit in with the way we need to fight this crisis, I think. I think it is really much more appropriate to opt for a suspension procedure as it is now. So also this amendment in part No. In the view of Mr Hijink, 36, it was more gracefully expressed than the amendment in part No. 35, that's why I'm not gonna recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u146	I find this particularly unwise of this minister, because it will abolish the First Chamber, after the role she will be given when this law is being dealt with, at the time when the law is in force. Surely it is logical that, if you are in a phase, you are in a period of unprecedented measures restricting the fundamental rights of people, then that few times a year, we are talking about every three months, if this law is to be extended by far-reaching measures, and if both Chambers ask for the agreement of both Chambers? Similarly, the First Chamber can assume the role it should have in Parliament, namely to determine whether those constitutional restrictions should still be in force. If you are seeking support in Parliament and in society, I think it would be wise to involve the whole parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u147	And yet I do not think that argument is strong, because that would mean that we should always double all the debates with the Second and the First Chambers. I do not know if that is really of added value. Moreover, the First Chamber is, of course, free to call the Cabinet to parliament every day of the week. Then we will appear there and answer for everything that is ahead of us at that time. But in advance, to fully mirror all powers between the Second and the First Chamber... Then we are going to have a real duplication of work. That's not what the cabinet's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u148	No, it is not about repeating all the debates and discussing all the measures, because that makes the Minister himself now. This amendment also regulates the extension of the law, the extension of the law which imposes far-reaching restrictions on people's freedom of movement. That's every three months now. What is wrong with asking the First Chamber once again in those three months: do you still think it wise that we continue with this law that restricts fundamental rights? It seems to me that if the virus is still in full swing, there will be no objections at all, but I can also imagine that the First Chamber will at some point say: we have approved the law once, but we also want to have some sort of test as to whether it is still a good idea in three months, six months, nine months, one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u149	But that is possible, because this law does not change the regular parliamentary powers that already exist. Again, every day of the year when the First Chamber orders a member of the Cabinet, we are of course very willing to answer for the things we do. So that doesn't change anything. It is now a question of whether you should grant additional powers with regard to an extension KB. We have opted for the House of Representatives, where the political primacy lies. In our opinion, this was also appropriate to the political relations. That is why I would really advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u150	I think that has changed enough. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u151	I tasted a certain dedain towards the Chambers when Mr Hijink asked why it cannot pass through the Chamber. Despite the reflection of the last two hours, I had some difficulty in going to Parliament to get that agreement. But I actually have a substantive question about the extension at the Lower House. This is also something of the Van Haga and Baudet amendments. It does not seem that Parliament can set up a blockade in this area. From my point of view, the cabinet is presenting it to Parliament, but it is not the case that the parliament can coordinate it. So how does the Minister imagine if Parliament doesn't want that extension? It's not like the Cabinet is asking for permission for renewal. Should Parliament then take care of it itself? If so, is that a desirable situation? Why does the cabinet not at least ask the House of Representatives? I would prefer to see it as proposed in the Heink amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u152	Perhaps first a reflection on Mr Markuszower's reflection. I do not want to give the impression that I have spoken with dedain about any political work in any Chamber. No way! I like being here and I'm here all the time. I like to answer for the things we do. I also think it will keep the cabinet sharp when the Chamber is critical. It is only right to continue to do so in the near future. This crisis is touching us all in a great way, and that means that the representatives of the people have to keep their cabinet sharp, in any capacity. Then there's your question. I would like to stress that the regular instrument that the Lower House has and that the Upper House is already very strong in relation to laws that, for example, should no longer apply. There is always a possibility of calling a cabinet for something per motion. At the time that motion is adopted, it is, let me say, not very career-long for cabinet members to ignore it. Own-initiative legislation is also possible. That too is a rather robust instrument available to Rooms. Own-initiative legislation can also be speeded up. So in a manner of speaking, the Chamber can withdraw a law like that from the table every day of the year. This temporary law applies anyway, and it is always allowed to the Chamber at all times. In short, it is not the case that a Chamber should be given powers in a particular law in order to be able to adopt that type of instrument. What is at issue here is how we are going to arrange for it to be done in any case; that is what this is really about. Then I say: do justice to the usual parliamentary relations, where the political primacy really lies in the Lower House, and then let us be careful to mirror everything, do everything twice, Second and First Chambers. That is my judgment, which I have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u153	Before you continue, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u154	I would also like to say a few words about this, because it is not just about the Second and the First Chambers. It is about the literal fact that now in this law it is simply a matter for the Royal Decree to agree that this law could simply go ahead and that the Chamber is only informed. Of course, there are all possibilities in this House of Representatives to change that, but why shouldn't we just change it in the law? That is the specific question before us. Why should we not say together here: every three months we want to be able to vote on an extension as a Lower House, and preferably as a Upper Chamber? I don't see that reason, because it's quite a law. So I actually think that we should be able to use our voting rights here with each other and that we should not only be informed or necessarily be able to make a change per motion. The right to vote is also a very essential element, and that can be regulated. That is what amendments are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u155	But still, look at the regular instruments the Chamber has. Every day of the year, the Chamber can meet, hold the cabinet to account and vote on what the Chamber thinks should be voted on. And that can also be the end of a temporary law every day of the year, et cetera. Only, what we're doing here is laying down the procedure in the law that has to be passed anyway. I think, looking at the intensity with which we are already debating, the intensity with which parliamentary control has already been organized, that it is not necessarily necessary to add this to the instruments that the Chamber already has. And by the way, an extension decision, following Van der Staaij's amendment, to which I think I have reacted a little too quickly because the tabling of that amendment in respect of item No. 26 had yet to take place... This amendment provides for a report from the Council of State once every three months, i.e. an opinion from the Council of State. If the amendment by Van der Staaij has been adopted, then the law requires us to give priority to a proposed KB once every three months, i.e. before we enter the KB, to the Chamber, accompanied by advice from the Council of State. Well, we have our biweekly debates. So, in that debate, the content of the intention to extend can simply be debated to your heart's content. And if a motion is proposed in that debate and a ruling is requested from the Chamber on renewal, and if there is a parliamentary group that opposes that extension and they ask the Chamber to give a ruling on it, then that motion is obviously leading the cabinet at that time. Does that require an additional procedure in this bill? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u156	We all know what the Minister is responding to. Those options exist, but you say: it is not really necessary to give the House of Representatives a vote on the very important, violent law that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u157	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mrs Van Esch has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u159	I think that is a very bad thing, because you say that there are all different methods. There are, but this method should be there as far as we are concerned. There is simply an opportunity for this law to be extended to extend those amendments so as to give the two Chambers the right to vote. I find it rather bizarre with such a large law and so much unrest that is still in society about it. Then we should meet here: just make sure that we have this democratic thing in order, and this is really an essential part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u160	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u161	It's okay. You learn from the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u162	By presenting it in this way, I do not think Mrs Van Esch is doing justice to the instruments that the Chamber already has. The Chamber has all the instruments to have a legislative proposal passed every day of the year or to withdraw a legislative proposal in force. She can give instructions to the cabinet by motion to which the cabinet must relate. In short, the Chamber already has these instruments. It is really customary to either simply store extensions of KBs or submit them to the Chamber with a pending procedure. There is no need for an additional procedure to be established in a legislative proposal, because the Chamber, simply by virtue of its own Rules of Procedure, already has that type of instrument. That's the point. The point is not that it is undesirable for the Chamber to take a decision on this, quite the contrary. By the way, even if the cabinet thinks so, it is up to the Chamber itself to decide whether or not it is. There is no need to organise an additional procedure in any legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u163	My final words on this. I stick with it: it may not be necessary, but this law requires it. That's the plea I want to keep here. By a lot of laws: logical, okay, you can understand. You have other tools to do it. That is a valid point. But with this particular law, which we have been discussing for months now, which is a great deal of social unrest, and where we are trying as much as possible to get democratic matters in order as possible, this last point is precisely that. On the contrary, amendments add additional democracy to the law that lies here. It's really, really, really, really a shame if we let ourselves walk past that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u164	Finally, this would also suggest that you do not already have that instrument. I do not think that would be wise, even from the Chamber's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u165	Yes, I'm sorry, but I'm sticking with it: that's absolutely not true. I'm not saying we don't have any instruments at all. I am not saying that we should not use all these instruments in other areas. But you are really getting past this, which is getting worse and worse about the issue of what kind of law is going on here and how much unrest this is causing. I'm really sorry about that. You say just do the normal instruments, because this is a normal law that we normally discuss here. But that is not the case. We're not in a normal situation, under normal circumstances. This law is really different from others at the moment, and I really think we should look at it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u166	Normally, the situation is by no means correct. This also shows the way in which we have organised the parliamentary treatment of the corona crisis: once every two weeks a voluminous progress letter and once every two weeks an intensive debate with three directors. We don't do that on any of the files. So let us not pretend that the Chamber has nothing to say about anything. The opposite is true. We'll discuss everything with the Chamber at any time of the day you order us. The Chamber already has all the instruments at its disposal to adjust the cabinet and, if necessary, to dispose of it. You have all the power you deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u167	So who was Mr Van der Staaij or Mr Hijink? Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u168	The Minister is now getting a bit crooked, but I think that this cabinet is getting what it deserves, namely mandates, amendments, amendments, amendments, which are also necessary because the cabinet itself, of course, has not taken parliamentary relations too seriously lately either. The Minister says that the Chamber has all the instruments it always has; it can table motions, and we come to the Chamber neatly if necessary. But behind this minister is Minister Ollongren, who systematically, for example when it comes to rental prices, has passed motions. So if a motion were to be voted on in the First Chamber in order not to extend this law, how can we be sure that it will be implemented, if it does not happen on other subjects? The Minister can thus say that there is a formal possibility for the First Chamber to stop this law if she so wishes, but that is not regulated by this law. Then they'll have to file motions and we'll just have to wait and see if the government is going to implement them. Of course, that's exactly where the crux is. We simply want it to be regulated by the law: formal consent, both chambers; so pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u169	You've already made that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u170	You have already said this once, and I think I had already responded to it once. I would really like to ask you to pay attention to the instruments that the Chamber has just put at its disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u171	But if we make use of the possibilities we have, for example when it comes to tabling motions, whether in this Chamber or in the Upper Chamber, the government must also respond to the statements made by a Chamber. The cabinet just doesn't have such a good track record on it, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u172	The Minister just said, in a minor way, that he might have reacted too quickly to the amendment on item No. 26. I can reassure him, because that is not the case. The amendment has been tabled. But he is right that there is still something to come, namely a technical adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u173	Look. That had already become me. That "but" had...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u174	Exactly. However, the assessment remains substantive, because the new version is still concerned that we want to hear every three months from the Advisory Section of the Council of State, prior to an extension decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u176	That's been cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u177	That has been corrected for a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u178	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u179	Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Just to be the guide: we are still in that first block on parliamentary involvement. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked: why are we talking about open standards? She said: then Parliament has little to say, for example, about the implementation of the safe distance. The answer to that is as follows. The delegation provisions shall specify as precisely as possible what measures may be taken. These are not open standards; on the contrary, it is a fairly precise expression of where action can be taken. In that sense, it really can be seen as a limitation of the space that is now contained in the Public Health Act. It's part of this law. It states that, in the context of this crisis, the government can take action on a number of issues. So that's just a frame-up. Furthermore, there is, of course, a need for flexibility. That virus is manoeuvrable, so we should be too. There is therefore a need for flexibility in order to act quickly in the other fundamental interest that you have to serve, namely the protection of public health. If measures are necessary, the detailed arrangements for such measures will mainly take place at the level of a ministerial arrangement. In addition, there is a background with a ratification decision, if the amendment is just adopted; my political feeling is that the amendment is going to reach a majority. But it does not apply to one point: the safe distance. For this an AMvB applies, because it actually gets a full legal treatment. Thus, it is possible for the Chamber and the Council of State to advise on this matter prior to the moment when that AMvB reaches the Chamber. Heard the RIVM, as it says in the law. That is a special provision, but it should be so now, so that is why. In doing so, the standards are not as open as Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question suggests. Mr. Chairman. In my view, then, I have dealt with the questions relating to parliamentary involvement and the amendments that fit in with it. Then I'll move on to the content of the law. Most of the questions have been asked about Mrs Van Brenk's amendment. Where in the first block the Buitenweg amendment c.s. The main point is now Mrs Van Brenn's amendment. central. There is also a wide-ranging signature for this. I'm just gonna get the piece number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u180	That is the amendment to item No. 38.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u181	The amendment in part No. 38. This is in line with the questions raised by several political groups. Mr Veldman has asked questions about this. He said it shouldn't be too easy to take generic measures again. Mr Groothuizen has also repeated this in his speech. Mrs Van Brenk has put that very well, I think. She was talking about the grief it's caused people. That's how I see it. I go on a lot of work visits in nursing homes. Anyone who recollects the memory of March remembers, of course, the fear that was present at the time. Of course everyone also remembers the great concern of people to see people, with whom they had already built a band for years, die quickly. But the worst, the worst, for all nursing homes is still the moment when visitors were no longer possible. I think that everyone at that time felt the need to do so, once again, with retroactive effect, understands the need for intervention. That's when we hit the 1,000 contaminated locations. Unfortunately, many of the infections came under the arms of people who came to visit. Nurses weren't up to that at the time. So we had to take a measure that would stop it. But we have also come to the conclusion in all our looks that we should never do that so generic again. That's what it feels like in all nursing homes. It's never allowed to be that generic again. That is why I would like to leave Mrs Van Brenk's amendment to the Chamber. I think that it is better expressed in this amendment than the cabinet put it in the original bill, because it has been added that access by at least one family member, one next of kin, must always remain possible. In this context, I refer to the questions put by Mr Veldman, the hand-out that has been made by numerous field parties in nursing care, by ActiZ, by Verenso and by many client organisations to arrange that visit properly. It actually prescribes a plan per location, but also a plan per client for how that visit can be organised. It also stipulates that if the level of contamination increases in a region, this may also lead to a different type of visitation scheme. It must be possible to limit visitors, because otherwise you would not do what is our constitutional duty, namely to promote health and protect vulnerable people. That is the purpose of our approach. It must therefore be possible to limit visits, but that is what is required in this hand-in-hand approach along the line of participation, along the lines of the participation of a client council and the participation of a nursing advisory board, the participatory bodies which are normally involved in this type of radical decision. On the question of whether generic measures should not be taken too easily, I would like to say that, in order to take back Mr van der Staaij's word, it is really the starting point for this visit. But customization can also mean a very reluctant handling of visits. It's possible. In an exceptional situation, as is stated in the Van Brenk amendment, it would even be possible to stop allowing visitors for a week, for example. That is possible, but only in a very exceptional situation, and rather not. That's how the nursing homes are in it. I'm gonna have to browse. How does the Minister ensure that the guidelines on visits to health care institutions are clearly communicated to visitors to the same health care institutions? That is as the hand-out dictates, namely a plan per location but also a plan per client. This means that you will sit around the table with the client and also with the family to explain: now it works like this, but if the rate of infection increases, we may be forced to restrict the visit. It is very important to bring family members along in a good way, because family members all have the memory of March and nobody wants it that way anymore. Mrs Van der Graaf asks how the hand-out relates to Mrs Van Brenk's amendment. I think that Mrs Van Brenn's amendment is a kind of legal arrangement, so you might see it as a result of the intention of the hand-out, where the legal right to always have one family member who may visit is a very nice addition, which is at least entirely in the spirit of the hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u182	Then I'm going to see Mr. Veldman. Or are you just chilling? Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u183	Thank you for the Minister's answer, but my question just went a little further. Drivers of health care institutions are, of course, bound by guidelines and manuals as they are now drawn up. It is good if the Minister points that out again to the directors: this one is there, so make use of it. But of course, it's also about residents and visitors knowing where that driver has to go, precisely because we saw in spring that there are situations where there are no more infections in a nursing home, in a region where at that time there was little going on, and in which a driver said: I keep the toko closed, because you never know. And that's what we don't want anymore. Then it is important that residents and also visitors, family, know what they can appeal to the driver. What route does that driver have to go to say he's closing the front door?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u184	I can't blame you for saying that. The good thing about this hand-out is that it was created by a very wide-ranging club, consisting of many representative organisations. I think this has enormous added value. That hand-out is not something of Verenso, or something of Actiz; all client representative organisations contributed to this hand-out. That is, I think, of great added value. At the same time, it must also be clear to clients and their representation where they can go when they feel that what is happening in the home is not in line with how they feel it should go. How then do they know what they can count on? That's what I really think is in those representative bodies: Actiz, Verenso, Alzheimer's Netherlands, Zorgthuisnl, the Netherlands Institute of Psychologists, LOC, V&VN. So it's a very broad representation. I think it is primarily up to these representative organisations to serve their supporters. The second is that, of course, there is always a role for inspection. Mr Hijink asked a question about this. Yes, the inspection also has a role to play here, for example through the national hotline. You can always go there with complaints. If there are many complaints at a location, the inspection will give rise to a visit to that location in the context of its risk-based monitoring. In addition, there is also a proactive role for inspection. Personal care is, of course, the material glasses with which the inspection looks at the care. In short, there really is a formal role of inspection. Handhelds are therefore guidance for the implementation practice. All of these organizations have their own supporters to serve and empower, a very terrible word to deliver what is meant in those hand-outs. And there is also a formal role for inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u185	I agree that it is very nice that a multitude of organisations are involved in this hand-out. I also agree that all these organisations may have a responsibility to take on board and inform their supporters, i.e. residents and visitors, about what the driver has to do. But I would like it if the Minister himself also promised that he would take the lead in ensuring that these organisations do so, precisely in order to fulfil that responsibility with each other, precisely in order to avoid what I also hear the Minister say about the fact that nursing homes are closed again when that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u186	I am happy to admit that, but not with the eagerness to take over the good work done by these organisations themselves. 'Cause it's really their hand-off. I think it's important that ownership be felt there as well. But if I can help in communication and your appeal is to do so, I would like to make a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u187	If the Minister is making a commitment, I would like to add something to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u188	Oh, oh, It's a dangerous mode. I'm gonna get back on my feet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u189	There are just some very good examples. This week there was a very clear example of a nursing home that has a separate department where people with corona can move freely and where the visit has to dress completely protected, rather than vice versa. It would be nice if such good examples were widely disseminated and if the Minister could take on a role in this. I understand that all these organisations have to do so, but if the Minister is also able to highlight these kinds of examples, then it will help organisations that are afraid and keep the toko closed to see opportunities and opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u190	Sure. I am going back to the mode of commitments, because I think this is a nice addition to what I had already promised to Mr Veldman. It is true that there are very beautiful and impressive examples of how institutions deal with this with a lot of creativity. Absolutely. And occasionally you also see examples of too much restraint. You'll see that too. Mr. Chairman. This was about nursing care. As part of the measures, Mr Van der Staaij asked about the funerals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u191	Before you continue, Mrs. Van der Graaf has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u192	I had asked a question about the health care institutions and nursing homes, and in particular about the carers. I had asked a very clear question about this. It can sometimes happen that people have multiple carers. Then people divide the tasks, because family care often demands so much. Do all these carers have access to the ones they care about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u193	I think your question was whether that could also be a non-family member, or whether that could also be the neighbour. The answer to that question is yes anyway. With regard to the restriction of the visit, Mrs Van Brenk's amendment requires that at least one caregiver should always be able to come to the nursing home as I read it. At least that needs to be settled. By the way, it may be that you say at some point: to reduce the introduction of the virus a little bit and also to make it easy for our people we are going to reduce the number of people who can come along. Of course, the people in the nursing home also have double services if the virus is very housed: that health check at the entrance, the supervision of visits and the supervision of visits. Of course, that's a possibility. That possibility is in the hand-out. This possibility is also left open in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u194	I would like to ask whether the Minister would like to take a very specific look at this for the second period. It's just a situation that's gonna happen. I hear what the Minister is saying, but precisely because I and my group are getting a lot of questions from carers about this, I would like to ask whether they will still have access, even if there are several carers. I would like to ask whether the Minister, with the Van Brenk amendment in his hand and in addition to the legislative proposal, would like to respond specifically to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u195	I can do the same in this term. Because that's how it works. The hand-out requires that you make a good visitation plan per location and that you have consultation with various participatory bodies working within the organisation, within the care institution. Then you create a customized visit plan for each resident, suitable within the visitor plan of the location. That's what all the organizations are doing right now. That's what all the health care institutions are doing right now. This also ensures that you arrive at a tailor-made arrangement, taking into account the client's own situation. I think that's a very sensible way of doing things. This does justice to the differences that are common, differences in home situation, differences in relatives, in carers involved in a resident of a nursing home. That's gonna stay. The Van Brenn amendment does not change that either. In fact, the Van Brenn amendment lays down the legal law that there must always be the situation that at least one family member, one caregiver, can be involved. There's no other way to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u196	You just said that, so I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u197	One more sentence, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u198	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u199	I want this clear. The space that restricts a care institution visit, of course, remains there. That room leaves the Van Brenn amendment too. He also leaves the hand-off. Why is that necessary? It must also be organized for a care institution and, if the level of infection increases, you must be able to actually limit the visit, never beyond at least one remaining family member and always tailor-made, because that is what is agreed upon. Then the group size at funerals. Mr. Van der Staaij rightly says that at the time it was very painful that a limit was set on the size of the group. You have actually asked whether it would not be something to specifically include an exception in the ministerial arrangement. I very much agree with you. Similarly, in the current package of measures, which currently applies, funerals are an exception to the maximum group size. We have done so consciously, because it is very hard not to be able to say goodbye to loved ones. In the current regulations and regulations we have therefore made that exception. If we were to overhang the current regulation in a ministerial measure and offer it to the Chamber, this would therefore be part of it. So I can very much agree with that suggestion. But when I looked into the past where outbreaks occurred, it wasn't uncommon at a funeral. This has been a little less lately, by the way. But a funeral is a moment when keeping your distance is virtually impossible. How can you keep that five feet away when there's such intense grief? You can see that at funerals the distance standard is often a little forgotten. That is very understandable, but it is particularly vulnerable in a high level of contamination. So I don't think we should want to regulate it generically and legally. But if we can make an exception to the size of the group in a ministerial arrangement, we will certainly do so, from the same point of view. Article 58c refers to necessity and proportionality, says Mr Van der Staaij. Experts' opinions on the usefulness of non-medical mouth caps differ. To what extent can you enforce the introduction of a mouth cap on the basis of this article? It will always apply: it is possible. On the basis of this article it might be possible. This is also about protective equipment. You can make rules on the basis of this article. But you will always have to do so with a basis of usefulness and necessity. You're definitely gonna have to do that. In the case of non-medical mouth caps, given the changing advice of experts, you will indeed have to crawl well behind the computer to give the foundation in a good way. But there's something else going on here. At the moment, we have opted for an urgent opinion. This is often said: "An urgent opinion, what exactly is that? A real measure is if you have to do something!" In that context, it is often put. I think we would be great help if we got off that discourse. If we set up our society in this way, we would be on our way to a society in which it is no longer pleasant to live. Just look at all the advice we've taken from the beginning. "Wash your hands." Well, we really don't have a boa standing next to every crane to see if the hands are washed enough. We have the advice of staying at home if you have any complaints. Yeah, that's uncheckable and unmaintainable. Does that mean you're allowed to pass the advice shoulder-picking? No, because then you put others in grave danger. In short, the urgent advice of RIVM and the urgent advice that the RIVM cabinet takes over and communicates with society is not an advice to ignore. This applies to all urgent opinions, including mouth caps. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen referred to Rule 58p. She's gonna go deep for a while. With regard to Rule 58p, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen says: "Is my reading that paragraph 2 provides for the possibility of derogations from persons from one household who are allowed to sit in one car? In what situation does the Minister wish to make use of this possibility? How does this work in the fight against the virus? Shouldn't the exception to the exception just come out?" That was your question. The answer is: the second paragraph of Article p does indeed allow the distance standard to apply to persons residing at the same address. This concerns, for example, the situation in which there is organised traffic for migrant workers. We saw that at the slaughterhouses. In spite of the fact that the employees live at the same address, it is often so necessary that they keep their distance when they are transported. Because if they don't do that in the car, you can see that the number of infections can increase rapidly. This has also been one of the recommendations of the Employment Migrant Protection Team. They also considered that these measures should be taken in order to improve the protection of migrant workers. But if such a measure is prepared, it will of course look at usefulness, necessity and proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u200	That is indeed a very good reason to limit that; I think that is very sensible. But isn't it a little too broad-based in this way? Is there no other way to keep the possibility open for these specific cases, but that it is not so broad-based for individuals from one household? The regulation is not going to be used for it; that is very clear to the Minister, but isn't there a way of incorporating that more specifically into the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u201	In fact, if we want to make use of this exception clause, and if we want to include it in the ministerial regulation, we will have to argue very well the extent to which it is proportionate. Then it is up to the Chamber, when we do that, to supervise it and say: couldn't that have been a little different? Don't you use it too much here? The application as you outline it is an application that is now on my retina, of: it could be. But you could also have other possibilities, where that is a logical application, especially with people living at one address, but who do not want them to infect each other. In the case of migrant workers, this is a rather clear example, but we have also seen that the degree of contagion in student homes can be very high. That's also where you could imagine doing that. So I wouldn't want to limit it any further, at least not in the legal sense. But the requirement of proportionality is, of course, right up. So we will always have to be able to argue it when we make a proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u202	Can I conclude from this that, if this power is used, it always comes back to the Chamber and that we can decide as a Chamber: in these cases it is proportional and in other cases it is not proportional?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u203	Always, because this only provides the legal framework: what should the measures be about, what subjects should they see and what areas of life they may relate to? Then it will always have to be included in an arrangement, which is put to the House and for which you are going to adopt a proposal for ratification, is my expectation, at the time of the vote. So it's always presented how we deal with it. Then Mr Groothuizen asks: "We understand from the answers that students and people in residential groups can also be seen as people with the same address, for example if they share the same amenities, but formally have a different home number. Please confirm." I can confirm that; indeed it is. Mr Van Dam asks the following. House law is explicitly excluded from the functioning of this law, but we also see that a lot of contamination occurs in the home situation. So how do we deal with that? At the time, that was indeed a reason to take up that house law. At the same time, we have said that maintaining that behind the front door is obviously not going to happen, because you cannot just look behind the front door. You'll probably only do that if there's an excess, as it's called in enforcement terms. And with an excess, so if there's a lot of nuisance, huge loud music, a huge party that the neighbors are very affected by, you can maintain on that. When there is an excess, you can often maintain it on the basis of the APV. So that enforcement can take place in that case. Furthermore, I also think that we should make a little more intelligent agreements than just enforcement and, in particular, make agreements with, in this case, student homes themselves. We have seen that the infections were particularly severe at student homes. For example, there was an initiative by the mayor of Delft to sit down with student associations and ask: what could you do to improve compliance in these houses? That has led to actions I believe in more than a boa in front of the door, or a boa behind the door. So I think that requires us to think of more intelligent solutions to that. Then there is Mr Veldman's question. The law regulates the safe distance standard and a number of exceptions to it. Are rescue brigades included in those exceptions? The answer is yes. The letter of amendment adds to the legal exceptions: the category of persons who provide first aid to a life or health threatening situation. This includes persons providing emergency assistance from their mission to the rescue brigade. Mr Hijink asks how we should take this bill as regards the criminality of opening a wine in the park. Depending on the APV, the park in which you are exactly located, and even if you want to differ in this or that municipality, the moment of the year may already be subject to an alcohol ban under the APV or not. So that's actually just part of the local decision-making process. Why has this been added to the list now? Because also here, of course, alcohol affects people's behavior. Constraints on the use of alcohol can therefore actually help to control the behavior, let me put it this way. That is why that foundation has been created. De facto, for reasons of public order in particular, there is already quite a lot possible, just on the basis of the local regulation. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks why there is a piece of age discrimination in the law; see Article 58e (1) (a). What does it take and how far does it go? And this goes against the Constitution, doesn't it? No, there's no discrimination in the law. There is logic in the law: you could take measures that, for example, do not apply to children of primary school age. They are now, of course, also excluded from many measures. I also think that makes a lot of sense. If you see that children in primary school age do not really play an important role in the spread, that children in that age group actually hardly get sick............................................................................................................................................ So that's why this article is there as it says. If your fear is that this might lead us to move towards a kind of two-stream society, a bit like Mr Van Haga advocated, then of course we, as a cabinet, have said quite clearly earlier that we are not going to go there, that we do not want to go there and that we do not want to, because that is as far away from how you really want to be a society as a society. You can't ask the elderly to sit behind the geraniums for the next six months, so we can have a good time. Moreover, that would not make any sense, because if you add up the number of vulnerable people who are really at great risk of serious illness, you might be looking at 3 million, 4 million, 5 million people, given the indicators that give rise to them becoming a vulnerable group. And that is separate from the fact that you simply cannot organize such a society and should not want to organize it. Then there is Mr Krol's question. He would like to have a clear-cut ruling on the possibility of including a vaccination obligation in the law in the future. Let me say quite clearly once again what I have said many times before. I am not in favour of a vaccination obligation, because I think that undermines the support for vaccination very much. And we really need the support before vaccination. Nor am I in favour of a vaccination obligation because I do not believe that it would be feasible. You can't vaccinate people who don't want to be vaccinated. I am against vaccination for those reasons and many other reasons. There is no law that provides or could provide any basis for this. There will be no initiative from the cabinet to provide that basis. I think we are also very much helping each other by never calling that a suggestion again, because the care and fear in society are already great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u204	Very briefly, Mrs. Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u205	I will come back to my question about age discrimination. I understand the Minister's explanation very well, but is it not possible to include in the explanatory statement an additional passage on exactly what the Minister says, so that it is clear that it should not apply in any way? Because I think this is well-written. I also understand the thought behind it now, but isn't it possible to record somewhere that it's being shared a little more widely?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u206	The good news is that the oral hearing of the law is also part of the legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u207	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u208	So if one reads back what we have exchanged about how we understand this article, then there can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u209	I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answer on vaccination. I have one supplementary question. Can it not also happen in the future that people who have not been vaccinated can be refused on certain occasions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u210	No, certainly not when you put it so generally. One comment on that. You may be in a certain situation at some point where the virus is not yet gone and we are still in the middle of the vaccination, for example halfway. We have then vaccinated 20%, 30%, 40% of the people and the number of measures you need to take in society can therefore be reduced. I'm thinking out loud right now. It's totally hypothetical, but I'm gonna paint it anyway. At that time, a healthcare institution can say: if you want to be able to continue your work with us in the hospital or in the nursing home, then we like it when in the department where the most vulnerable people come, the people who work there are vaccinated. You can say that as a care institution. But it can never take the form of a vaccination obligation or a vaccination condition to work at all at an institution. That's not how it works. There is no basis for this and there is no basis for it, and there is no basis for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u211	But I hear the Minister now saying that in some cases people will be asked to vaccinate. We now see that more and more crew members have been tested positively in naval ships. These are all examples where you can imagine that you can only board, that you can only work in that department in the hospital if you have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u212	No, because there is no basis for that. And there isn't going to be a basis. So that's gonna go wrong before the judge pretty soon. That's not possible. If you are considering something like this as an employer, then you will have to argue very well, from the point of view of protecting vulnerable people, that you make the choice as you make it. I can only imagine it in a situation of, like I said, a nursing home where you're about halfway through your vaccination strategy and approach. At that point you could say: we actually expect the people who work with our most vulnerable people to be vaccinated. But never in the form of a duty and always very well motivated from the point of view of protecting vulnerable people as best as possible. I do not wish to comment on this point: well, there is something about a vaccination obligation that is possible. No, it's not possible. There is no compulsory vaccination and it is not going to apply; there is no basis for it. But I understand that care workers want to be protective of their hospitals or nursing homes. I can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u213	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u214	I think I have had the best possible experience of the measures. I see one more question, from Mr Hijink: how does the Minister prevent exemptions from leading to splits and arbitrariness? We've just had that little debate. I think that Mr Ollongren will be more specific about this. We will always have to incorporate into the ministerial regulation a good framework on which exceptions can and cannot go. I'm reflecting on last week. There was an exception to the cultural institutions requested by the presidents of the security regions. But as soon as they are used, you immediately get the sport and the churches on the phone, asking: hey, what's the deal, why is that for Carré and not for us? Customization can help to support it, but it can also undermine its acceptance if it is applied too thinly or too unevenly. That's a really thin line. That's what makes our business so fun. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions that relate to the measures that are possible under this law. I have really answered most of the questions. I am going to ask a number of questions, first questions about the BES and then some other questions. A number of questions about the BES have been asked by the PvdA and the Christian Union. How to operate on Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba? Did the cabinet consult with the islands? How to deal with that? Look, the safety net clause that was there is now actually because of the Buitenweg amendment c.s. are due to expire. We have said almost everything about that, except for one point, which is what that means for the BES islands. The government has, of course, involved public bodies in the drafting of the law from the outset. They have also watched with the consultation version of the law. In the case of the Caribbean Netherlands, the same system will eventually have to apply to the ministerial regime. Because conditions in the Caribbean Netherlands may vary considerably, the cabinet intends to make a separate ministerial arrangement for each public body, with the authorities taking the views of the island councils into account in the decision-making process. As far as the content of the measures is concerned, therefore, it will simply be possible to provide tailor-made solutions. However, with regard to the urgency that may be necessary there, the safety net provision was necessary. If the amendment to item No. 30 is accepted, of course you've lost the safety net clause. In the opinion of the Island Councils, there is insufficient flexibility in order to be able to take rapid action. If the amendment is adopted, let us take that as a starting point. The emergency issue for the islands must, I think, be resolved. I understood from your speech and from Mrs Kuik's speech that you might feel the same way, so I will leave it to you or you to amend it or expect us to come forward with a letter of amendment to the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u215	This point came up in a conversation we had with the BES islands. It is now the case that Statia and Saba have indicated that they would like that exception. On Bonaire, however, that conversation still has to take place on the island council, as it should be and not in the back rooms. I'd like to wait and see. On the basis of the majority decision, I would appreciate it if the cabinet would then take the initiative for a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u216	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u217	If the House does not agree, a counter-amendment can always be tabled. But I think that's the royal way in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u218	I think that's totally fine. We'd like to go along with that proposal. Then we have a number of other questions to deal with. I shall begin with Mrs Van Esch's. It cited Article 62 of the Batavian State Law of 1789. We can't just leave that out. That's very nice indeed. I took up the article for a while: "It extends, likewise, through beneficial laws, its concern to everything that can generally promote the health of the residents, with removal, so much mayhem, of all obstacles." The current Constitution states: "The public authorities are taking measures to promote public health." I think we've lost something in time from the beauty of that language. By the way, I would like to mention another article in the same Batavian State regulation, and that is Article 27, which lays down the right to "hunt, bird and fish" on its own territory. Yeah, that's how it was at the time, of course. More seriously: the question of the Party for Animals was of course what we could actually do in the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u219	I think Mr Van der Staaij should say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u220	Mr De Jonge disappoints me, because if I remember correctly, there is a much better Article 8 of the same state regulation. I don't know if you have it in front of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u221	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u222	That is what I think is saying: "The respectful recognition of an All-governing Supreme Being strengthens the ties of society and continues to recommend to everyone Citizen at the most expensive." Isn't that a good one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u223	That's great. I am counting on Mr Van der Staaij to take these words in an amendment. Then we'll be able to vote on it with each other. Thank you for this little upliftment to the people, just in between on Thursday morning. Back to Mrs Van Esch's question. We've talked about this before. We have often had a discussion about the need for the cabinet to take measures at all in the context of public health. We talked today and yesterday about measures that also restrict people's rights. In general terms, we must always bear in mind that we do so in the context of that other fundamental right, namely the right to go through life in a healthy way. This also includes the obligation for the public authorities to take measures to promote public health, as provided for in Article 22 (1) of the Treaty. In short, it's our expensive duty. Fundamental rights are, of course, secondary. You can never absolute one right over another. That's what this whole law is about. Furthermore, Mr Blokhuis is very much in the process of taking up the task of promoting public health, where prevention is concerned, very seriously. We have a National Prevention Agreement. With over 70 parties, agreements have been made on measures and ambitions to promote a healthy lifestyle. The fight against overweight, against smoking, against problematic alcohol consumption is complex and extensive, but we have involved many measures and parties in this fight. We will continue to do so, without prejudice to this bill and without prejudice to the corona crisis that we are in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u224	However, I think that you will ignore the fact that we see in the corona crisis that people who have an unhealthy lifestyle are more susceptible to this virus. Then it is precisely now important to take additional measures and, for example, to take seriously the call of those 1,600 scientists, and therefore to take additional measures to prevent more people from becoming ill in this crisis that we are now in and that we are not yet aware of. Those 1,600 scientists have also said that it is simply not enough now. We do too little about prevention. We don't have enough budget for it. It's too little right now. It is precisely now that the mandate to do so is explicit. Then I think that what we have agreed so far is really too little. I think we know about each other, but I'm gonna keep making that call. I really don't think it's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u225	Indeed, we do not have this debate for the very first time; that is true. For example, you always come up with the proposal to introduce a sugar tax. I do not exclude that we are going to do so at any time, but I also think that you would find it strange if the cabinet were to propose a sugar tax in the middle of the corona crisis. Of course, no one believes that this sugar tax is going to help us get through that crisis right now. You're not saying that, either. You say that more needs to be done in the context of prevention, and that is, of course, true. Anyway. A third of the VWS budget, which means that it is not a question of money, so it is also a third of the commitment of our healthcare providers, is about lifestyle-related diseases. So the commitment to prevention almost always pays off. That's a really good idea anyway. That is to the near future, in which the demand for care will increase enormously, in any case a route that we must follow. That's why Paul Blokhuis is working very intensively on this theme. It is one of the most important issues in his portfolio, because prevention is going to help us, especially towards the future. We don't disagree on that. The question is whether one of these measures, which are always proposed, is going to help us in the crisis at the moment. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u226	That's right, I'm not saying that now. But it could be and-and. We're in a crisis for six months now. I understand that in the beginning, in March and April, you still don't know exactly where we're going. We're six months away now. We have been calling for action on prevention since May. We are not yet seeing any progress on corona and prevention. He's not here yet. No other prevention agreement has been concluded. No measures have been proposed other than those we already know. I think you are doing something very good to the people if you are going to stand in front of that sugar tax and look at additional prevention measures. Because we also want to prevent more people from getting sick from corona in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u227	That's true. Of course you do. But it is not the case that the commitment to prevention, which already applies, would suddenly no longer be important. Combating obesity, for example, is very important. We know that people who are overweight are more affected by the disease, are at greater risk of a severe course of the disease. So fighting overweight is a good idea anyway. That was also part of the Prevention Agreement. This is being worked on with constant loyalty by both colleague Blokhuis and all the field parties with which he has made arrangements. My only objection would be to add a sugar tax to that now. Then I think we have a bit too much expectations of what such a measure could do in the short term. In any case, we must continue the debate on the sugar tax. I'm not saying I'm always gonna be against it or anything. That's not the point. What matters is whether we do the right things in terms of prevention. I believe that we are working on the good things when it comes to prevention and that they remain important, especially at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u228	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u229	We are not only here for the short term but also for the long term. We can mention the sugar tax, but also the VAT reduction for fruit and vegetables, for example. We can simply reverse a VAT reduction that has started in recent years. That is not complicated at all, and that has an immediate effect. As far as sugar tax is concerned, I call the 1,600 scientists and civil society organisations; there are so many calls from society to deal with it precisely in this corona crisis. I find it really too short to say: we are now dealing with short-term issues. No, it is up to us, to the House of Representatives but also to the government to really consider that longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u230	I'll share that. That is precisely the background to the Prevention Agreement, which Blokhuis is working on. So that's what I'm sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u231	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u232	Then another evergreen in every debate about corona: the minks. Mrs Van Esch says that too little attention has been paid to the spread of animals. I honestly don't think that's true. If you look at how intensive we have been working on this from LNV and VWS and how intensive the cooperation is about measures that concern mink, then I don't think you could say this. Besides, the minks weren't just looked at. Each signal of a possible animal-human contamination has been studied in detail and exuberantly. We work very intensively together on the zoonosis structure. Another question from Mrs Van Esch was whether the VWS Minister has the power of perseverance. We don't really know that word legally, but we do work together in the zoonosis structure. It is precisely in such a case that it is not the interests of livestock farming or commercial interests that are at stake, but the interests of public health in the case of zoonoses that the decisive factor is always the interests of public health. So I sincerely believe that we are working very intensively on this and that this has also led to all kinds of measures that we have often discussed around the minks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u233	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Van Esch, but I would like to know if there are any further questions from Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u234	There is another amendment on mink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u235	You'll do that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u236	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u237	I want to make one more thing right. It is not us who say that too little research has been done on animals. It is a virologist who is part of the OMT who has indicated it. So it's not the Party for Animals that says that here. So I'd like to make that right for a while. It's just a scientist reporting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u238	If that scientist is still in the OMT, he must come up with an opinion, because it is the role of the OMT to advise the cabinet. So we look forward to the advice. Then let's go to the mink farms and the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u239	That is the amendment to item No. 34. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u240	Yes, the amendment to item No. 34. What the government is doing anyway is to counteract the current infections and the concerns of the OMTS as regards permanent reservoir formation with the measures we are taking. In addition to that, we come up with a bill to stop the keeping of mink. That actually goes beyond the imposition of a breeding ban and beyond this amendment. The cabinet intends to submit this bill to your Chamber at the beginning of November. Moreover, a breeding ban, as proposed in this amendment, will significantly restrict ownership. And that, of course, is what this is about; you must always look carefully at the legitimacy of the measures you are taking. Can you take measures to promote public health? Yes, in fact, that's our job, and that's what we're constitutionally obliged to do. Does that just allow you to restrict the right of ownership? No, because the need to do so will always have to be well substantiated. You know all the measures we take around mink. We rarely agree on that. That may be said, but you also understand that we will not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u241	Here again, there is probably another misconception, because the amendment is not specifically about mink. The amendment concerns all possible animals which may be susceptible to coronavirus. That's definitely something else. What strikes me is that, in a previous interruption, you just mentioned it: you always have the opportunity as a Lower House to file a motion, and we're just going to carry it out. But I just have two motions in front of me. They've all just been accepted, and you should be doing that, shouldn't you? The motion for a resolution of 10 June simply states that "the government is asking for an indication to prohibit the professional breeding of animals that are detectable for the coronavirus and can form a reservoir." It is now stated that there are possibilities that they are not only mink but also other animals, so in fact this amendment does not say anything more than what this motion is already telling you to do. The amendment does nothing more than that. It is literally expressing the motion that has already been adopted. So I think we're really helping you with this. We are just making the law for you, because you say yes, that amendment on the breeding of mink is coming. I'm just literally helping you, you know. This is the adopted motion. Really, it's pure help!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u242	What do you have to say to that, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u243	If it is so tempting, Mr President, it is very difficult to be able to withstand that. But back to the motion, because of course we have looked at all the signs that there would be animal-human contamination, which is actually the risk here, which is actually the danger here. For example, we looked at rabbits, we looked at the cats, the farm cats that were on those mink farms. We've been looking at that dog's signal. We've been looking at everything. I think that's our job, too. That was also the call in the motion. So it's not like we just focused on the minks. It is true that there where it is about comprehension for that virus the minks are number one. And that is why there is a lot of focus on that. In addition, there is of course something special about the minks, namely that the mink farms would stop at all. And there is also a whole package of measures that we are already working with about the mink. A generic breeding ban, where you cannot properly justify what is in the interest of public health...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u244	And now for the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u245	... actually goes a lot further. So the amendment, no matter how tempting Mrs Van Esch offers it and presents it to the cabinet, I really continue to dissuade it, because that amendment really goes beyond that. And the bill on keeping mink stops is coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u246	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u247	So it doesn't go any further, because another motion adopted is simply: "the government calls on the Ministry of Health to continue to give the Ministry of Social Affairs power to prevent and combat infectious animal diseases that pose a threat to public health." So that means the minister of VWS is in the lead here. It is also a question of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u248	That's the one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u249	Two days ago, we read an article in the Volkskrant which states that cows may also be contagious. Marion Koopmans of the OMT says: we must realize that there is a great chance that this virus will continue to form a reservoir in animals, not just in minks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u250	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u251	Then we say, and really, the amendment does not go so far as to go alone: make sure that you regulate it in this law that when you see that it goes wrong, you can intervene as the Minister of VWS. We have seen in the past that intervention by a minister of LNV simply takes far too long to put public health first. I can't mention Q fever, fine, but it's just been proven in history that this kind of thing is in the VWS Department. You already have that perseverance. And this is just really necessary to give the VWS minister the opportunity to actually intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u252	True, but the current Public Health Act and also the Animal Health and Welfare Act already provide powers to intervene if necessary. That is why this provision would simply not be necessary. It is true that if you put down a generic breeding ban for all comprehensible animals, that does indeed affect the right of ownership. You'd have to have a good foundation for that. That good justification can indeed come from the OMT-Z. That can happen the moment you see that animals are containable, the moment you see that there is reservoir formation. By the way, if you look at the chance that you are currently infected by a mink in relation to the chance that you are just infected by the neighbor at the present rate of infection, I would think that the chance that you are infected by the neighbor is now a bit bigger than that of the mink. But back to this proposal: this goes farther than is currently the case in the law. When it comes to taking the necessary measures, given the fact that animals are contained and are contagious on humans, these measures can already be taken under the Wpg as well as under the Health and Welfare Act for Animals. In short, the amendment is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u253	Yes. Mrs van Esch, you are, of course, free to put the amendment to the vote. Finishing; then we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u254	Rounding up. I stand by it: this is no more than the execution of the two motions that have already been adopted in this Chamber. You say the possibilities are there; I can already perform. But the proposal to close the mink breeding is not even there yet. Almost every day there are infections. It is indeed a fact that there is a risk of reservoir formation there. 75% of the people who have come into contact with these mink also get corona. So the risk is much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u255	I think you really made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u256	Yeah, I'm gonna finish, of course. I get it. But I stand by it: I think it is a really missed opportunity for the VWS Minister to reject this amendment, as it really only helps to put public health first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u257	Then I'll ask the Minister to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u258	I am afraid that we are not going to get very much closer to each other. It is, of course, a bit disappointing to have to make that observation, but sometimes it happens in life. I have a few more questions to answer. That's what I'll try to do. The first is Mr Van Haga's question on how to defend the one-and-a-half meter rule, while the WHO says 1 meter. We are putting 50% on top of that, says Mr Van Haga. In general, contact with a larger amount of virus increases the risk of infection. Generally speaking, the closer you get to someone, the more likely you are to transfer that virus. Generally speaking, the longer you're around someone, the more likely you are to transfer the virus. But it's all about the statistical opportunity. What the WHO has done is to set the minimum standard. That minimum standard is at least 1 meter. But what we have done is to adopt the standard that is actually very common in hospital care. That is 1.5 meters; keep between 1 and 2 meters away, to protect each other and to prevent transmission. We know that, as we call it in those circles, "the ballistic curve" of a drip infection, of the drops that eventually transmit the infection, is statistically the greatest chance of falling down within 1.5 meters. So if you keep a distance of 1.5 meters from each other, that probability is considerably less. So we don't do that to bully people, we do that to protect people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u259	Do you have any further questions from Mr Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u260	Well, I'm not ruling that out. Sure. The quick tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u261	That's good. Then you'll have the floor, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u262	This question is about the PCR test. That's one of our two lovers. We try to pay attention to it in every debate. So it would be a shame to skip that today. Also with the introduction of the rapid tests, the PCR test of course remains the golden standard. But also with a slightly lower reliability, the rapid test can have a great added value compared to the whole of the test landscape. Indeed, there are a number of settings that are conceivable in which 100% reliability is not necessary and also 99% reliability is not necessary to have a meaningful outcome, especially if the decline in that test is much faster and if you can also lighten the entire logistics in the test streets of the GGD by taking a lot of these quick tests. That is why we believe very much in the added value of rapid testing and do everything we can to get these things out of the ground as quickly as possible. At the moment, where they have been clinically validated and therefore the reliability has been found sufficient to get started at all with those quick tests, we are buying as much of those things as possible and at the same time testing in which setting and with which application you can use that test in a responsible way. A number of research groups are currently working on this. I hope that will lead to an opinion from the OMT which will come as soon as possible, and then we will proceed to the decision as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u263	Let's start with those five feet. I think we can handle that very quickly. The World Health Organization advises 1 meter. I asked Van Dissel that question at the time. He said: yes, it's a bit arbitrary; we could have chosen 2 meters. You have a whole story about ballistic curves, fine. My problem is that because of the 50% extra we choose, there is also collateral damage, very large economic collateral damage. I wonder, I hope you have done so, whether you have weighed that against each other and whether you are reconsidering that in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u264	I don't think that the latter is very likely, because it also creates a lot of uncertainty. But I understand Mr Van Haga's plea. It is justified. You ask for medical advice and that advice is: 1.5 meters is really a safe distance. That doesn't mean that you can't prevent a large proportion of the infections at a distance of 1 meter. At least that means 1.5 meters away is safer. Mr Van Haga says'safer', I'm sure, but 2.5 metres is even safer. But of course, you also want to keep something alive from a society and an economy. I understand that, too. That's the weighting we made. We have come to the conclusion, as you know, that we should follow that 1.5 metres. Something similar plays with the ten or fourteen days quarantine. It was always 14 days of quarantine. That was also the WHO's opinion. The Netherlands has been quarantined as one of the first days. What was the trade-off? Fourteen days of quarantine was very difficult for some people to sustain. This could lead to lower compliance. Shorter is better to hold on. You have to weigh that against the statistical probability that you miss part of the transfer if you go from fourteen to ten days. That trade-off has resulted in ten days. There are even countries that say, "You have to do it even shorter. We know that we miss a few percent of the infections, but this will at least increase compliance." We're choosing ten days right now. So it is true that you can make that weighting time and time again. It's not very likely that we're going to do that with regard to the 1.5 meters. But you have that weight to make from a health perspective. Of course, you also look at the impact on society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u265	Of course. I am pleased that the Minister is constantly making that assessment, but that 1.5 metres is likely to lead to a 50% bankruptcy of the catering industry. Can you imagine a moment when you say: well, the virus has been reduced so far in society that we can go back to the advice of the World Health Organisation, namely that 1 metre? Because that would give an enormous amount to the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u266	But in the right order of things. You'll start from the health point of view. You don't ask the OMT his economic view of possible bankruptcies in the hospitality industry; you ask the OMT: what is a safe distance? That's what we want to know about the OMT. Then you have to come from a good house if you want to say: the OMT says 1.5 meters, but we find that difficult to handle, so we make it less. In those 14 days to 10 days................................................................................................................................................................................ I think we should be clean in the roles. The OMT must advise us from a medical point of view. If you want to get rid of that, if you want to finish down because of the way it's manageable in society or the economy, you have to come from a good house. You should not unintentionally want to run a major health risk, no matter how sad all those bankruptcies that you may see in the catering and other sectors are. Indeed, society is not fully equipped at 1.5 meters. That is extremely complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u267	That's obvious. The health perspective is, of course, one, but I hope you will always consider that other forms of damage will also occur. I am talking not only about economic damage, but also about other damage. Anyway, let's close this point, because that's where we get it... Well, I think we're in agreement for the first time. Then the PCR test. I am very happy that a game changer is coming up now, namely the antigen test, the quick test, because it is going to show live virus in a very short time and for relatively little money. So that's good. But the PCR test is still seen by the minister as the golden standard, while we know that the PCR test also shows old pieces of viral RNA. Does the Minister agree with me that the question I have asked is that, as more people have had corona, the PCR test has now actually become an indicator of group immunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u268	No, those are the serological tests, the blood tests. They do, not the PCR tests. The PCR tests are more sensitive, even highly sensitive, even......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's another thing than whether he's contagious at the time of the withdrawal or the rash. Because we have the test policy that you get tested for complaints, the assumption is that if you have a positive test result, you are contagious. That's an assumption you're allowed to make in most cases. It's true all over the world. We can have this debate every time, but let's not pretend the rest of the world is crazy. All over the world, the PCR test is the golden standard and it stays that way. The less sensitive tests and the less specific tests are the quick tests, the antigen tests, but also the other rapid tests are often slightly less specific and slightly less reliable than the regular PCR tests, but are indeed of great added value in a number of settings. You can test a lot more people, you have a lot faster the result and you can lighten the whole test system of the GGD, which will increase the flow rates there. In short, I very much believe in using rapid tests. We're gonna do that as fast as we can, but we're gonna do it in a good way. We are well advised how and it will always remain in addition to the PCR tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u269	At least we agree that those PCR tests do not show contamination. So we can let go of that golden standard a little bit. And then I'd like to ask, but that's really the last time you're gonna ask: if it's true that people can have viral RNA fragments in their nose for six months, and then you still have a PCR test to show that someone's test positive if that piece of shit is there, then you can't deny that, as more people have had corona in the last six months, there are more positive tests? And that, because it is not contamination, we show that more people in the Netherlands have had corona and not that they are now infected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u270	Do you know what I find so strange about the debate we have repeatedly about that PCR test? All scientists around the world say: "That PCR test is really by far number 1, with head and shoulders; this is what you should want," with all the nuances that scientists themselves always give, even when it comes to what you can read from a positive test result and what you can derive from a negative test result. They're not complicated about that at all. What I find strange about this way of discussing is that you're actually politicizing everything. There is no political view on the reliability of the PCR test. There is a scientific view on the reliability of the PCR test. The scientific consensus, really all over the world, is that the PCR test is a good one. He's good for what we're using him for right now. In short, we should not want to question them. In addition, it is of course true that in terms of screening you can also get started with quick tests. And that's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u271	We have spoken out loud about the tests and there is also a debate on testing. I'm sure it'll be back next week. Can you come back to the law we're talking about today? In that context, you have asked questions. I hope it's changed enough now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u272	I think so, too. I'm not trying to politicize it at all. One final comment. There are several scientists who say different things about this. It's a bit of a fallacy: when everyone says something, it's true. I distance myself from that, and I listen to all the scientists. There are also scientists who say that this is exactly not the test to show that humans are infected. You just confirmed that yourself. But I won't take any further of your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u273	No, but I think you made your point. I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u274	About all things there are always scientists who find other things about it. That is the work of science.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u275	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u276	What we are dealing with is the scientific consensus. I think I've had quite a bit. Then there's the WOB requests. There should be no misunderstanding about that. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked if I could give an update on how things stand. 112 WOB requests have now been received. Given the large amount of information requested in the WOB requests, information specialists have used search and find software to automatically search for that information. One: because it is such an incredibly large mountain of information. Two: because the people who have this information on their computer are exactly the people we want to put out for a while. Our department has been in crisis for more than six months and it will remain so for a while. So I don't want to keep the people in the department off the job, but at the same time I want to meet what can just be expected of us in the context of the WOB. In the meantime, more than 800,000 documents on corona have been collected within the core department. Filtering that information just takes a lot of time. That time is necessary before those documents can be examined by the WOB, as a substantial part of those documents occurs several times or contains information that has not been requested. As of June, several lawyers are exempted to assess whether the requested information can be disclosed on the basis of the WOB. This enormous task has led my ministry to have ten additional lawyers recruited by October. The first documents found through this special search are expected to be made public in November. Fifteen WOB requests have now been decided. These are requests that look at very specific information that is relatively easy to access, or relate to information that is not present or that is already public. In short, we are working very hard on it, but it is a life-size job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u277	Do you have any further questions from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u278	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u279	Very briefly, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u280	Thank you to the Minister for this explanation. I think the Minister also recognizes the importance of keeping the press in a position to check all matters relating to corona and how everything went exactly. How's the communication with the press on this? I hear noises that large WOB requests from large media have not yet been decided and yet there is a fear that they will go to court to get those WOB documents. How's the communication on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u281	The update as I now give it to you is also shared with the patriotic press from time to time, because it is necessary to explain how the VWS ministry deals with these WOB requests. There's no intention of holding anything back. One doesn't have to have that illusion. Really everything, even before it reaches my table, sometimes I read back in the newspaper. So there really remains nothing decided or secret, or anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u282	No, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u283	...so there's no misunderstanding. However, we must do so as far as possible and as thoroughly as possible. The absurd amount of documents published in recent times means that you really need to do this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u284	Well, very last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u285	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. When does the Minister think that the delay has been eliminated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u286	I'm afraid to say that. A decision has already been taken on 15 out of a total of 112 WOB requests. We deal with the requests on a stage-by-stage basis. With the journal is communicated about the way we do it. In the meantime, there is such an incredible club of people that I do not know how we could speed up that process even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u287	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u288	I shall now turn to the last question, and I shall return to the recapitulation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u289	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u290	The last question is from Mrs Van Brenn. She actually notes that the pandemic is over. I thought for a moment: let us end with hope, the World Health Organisation could have said that. The World Health Organisation declared on 11 March that there was a pandemic, so it could now say that the pandemic is over. It seems wonderful to me to be present at the meeting where this is being said. However, as the Netherlands, we now decide to what extent there is still such a threat that it is justified for the temporary legislative proposal to enter into force. Do you believe that the cabinet will be the first to withdraw the bill if it is no longer necessary and say: fortunately, we are now at the stage where we have the greatest threat behind us; we no longer need these measures; we are sufficiently protected. Let us hope that we can say that as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u291	At the very beginning of the debate, the Minister said: let us hope that we have a vaccine soon, but then we do not know whether it will end. That's my question, too. If we have a vaccine, it's gonna have to be lifted. We are also lagging behind in regular care. I think this is a rather tricky point. When are we gonna know when it's over and we're not gonna do this kind of one-and-a-half meter thing anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u292	The answer to this question is surrounded by many uncertainties. To the current state of mind, my answer is that a vaccine is really our best asset towards the end of this pandemic. Some say it could also be a treatment. If there is no vaccine, it must be a treatment. But if you really want to prevent people from getting sick, a vaccine actually offers us the protection we need. It is said that we do not know at all about the current vaccines or that they are going to provide us with adequate protection. That's right, but that's why there are so many vaccines in the trials right now. This will enable us to find out what is actually the protective value of the vaccines and for which type of target group the vaccines provide adequate protection. I've asked the Health Council to advise us on the vaccination strategy. How's it gonna go? We work together within Europe. At the moment we are negotiating a vaccine portfolio, where the most promising vaccines are purchased in advance. They receive an investment in advance from us, to ensure that our vaccine portfolio is well filled. We're betting on all the horses we think could win the race at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u293	But this aspect also comes back extensively in the Corona debates. I still want to try to stay within the subject we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u294	I just came to a very hopeful end to my speech. It would be a shame to miss all that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u295	I also see Mrs Van der Graaf, but perhaps you could finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u296	I will not let the hopeful end wait any longer, because I agree with you that I also built up the tension very much. From the first months of 2021, I expect us to get our first vaccines delivered in deliveries that will never be enough to vaccinate the entire population. That is why we ask the Health Council to advise us in November on the order of the vaccination strategy, as we will have to apply it. In the meantime, we're gonna prepare him for logistics. In every progress letter, I try to tell you where we stand. If it's okay, then a letter has just been sent to the Chamber about the third contract we signed with Janssen in Leiden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u297	Would you mind if I asked the Minister the following question? He promised that he would come forward in mid-October with an impact on the road map, whether in colour or not. Does the scaling come into sight? Can he also visualize this so that we all know when we're really at the end of this mess?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u298	Those are actually two different things. I need to put it as accurately as possible. One is the expectation when the end of the pandemic is in sight. This has everything to do with the rate of development of the vaccine. The second question is how are we going to dance with the virus? What measures do we take when and how do we deal with scaling up and scaling up? I've got these two to deal with. In the progress letter to the Chamber, I will try to describe both.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u299	Dancing with the virus; that lingers a bit in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u300	I shall go on to the same point, because I think that Mrs Van Brenk is right to make a point here. It lives with a lot of people. I also mentioned this in my first term. I'd gone for a moment on the dashboard signal. How does the dashboard signal play a role in weighing up the extension of this law and extending the measures? I have not yet heard that in the Minister's response. The minister just said how he wants to deal with the advent of a vaccine. But I think that the bill also calls on the Minister to argue very well when there is still a threat. I would like more words from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u301	You will have to argue every time an extension occurs why you think it is necessary. In accordance with the Van der Staaij amendment, you will have to seek advice from the Council of State. This was also your own amendment; it was a cooperative. So we're gonna have to do that anyway. We might use the dashboard for that, because you probably need to say something about the rate of infection. Let's go back to just before the summer. Then we had an infection rate that was very low. 1 in 10,000 people was contagious at the time. Try running into them; that's not easy. In the meantime, we're at a life-size level of contagion. At that time there were 2,000 people contagious, but by now that is thick through the 150,000. In short, the infectiousness at any time and with that also the numbers on the dashboard do not make whether or not you will have to continue with this law. Whether the end of the pandemic is in sight, that makes it whether you will have to continue with this law. And the end of the pandemic is really much more related to the probability we can expect from the vaccine. That is why I am working so intensively on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u302	At some point a situation will arise in which we will have to accept that we must relate to the presence of the virus. So I wonder if the Minister can shed some light on this. For suppose there are still cases of corona in neighbouring countries and no longer in the Netherlands. The fact that you must have "the end of the pandemic in sight" could potentially mean that the minister also says: it is good to extend the law, because you never know. It is good to clarify what is leading the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u303	You expect such prophetic gifts from me; I cannot! There is no cabinet anywhere in the world that can answer these kinds of questions. So that is also the uncertainty we have to deal with. We need to be honest about that uncertainty. No one can predict the end of this nasty movie. But if you're asking me what's the most promising asset, that's vaccination. The next best is a very good treatment, which is so incredibly good that we can very quickly and very early in the disease phase protect anyone who suffers from a more than mild infection. It could be. But let's hope for that vaccine, because it seems pretty miserable. You must really want to prevent those infections. If we do not succeed in creating an end to this pandemic along that road, it will always be necessary to take action. But what exactly does that look like and in which variants, and whether it makes such a temporary law necessary at all, I cannot predict. Take New Zealand. It's easy there, because all you have to do is stomp it out on the island itself, because for the rest you decide who will or will not land on the island. But even there, we are simply taking all the measures that are being taken in the rest of the world when the virus flares up there. So no one can say he's free from the virus or protected if the rest of the world isn't. This is the basis of our vaccination strategy. Eventually, as a world population, we will not be protected until we are all protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u304	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u305	Finally. I would like to ask the Minister's opinion on the Amendment No. 39 which has been tabled to replace the Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by Amendment No 1 by This is about the proportionality of the measures. The cabinet should always argue it very well and explicitly. That is also a bit related to this discussion. At a time when it is less intense, it also means that your measures could be scaled down immediately. I would like to have an opinion from the Minister on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u306	I see that the Minister can probably answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u307	In our choreography within the cabinet, we had subdivided this amendment with the Minister of the Interior. But there's no problem explaining it. We leave the judgment to the Chamber here. There will always have to be a good balance between the need on the one hand and proportionality on the other. We will have to support that. It is up to us to convince your Chamber of that. It is up to your Chamber to then agree. So we'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. This brings me, Mr President, to the final agreement of my contribution to this deadline. I am going to go over the amendments one more time. I shall begin with the Van Raak/Van der Staaij amendment to item No. 15. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. 40. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. The amendment in part No. 40 replaces the amendment in part No. 26. We talked about that. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. 27. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. 30. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. The opinion on the amendment to item No. 31 I leave to the Chamber. Excuse me, I hear it has been replaced by the amendment to item No. 39. There are also a number of amendments which belong to the portfolio of Mr Ollongren and Mr Grapperhaus. The amendment in part No. 34 I don't recommend. I would like to make a few comments on this point. Thirty-five, thirty-six and thirty-seven, I advise. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 38 I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. Thirty-nine we've just had it. Well, that's it then. So you see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u308	Thank you. Then we will continue the debate after the suspension.
