ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the VSO Monitor Polisoffer 2020 and the Risk Settlement Model 2021 (29689, no. 1079). I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Solidarity is at the heart of our system. As CDA, we'd like to keep it that way. This means not only solidarity between residents, but also between health insurers. That goes through the risk settlement model. But an investigation by KPMG shows that iptiQ makes €200 profit per insured person. For ONVZ, that's only €20. So it's just going all crooked. It's still rewarding to avoid chronically ill. We want to do something about that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the risk settlement system is the basis for ensuring the solidarity of our healthcare system by removing incentives for risk selection;]] [[noting that KPMG's research has shown that the current risk settlement system does not sufficiently compensate health insurers or over-compensates for identifiable groups with certain health characteristics;]] [[Whereas the insufficient functioning of the risk settlement system distorts the level playing field between health insurers;]] [[Whereas the examination of KPMG gives no reason to proceed to a maintenance situation;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent committee with international experts, among other things, to investigate the proper functioning of the risk settlement system (including ex ante and ex post) and thereby to monitor and ensure the level playing field between health insurers, and to inform the House of Representatives of 2022 on what steps should be taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-1084]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the municipality's policy provides a good instrument to ensure that also minimums are adequately insured and thus avoids care by this vulnerable group;]] [[Whereas at the same time the municipality's policy is relatively expensive, partly because of the above average entitlement to care, whereas affordability for minimums is fundamental to the proper functioning of the municipality's policy;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it is important that we maintain the possibilities for municipalities and insurers to meet minimum financial requirements;]] [[noting that the Minister intends to abolish the collectivity discount in its entirety by 2023;]] [[calls on the Government to make an exception to the municipal policy and to maintain the maximum 5% reduction in collection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-1085]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	I don't quite understand the motion. In my view, it is still possible for municipalities to provide support for minima, including in the area of care, through special assistance or other instruments. My question is: is Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	...Raemakers. Sorry. Is Mr Raemakers aware of the fact that there are several studies that show that these municipal policies are not necessarily beneficial to people who are on benefits, for example? For many people it is wiser to see for themselves what the best policies are for them, which is the best offer for them. It can be cheaper than with a municipal policy like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	For the sake of clarity, today is not about whether municipal policies are still possible in the future or not. The Minister's proposal is to abolish the collectivity discount also at the municipality's policy. I would be happy to discuss with Mr Veldman the usefulness and necessity of the municipal policy. In the reports I see that many people in the toughest category are insured, you have three different types of municipal policies.................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is without prejudice to the fact that the municipality's policy is a very nice instrument, provided it is used properly. If insurers say 'by insuring several people with a small stock exchange, we can give a few percent discount', I say as a progressive politician: if insurers want to help vulnerable people in the Netherlands in this way, I want to continue to allow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	Finally, Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	Then I understand that this is about the discount. That is why research shows that it is a cigar from its own box, that the discount given is actually paid by the contributor himself. So you pay a higher premium and then get a discount on the higher premium you paid. That seems to me to be the reverse world, and that is precisely why we need to get rid of discounts of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	That's right. In principle, I agree with Mr Veldman that the discount on collection is now often a cigar from our own box, because the discount on collection that wealthy people get because they work somewhere at a company is indeed financed by all of us. Then you have to ask yourself if all the people who work at companies need that. I don't think so. But we have vulnerable people in the Netherlands who earn 110% or up to 120% of the minimum wage, people in debt, people with chronic illnesses. If we give that group a discount of some percentage paid by the rest of the Netherlands, they are wealthy people who indirectly pay for it, then that is a form of solidarity that we support for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	Let me say first of all that we do not want to abolish the municipal policy as such. That can be a very nice instrument for certain groups. But in fact, Mr Raemakers says the following. That collectivity discount has to be paid for by something. It's about who's going to pay the damage. So that's what all the other citizens are gonna do. So, in fact, Mr Raemakers is raising the healthcare allowance. Then I would find it clearer if he were to come up with such a proposal, because it is about how you are going to pass on the burden of damages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	No, it's not raising the care allowance. That's not right. The aim is to encourage municipalities to make agreements with insurers on how to better care for very vulnerable residents. That's the point. That's paid for by someone. Everything we make up in this house is paid for by someone. We have also had more discussions about the government or the health insurance company; in the end it is all because of the 17 million inhabitants we have paid. But in this case we look at the target group of the municipality policy. Your own alderman of the CDA in Rotterdam, Mr De Langen, says: please let us as a municipality keep that collectivity discount at the municipal policies, because it concerns vulnerable people. That is why I would be surprised if the CDA did not support this motion of D66 and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	Finally, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	We have no problem at all if municipalities want to give people an additional financial advantage in a municipality policy, but the core of the question is who is going to pay for it. Is the municipality going to pay for this or is the rest of the Netherlands going to pay for it? Then I think you should ensure a level playing field and that not one municipality has something for its citizens at that level and the other municipality does not. I would like to have that fundamental discussion, but the essence of the issue is who pays the burden of damage. But that is what we are going to talk about in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mrs Van den Berg says that the question is whether municipalities are going to pay for this or the rest of the Netherlands. You can say that municipalities are going to pay for this and not the health insurance companies, but who pays taxes in the municipalities? What do municipalities get the income from? That's from the government for a very large part. Then it's paid for by people, too. Again, D66 and GroenLinks believe that this is a vulnerable group of people and that it is justified to do an extra redistribution and support this group, both through the association of municipalities and through the health insurance companies, because they need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	I have one more question. It's about policies, the so-called clone policies. Those are policies that people can choose from that are very similar. In 2018, there were 56 of them. By 2020, there were 55 of them. So there's one less policy in two years. This is sometimes called a jungle in this room. The agreement in the coalition agreement is that we are going to actively reduce the number of policies. Is the Minister prepared to engage actively with insurers again to ask whether the number of basically equal clone policies that have no legitimate reason to be different can be reduced? And can the Chamber be informed? I look forward to a response from the Minister to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, ma'am... huh, ma'am? I now give the floor to Mr Renkema. No?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	I'm quitting my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	Okay. Then I will go to Mr Veldman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr. Chairman. It's almost November 12th. That is the date on which all insurers will have to make their premiums known again. It is also the starting point for people to move from one insurer to another. Practice shows that a lot of people don't. Sometimes perhaps due to negligence and ignorance, sometimes unfortunately because people are afraid that they will not be able to go to another insurer, since it is not assumed that any additional insurance will be required. Now the latter can only be done in the broadest sense of the word; only the broadest packages are sometimes subject to additional requirements. But most people can switch without any problems and can go without problems to a cheaper policy, if they find it with another insurer, or to a policy that they say: hey, this one is more tailor-made for me. Sometimes you're insured for things you don't need at all. For example, many additional policies have all kinds of support around pregnancy. I'm sure of one thing: I'm not gonna be able to get pregnant. I don't need that kind of insurance either. So you can look more tailored to what you need or don't need. Precisely because we see that so few people eventually switch, my question to the Minister is: how will they now be known from 12 November when all policies are known, ensure that people are familiar with the possibilities they have, that people are familiar with the fact that switching is a right and that switching is also wise in many circumstances because you can get a better or a cheaper policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u22	Let me point out that I support good information in order to be able to switch. Perhaps Mr Veldman has simply chosen an unfortunate example. That is possible, but when we talk about solidarity in the system, I also hope that we will not go shopping like we have seen too much in recent years: I am taking a very high risk of my own, because nothing can happen to me. We want to get rid of that tomorrow, and we want to get rid of these clone policies tomorrow. I hope that Mr Veldman will not argue that men will no longer have to pay for the fact that women become pregnant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u23	And she didn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u24	They can't do it. But solidarity means carrying each other's burden. So I would like to know explicitly how far Mr. Veldman's solidarity goes before all kinds of things are taken out of basic insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u25	Yes, Mr. Veldman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u26	I didn't talk about adjusting basic insurance. I think we have a very solid system in which young, old, ill, healthy, everyone, has access to the same care. But where you provide additional insurance, there are policies where there are a number of things by default. You just have the choice not to insure yourself for something that's not going to happen to you, or for something that you think of yourself: you know what, I do this or I do sister or I do so, so I don't need any additional insurance for that. Fortunately, we have that opportunity in this country, and as far as I am concerned, people need to make much more use of it than we do now. Because now we see that 6%, 7% of people change insurance, while research also shows that a lot of people don't really know what they're insured for. If they did know that and made good choices, they'd be cheaper out. And you know as well as I do what the cost of the premiums are. That's kind of a burden for a lot of people every month anyway. If you can get out cheaper, then we should definitely encourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u27	Finally, Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u28	Then I conclude that Mr Veldman has mentioned an unfortunate example and that his plea focuses in particular on supplementary insurance. Of course we see too much there that it is going to be a bit of an on/off system in the sense of: I need a brace now, so let me turn it on. The whole system is also ruined by lack of solidarity. But I think we will continue this debate at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u29	I think it would be a good idea to continue that at another time. For it is by no means a plea to lift solidarity; it is precisely a plea to maximise the freedom of choice that people have, precisely one of the beautiful rights within this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jansen on behalf of the PVV. The debate on Mr Veldman's pregnancy is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u31	That would be news, Mr President! Mr. Chairman. I have just heard a number of interesting discussions between colleagues about solidarity and who is going to pay it. Look, we're looking at the facts as PVV. The facts are that the cost of care is rising. The fact is that more and more people are struggling or even unable to pay the premium for their health insurance policy at all. If you then look at who pays and how united we are, we find it shameful that we, as PVV, have the national borders open to status holders coming here and that the whole of the Netherlands can pay for the care costs of these people. If you talk about keeping the care affordable, our suggestion would be to keep the boundaries tightly closed for once and to make sure that you only have those who want to build their own existence, who want to work for themselves and who do not just come here because they want to have it better economically. In my opinion, this will prevent a huge increase in the cost of care. This will bring us a lot further, I think, in ultimately saving unnecessary expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u32	I do not go into the second part of the PVV's speech, but at the beginning I think Mr Jansen said something sensible, namely that it is important for people to be able to pay their care costs. I'm curious, because when you're talking about minimums, they're still a big part of the PVV's supporters when I look at their electorate and they're worried about their income, but they're also worried about their expenses and certainly about their healthcare expenses. Is the PVV willing to support the motion of D66 and GroenLinks to at least allow a municipality to arrange a discount for certain target groups from the largest insurer in that region?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u33	We will look at all the motions that have been announced on the content. I will come back to Mr Renkema. It's just that if you make sure that you don't make unnecessary expenses at the front, the costs are automatically lower. Because you'll have fewer people to pay the bounty for. In the end, all Dutch people have to get along. Then we still say: close the borders, because then you pay less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. Soon it'll be time again. Then we all have the opportunity to go to another health insurance provider. But making that choice is just very difficult. You have comparison sites, but for those sites take, for example, Independer......................................................................................................................................................... Although that site depicts all health insurance companies, those who pay get an extra large platform. We don't think that's pure. We've already argued for an independent healthcare comparison before. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current comparison websites for health insurance are not independent;]] [[Whereas it is very important that insured persons can make a choice for health insurance on the basis of independent and comprehensible information and that a comparison site is a good tool in this respect;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there is one independent comparison site for health insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-1086]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u36	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Mr President. For the sake of time, I will try to confine myself to the core. I have two questions and three motions for resolutions have been tabled. Mr Veldman had a question about switching. I think it is very important that people make an informed choice. Perhaps switching is less of an end in itself, but I very much agree with him on making an informed choice. In addition to the fact that about 6.5% of people actually switch, it might be good to point out here that about 20% of people are actually orienting themselves towards the exchange of health insurance. If that contributes to making that informed choice, I think that is positive. There are several ways we can reach the public about this. That goes through the health insurance companies, of course. I refer to the comparison sites, which I shall be speaking about in the light of the motion. The government also makes information ads, for example on radio and on social media, to point out the possibilities of switching. Mr Raemakers asked me to talk to health insurers about cloning policies. The answer to that is: yes, I do. By the way, I don't quite recognize the image he sketched. We see that the number of groups has increased and the number of policies has fallen. As far as I am concerned, there is a positive development going on, but it is an important subject to discuss with health insurers. In addition, I will also ask the NZa to monitor at the beginning of 2021 whether that good trend in the development of the number of almost equal policies continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u38	I am curious to know where the Minister is coming from, however, that this trend would fall so much in recent years. If I count from the coalition agreement, it was 56 policies and we now have 55 policies. So I get to minus one. Of course, that's not very much. I would like to ask the Minister if we can agree on a time limit for the Chamber to receive that information. I would really argue in favour of doing so before the election recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u39	If you look behind those figures, you can see that there is an increase in the number of groups and a decrease in the number of policies. So the net effect and the gross effect could be something else. Then monitoring the NZa in 2021. I can imagine informing the Chamber about this, but I can't quite see what the deadline is. In any case, I will strive to do so before the elections. It also depends on when we get the monitor from the NZa.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u41	Then there is Mrs van den Berg's motion on item No. 1084. I liked her introduction to the risk settlement. I really think that risk settlement is a great deal of good. It is an expression of and the foundation of solidarity. For the sake of time, I report that we are engaged in a number of investigations. Mrs van den Berg referred to the first part of this and said that she really wants to set up an independent committee. We are currently carrying out a number of follow-up studies. As far as I am concerned, these follow-up studies will clarify more quickly than when we set up an independent committee of international experts. I'd like to ask her to hold the motion. In 2021, I will be able to inform the Chamber about those follow-up investigations. If she wants to go through with it, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u42	The letter we received from the Minister states in the results of the current investigations that we are going to a maintenance system. A maintenance system basically means that you say: well, the way things are going, it's going pretty well. We fundamentally disagree with that. The depth of these investigations is therefore not sufficiently clear to me. I'd like to think about the Minister's suggestion. We may have a little discussion on this in the next few days. It's about not going to a maintenance system, because it's just not right in the base.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u43	Let me point out that in other parts of the system there are also relationships with models and supervision. At the same time, you can see here that the health insurance companies, the researchers and the Healthcare Institute are already involved. So I don't see its added value in advance. I just want to be honest with you about that. Mrs Van den Berg says otherwise. I'm trying to buy time by saying, "Let's wait for that follow-up." I can also imagine that I will have a moment with Mrs van den Berg, but if she wishes to continue the motion until the investigation arrives, that would be very nice. Otherwise, I'm gonna stay off the hook.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u44	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u45	Then the motion-Raemakers/Renkema in part No. 1085, on the collectivity discount. What was included in the debate on this matter with Mrs van den Berg and Mr Veldman, I would also like to say that we have the health allowance for the promotion of solidarity through a piece of redistribution. I also want to say here that it sounds very annoying to say that you're abolishing a discount. That really sounds like you're taking something from people, but it's a cigar from your own box. It is a storage that is first paid and then provided as a discount. I think it's right that we support people who can't afford it. There are opportunities for that in the municipality. The municipality's policy remains possible as well. I think it is an important instrument, also from my previous role as Secretary of State for Social Affairs. It is not the best solution for everyone, because a lot of people really pay too much. I am prepared to discuss with municipalities what measures they can take. But I am very much in favour of letting income support run through the healthcare allowance, not by maintaining the collectivity discount. That's why I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1086, by Mrs Sazias, on the independent comparison sites. The discussion about how independent these comparison sites are often comes back. A large number of these comparison sites have developed a quality mark. This means that they must show an unpaid top three to insured persons. In any case, that means that I have come to the conclusion that making further or even more independent is not necessary. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u46	It is true that some sites show all insurers, but they still make a difference between those who pay and those who don't pay. Those who pay will just get a bigger stage. And that's misleading. That is why we would like to have an independent comparison site, where everyone clearly has equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u47	I understand the plea, but I still insist on my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-5.u49	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
