ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday afternoon. I shall first give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema, on behalf of the VVD, for his question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, who replaces the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. The question is about the chaos at the Haga Lyceum. Go ahead, Mr. Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I thought I'd have three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u3	No, four of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u4	Four even! Then it's gonna be all right. Mr. Chairman. This Haga saga has no ending. That's deep, deeply sad. The Haga Lyceum should never have been there and everything has been pulled out to prevent this school from starting. A member of the board expressed sympathy for the terror group Islamic State, the funding was refused by then Secretary of State Dekker, the education inspection was thrown out of the school and refused further access. Mr. Chairman. On 5 June last, the Education Inspectorate confirmed that there had been a complaint about the eavesdropping of confidential conversations. When did the inspection find out she was bugged? During their investigation, did the inspectors have any indication that they were being bugged? Was there any mention of this at the time? Then why didn't the Minister share that with the Chamber? What are the consequences of eavesdropping inspectors for school funding? In this case, is there any obstacle to the inspection of education and therefore legal basis to stop funding? Or is there maladministration and therefore a legal basis to stop funding? Mr. Chairman. In March 2019 I told Haga Lyceum to close. The cabinet indicated that there was no ground for that. I have the impression that the Ministry was hoping that things would be better, that things would be okay. Well, we knew that. It's only gotten worse. In the event of refusal to allow the inspection, the funding could be stopped. The Minister didn't do that at the time. Doesn't the Minister think, looking back now, that this is a capital mistake? Because, Chairman, the latest episode of this soap opera is really too sad for words. On 28 May last, the chairman of the board announced the secretary, but this chairman had already been suspended by the director and the same secretary. Are you still following it? The school is now simply out of control. Who is actually authorized to call the other guard? Even the education inspector doesn't know anymore and has asked to report in detail who is in charge now. Until when does the school have to respond to that? Shouldn't an e-mail be able to do that in a day? With all this information, can the Minister still not make a partial or total withdrawal of the funding? What exactly did the Minister do about this between 28 May and today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I am replacing Mr Slob, who is currently defending a bill in the First Chamber. I understand very well that Mr Heerema is raising this issue today, because the situation at the Haga Lyceum is, of course, extremely worrying, especially for pupils and parents. And that must be our primary concern. It might be good to say in advance that this is under the judge. That's why I can't say much about what's going on in there at the moment. An interim action was brought on 4 June, which will be delivered tomorrow. We hope to know tomorrow who is the driver at the moment. We also hope to know tomorrow who we can talk to administratively. Mr Heerema also had a question about eavesdropping the inspection. The inspection had previously suspected that there might be a bug, but it had no evidence to support it. The indications were also not sufficiently concrete. For this reason, the inspection did not inform me of this and we did not report it to the Chamber. At that time, however, the inspectors changed their working methods by always sitting in a different place and having been extra alert. Only when the instructions for eavesdropping were sufficiently concrete did they be reported to the police. That listening practice is therefore currently the subject of judicial investigation. Mr Heerema also asked me whether the fact that there is being bugged is sufficient reason to speak of maladministration and whether that is possible reason to withdraw funding, for example. I'd almost say, if only it were that simple. But of course it's not like that. It will be necessary to establish who has been bugged in the judicial investigation first. That is why there is reason for a criminal investigation. When it comes to maladministration, rather steps have been taken to impose a financial sanction, but that judgment has been overturned by the judge. There is currently an investigation conducted by the Haga Lyceum inspection in the context of a recovery mission. Is that recovery order fulfilled? You could say that if the previous maladministration had not been remedied, you could now proceed very quickly, if it had not been reversed by the judge earlier. So that means that I understand very well the frustration that many people feel about it, that the inspection needs to re-examine that at the moment and draw up a report again. We have to go back through the procedure with that. That is why we are working on this proposal, and that is also what your Chamber knows about it, in order to renew the instruments of inspection so that we can act more quickly in the future and the deadlines can be shorter. So at the moment we cannot impose financial sanctions. To this end, the inspection of the repair orders will have to be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u7	Surely I can assume that if it turns out that the eavesdropping went that way, that is a reason for withdrawing the funding? The Minister has promised that she will come to the Chamber with proposals to extend the instruments to deal with this type of failure. I want this proposal to be sent to the Chamber before the summer. You've been able to work on it for over a year now, so I think it's been a long time. It feels so uncomfortable. We've been waiting so long for that law on the citizenship assignment. He was supposed to come to the room. I would actually ask you to do this before the summer. That is simply necessary for these situations, so that we can intervene, because I feel the inconvenience that we as a Chamber can do so little with. Would you like to make it quite clear that this kind of chaos at a school is a reason to withdraw funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u8	The Minister. These are specific questions, so they can also be answered in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr Heerema asked a question as-dan: if it is established that the board has been bugged, what then? In order to answer that question, we really need to wait and see. I'm not going to speculate on that right now. The citizenship bill is in front of your Chamber. The note following the report follows in the short term. At least we'll send it to the Chamber before the summer. For the legislative proposal on administrative instruments, we have just received the execution test. This proposal goes to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible and then has to go to the Council of State. We're trying to speed it up, but we're really not gonna be able to send this to your room for the summer. Mr President, these were my answers to Mr Heerema's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u10	Fine. Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u11	We're all doing this for the kids eventually. We almost forgot, but every day a group of students is exposed to the whims of the administrators of this school. What are the consequences for the quality of education with such an administrative crisis as this? How can we best help these kids? As far as we are concerned, this school does not belong in the Dutch education system. That's not where our taxpayers' money's supposed to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u12	You may respond to that, but that was a statement by Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u13	I did not hear a question, but let us note that it is not the intention to close the school here, but to have good governance there. That has always been the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. I shall go first to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u15	Intimidation, anxiety, bugging and a board that's fighting each other out. And the Minister, I don't believe my ears, just said, "We hope to hear tomorrow who makes the call." You are! The Minister makes up the department in education. She's the boss, eventually, when things go so terribly wrong. Do you agree with me? Do you agree with me that it is a terrible disappointment that the Dutch Government has still not succeeded in simply putting this administration aside? 'Cause this can't be. This is maladministration. This is an embarrassment for the kids. Minister, clean up!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u16	I do understand what Mr Van Dijk has to say in his question. But the beauty of this country is that rulers must also obey the law. It is still the case that a minister is not the competent authority of a school. As a result of tomorrow's interim proceedings, we know who will then be recognized as the competent authority. We can then set the paths on that. I get a lot of the feelings around here. Can't it all go any faster? However, we have here together, you too, as co-legislator, created the legal instruments that the inspection has to do its work with. With you, I believe that this is why there is also a legislative proposal for a revision of the administrative instruments. We are trying to pull everything out of the box, within the legal framework of the instruments, to take appropriate measures here, but you also know that the judge of the measures we had taken said 'we do not agree with that judgment'. The judge didn't think there was maladministration, for example, so we couldn't go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u17	We've had huge problems with Islamic schools for over ten years. I refer to Ibn Ghaldoun in Rotterdam, the Islamic University of Europe in Rotterdam, the Haga Lyceum, which we are talking about now, and Al Amana in Ede. These problems relate to fraud, deception, malpractice, but also to ideological principles. I refer to institutionalized discrimination against women, believers, unbelievers, homosexuals. That is where the problem lies. The VVD knows that, you know that, and the AIVD knows that like no other. But that is not formally recognised. The PVV has offered a way out with an amendment to that law More room for new schools. That would be precisely the nice extension of the legal instruments. This amendment provides that "the application for funding of a new school to be set up shall be refused by the Minister if the underlying vision of life does not relate to the principles of..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u18	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u19	This needs to be explained, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u20	But I don't know how long that quote is. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u21	Very briefly. But now I have to start over, or the minister will lose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u22	No, we're not. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u23	Here we go. "This amendment stipulates that the application for funding of a new school to be set up shall be refused by the Minister if the underlying vision of life does not relate to the principles of the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms such as equality of men and women, lhbti+, and of non-thinkers and non-believers...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr. Beertema...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u25	...as enshrined in the Constitution." And yet you are betraying this amendment!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u26	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u27	You're dissuading the amendment. Why don't you explain to me why you're doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u28	This is a bit avenged that I myself did not deal with that bill and did not speak about it either. It is not my fault that I do not have the entire parliamentary treatment here in my head. But the big profit, soon, of that new bill More room for new schools, of course, is that we have the opportunity to do a test in advance. Maybe not in the wording you meant, but there is that possibility. That's a big profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u29	And now a brief question, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u30	That is not a profit at all, because this point remains very specific. The other minister has advised against this. So you are opening the way for setting up schools of neo-Nazis, for example; I hope they are not listening at the moment, but they can set up a school. If they submit a fun, modern-looking curriculum and school plan, they can set up a school based on the superiority of the white race, for example. You didn't shut down that road. With this amendment, we have asked for that line in the sand, that line between totalitarian ideologies that abuse our freedom of education and the civilisation and freedom of our beautiful rule of law. Please respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u31	I would like to do that, because I disagree with Mr Beertema that the new bill would not give us the tools to prevent a school that does not support the principles of law of our society from coming into existence. That space does offer the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u32	Then I will go to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u33	We very much appreciate the Minister as guardian of the freedom of education, because that freedom of education is a great asset and we must also continue to cherish it. Only, that freedom of education is not a licence for maladministration or dubious matters. This is a very clear instance of maladministration. Just the fact that one of the drivers is being dropped off by the other driver, indicates that there is chaos and that I fully agree with colleagues that the children are at risk of being put down because that school is not being properly managed. My question to the Minister is specific: what instrument is the Minister missing at the moment in order to be able to intervene decisively?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u34	I very much agree with Mr Bishop that the freedom of education should never be a licence for maladministration. I also agree with him where he says that the situation there is very worrying and that we should not want that because children and parents suffer from it and suffer from it. Then there is the question of what instruments we are missing. In particular, we lack shorter deadlines and instruments to act more quickly on the basis of these signals. In the legislative proposal that we are preparing, we are going to extend these instruments precisely in this area so that we can act more quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u36	Mr. Chairman. Education is an ongoing concern for the government, as stated in Article 23. This is certainly a matter of continuing concern. From this duty of care, like Mr Bishop, I am concerned about the social security of the children at the Haga Lyceum. To what extent is it now certain that tomorrow's plea will be settled? Or are there any possibilities that the legal battle between those drivers lasts even longer and that there is longer uncertainty about who is actually in charge at that school? What can the Minister do to ensure the social security of children?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u37	I suspect the judge is... Somewhere this argument has to be settled who is the competent authority here. I have every confidence that it will be clear tomorrow. Then we'll know who we can talk to. Then the inspection will continue that conversation with that driver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u38	All children in the Netherlands are entitled to good and safe education. To see if that actually happens, we have an education inspection. It has already happened a number of times in this case that this education inspection is faced with a fact which I think is unacceptable, namely refusing access and eavesdropping. Apparently, the question remains as to who has been listening, but it is both practices that the Minister does not like. I'm gonna get out of there. My question is, about the instruments that are to come: is this also about when the school can be closed if the inspection does not have access or is otherwise miserable or unjustly dealt with? That is why, as a society, we cannot look at what really happens at a school. Does the Minister agree with me that this should lead directly to the closure of the school?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u39	One of the problems we have is that the definition of "maladministration" is now a very limited one. That is why the maladministration which the inspection previously said was involved has been undermined by the judge. One of the things in the administrative instruments in the bill is therefore a broader definition of "maladministration." I don't have the whole bill in my head, but I just assume that if a board commits criminal offences, which can be taken under the definition of "maladministration."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u40	What happens to MPs when it comes to Islamic education? What happens to Alderman Moorman of the PvdA? With Mayor Halsema of GroenLinks? Last week we saw on TV that the AIVD message on which everything was based was rattled on all sides, which was turned on. There have been 45 trials, almost all won. Where does this institutional bias, including the Minister, come from in relation to Islamic education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u41	I would like to assure Mr Azarkan one thing: I have no prejudice at all when it comes to freedom of education. In fact, I have just said to Mr Heerema: it is neither Mr Slob nor me that this school should be closed down. The point is that there will be good governance. That is why Mr Slob's designation at the time was that the administration had to be replaced, so that there was good governance and we could have real confidence in the competent authority. This is not at all about the question: can there be Islamic education here? This is about: is this a well-run school? I think we are seeing here that at least that is not the case at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr Azarkan, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u43	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's ability to judge what is good and what isn't, I can't tell anything. I note that this is an institutional bias. I'll also tell you what that proves. This Minister, at least Minister Slob, wanted to stop the funding. Then he'll be flagged back by the Supreme Administrative Court, the Council of State. You can't do that. Why does the Minister do that? Then the Minister says: I'm going to tell that board to resign. Then the judge says you can't do that. Mr. Chairman. How can you tell me that there is no institutional bias against this school? What this minister needs to explain is that these children and those parents have the right to Islamic education. We're allowed to make demands on that. What is not possible is that we go too far in that and that the Minister is being whistled back every time by bodies that fortunately still guard that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u44	The only thing I would like to say to Mr Azarkan is that I dare to say that Mr Slob too, if similar facts had occurred in any other school in the Netherlands, the Minister would have acted in the same way. I also notice it in the Chamber; we believe, for example, that the definition of what we call maladministration should be broader. In any case, the judgement of the cabinet has nothing to do with the basis of the school, but with the way in which it is run, with the way in which education is given and with the quality of education. That's what the inspection oversees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-2.u45	Thank you.
