ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	Then we go to the VSO Planning national scientific research thirteenweek echo, Office 29323, No. 138. I give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have a question for the State Secretary, who, in his letter of 21 April, states that the intended introduction of the thirteen-week echo is in the second half of 2021. I find that quite common, especially when you consider that there is a huge timeline of investigations. Much has happened, but it seems to me now is time for the Secretary of State to tell us when we are really going to start. Mr. Chairman. It is also important that the Chamber has an up-to-date understanding and overview of this process. Hence the next motion, which I have tabled together with Mrs Tellegen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Health Council advised in 2016 to conduct a national scientific research into the thirteen-week echo and that the House of Representatives in 2018 advised the Bergkamp/Tellegen motion (32279, no. 145), which requested the government to start this process by 1 January 2020 at the latest, but now it appears that this will only take place in the second half of 2021;]] [[noting that in the previous RIVM exploration an "Overview activities needed for national scientific research 13 weeks echo" was given;]] [[calls on the government to report once every six months on the state of play regarding the introduction of the national scientific research into the thirteen-week echo, adding to the reports what steps still need to be taken and what the state of play is, and if the implementation is not as planned, to inform the Court of Justice earlier than the half-yearly report on the reason and (additional) actions taken by the government to ensure that the introduction of the research is introduced as soon as possible and that the Chamber has an up-to-date view of the process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29323-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We naturally agree with the words of Mrs Bergkamp and my colleague, Mr Tellegen. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the second half of 2021 is still being achieved for this plan. That's what we really want to know. The background is that a lot of parents worry during their children's pregnancy. They worry about simple things like the interior of their nursery, they sometimes worry about the way to the hospital, but they almost always worry about their baby's medical condition. This thirteen-week scan is going to contribute a lot to that. In 2016, the Health Council already presented this proposal. Since then, 170,000 babies have been born a year, so at least half a million, and there are at least a million concerned parents. You're gonna count on it soon. One million concerned parents further we wonder whether 2021 will actually be met. In December, a consultation is planned which is more generally about birth and birth care. As far as we are concerned, this also takes into account prenatal screening in general. We also saw it on the agenda. We wonder whether there are not too many bodies involved in this thirteen-week scan. Are they all agencies that have to wait for each other? Is this really the most efficient and good way to handle this? We look forward to that. We also wonder if the Public Research Act is the right law to regulate this type of thirteen-week scans and prenatal screenings. We'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he sees it that way. Maybe he can lift a tip from the veil already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bolkestein. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State may respond directly to the motions and to the questions. That's nice. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. Both spokesmen, Mr Bolkestein and Mrs Bergkamp, called for attention to be paid to the introduction of the thirteen-week study. We've already had a lot of exchanges. There's been a lot of writing about it. Mr Bolkestein refers to 2016. I think there's already been a lot of communication on how that went. I would like to say again that I do not have an agenda aimed at slowing this down, but it must be done carefully. I shall then take up the question that Mr Bolkestein raises: are there not too many organisations involved in the preliminary stage? I think this is careful. To be honest, I wouldn't know which organization I'd have to take out in front, because there's a lot of expertise there. I would add that the question is whether it would lead to an acceleration of implementation if we had to do it by another route. As far as I am concerned, that is the answer to the question. I think it is now well arranged to involve field parties, and that these field parties are also the appropriate partners to lift this off the ground. Mr. Chairman. Then the question is whether it will succeed in the second half of 2021, as was the last communication in April. The Chamber won't be surprised in the light of history that I'm not going to mention a date. I would like to say a few words about the reality of introduction in the second half of 2021. RIVM and its chain partners aim for 1 September 2021. There's a disclaimer behind that. There's a lot to be done. This is their target date. They don't control certain things themselves. That makes me reluctant to confirm that date. It shouldn't lead your own life in your head, with: it would be September 1st, wouldn't it? RIVM and the chain partners are aiming for that. For example, prenatal diagnostic centres are now recruiting people. In the population survey, more people need to be available, nationwide. That's one. That could be a showstopper, although I don't have any signals yet. That is an important point. What is at least as important is the application for authorisation from the regional centres. The Health Council has to make a judgment on this. This has been carefully arranged in the Netherlands. I'm not in charge of the Health Council. It's an independent institution. Please, let's keep it that way. These are a few disclaimers on the run. I would like to stress once again that I do not have an agenda that is aimed at slowing this down, but we must proceed carefully. As far as I am concerned, in the written consultation on which this little debate is a follow-up, we have set out very carefully what steps need to be taken and how we are doing this carefully. It is precisely in the interests of all those parents and their unborn children to organise this properly. I would like to move on to the motion, but I think Mr Bolkestein would like to ask me a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	Yeah, I saw that. Mr. Bolkestein.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	I understand the word "carefully." Of course we support that. You use that word a lot. In 2016, the Health Council gave advice. The babies who were still in the belly then are now in elementary school. Couldn't this have gone any faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	There's been so much communication on that. I have been very careful in the various debates and in the last written consultation! The steps taken and also any doubts in the field about feasibility, especially if there is not sufficient staff in the overall prenatal examination and birth care. I wouldn't have known with the best will in the world how we could have done it faster. Maybe I should remind Mr Bolkestein that I was not in this place in 2016. In 2018 I picked this up and took the steps that need to be taken. There was once the thought that it could be faster, but that turned out to be premature. The professionals working with this type of work every day say that it is hasty and that it really needs to be done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	I say to Mr Bolkestein and the Secretary of State that the cabinet did not actually come up with a response until after a year and a month after it took office. At the beginning there was a lot of delay and it is difficult to walk in. I'd like to ask you a question about something that, frankly, surprises me. In the letter of 21 April 2020, the State Secretary says: "With all these preparations, the planned introduction of the 13-week echo in the second half of 2021 is realistic." So I thought, oh, realistic. But now I hear the Secretary of State mention a number of safeguards and a number of reservations. Yeah, I'm sure that'll freak me out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	I want to put a very big line under the word "realistic." It's realistic. Only, if, for example, the Health Council is doing longer on the advice on the authorisation, then I cannot say with a gun to the chest that they need to hurry. We are also dependent on external parties. In the context of real expectation management, I am happy to report this. But it's realistic. If sufficient staff are recruited and if this authorisation is indeed at the rate we hope for, then it can be done. RIVM and its supply chain partners will start on 1 September. Then let it be a month later, but that's what they assume. It's realistic. But again, there are show-stoppers, and I think it's fair towards the Chamber to name them here. I don't want to say that it's gonna be okay and then next year we're gonna have to report that there's a kink in the cable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	In conclusion, it would also be fair for the Secretary of State to indicate to the parties concerned that this is a clear and broad wish from the Chamber. It is also good if the Secretary of State makes that known to the participating parties. This has been a broad wish of the Chamber since 2016 and it still is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	In itself, all chain partners know very well that there is such a wish. They all know the motions that have been tabled on this issue. I'm in contact with them, and this item on the agenda will be appointed to those contacts. And I would like to say once again that the Chamber wants this to be swiftly taken up. This is, by the way, a good bridge to the motion that has been tabled on this point, in which I am not only asked to report twice a year, but also if there is a delay in relation to the planning we have just talked about. Can I actively inform the Chamber about this? As far as I'm concerned, that's a good idea, so I'm giving this motion the qualifying Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	Okay, thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday. I see the following spokesmen are also present, so we can go straight ahead, right? Oh, yeah. I see Mrs Westerveld and Mr Wörsdörfer. I do not see Mr Peters yet, but I hear he is. Oh, yeah, there he is. I also see Mr Raemakers and Mr Jansen. Fine.
