ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is a debate with the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I would like to welcome. The description of the subject is quite long. In my opinion, this is actually about an update of the Bibob Act, but I will read the title of the bill in full: Amendment of the Act promoting integrity assessments by the public administration in connection with various extensions of its scope and some other changes. I'll just call it the Bibob plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u2	We're going to start with the first term on the side of the Chamber. There are four speakers. First, Mrs Van Toorenburg has the floor on behalf of the Christian Democrat Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing it here tonight, it is not that late, but it is such a Thursday evening, at a rather special time, it is a very important law, which is not controversial. Then you could say, "Make it a hammer piece." But there are a few points that I think are important to discuss. We also want this law to pass quickly through the Chamber, because it gives instruments to municipalities to prevent the underworld from mixing with the upper world. There are really very few people who doubt the usefulness of this test. Whoever doubts it probably needs him the most. It is a good example of how administrative instruments can help to prevent crime. That is why these enlargements are so welcome. Most of the CDA's questions have already been answered in the written round, but we do have questions about one aspect of this bill, namely the scope of the Bibob test, which is being extended with regard to public procurement. The definition of real estate transactions is also extended. Those are positive things. About these real estate transactions and that Bibob test, I read that in practice municipalities forget to attach a debinding or suspensive condition to them. Then my question is: what happens then? Then everything just goes on, but do we know that there is actual mixing? I would actually like to know from the Minister: without that condition, if it is put properly, is such a Bibob test no longer useful? Doesn't that help us? Is the Minister aware of this problem and, if so, how is it handled? I also received questions from municipalities. What are we going to do when a number of things have already taken place, now that this space is being provided? What does that mean for current contracts, current transactions, current agreements? So suddenly we can't do anything? Of course, we're not treating this law for nothing. That too is an important point. Now that we have the opportunity to talk about that Law Bibob, I will come to two other points. Recently, the province of Noord-Holland has carried out research in the municipalities and the three RIEC's that its collaborations in the province on Bibob policy. The conclusion was sometimes surprised by the fact that the knowledge about Bibob is still lacking in many municipalities. That is very unfortunate, because we have great lawyers working in the various municipalities. They could so well expand their missionary work. We also see it in North Brabant. The level of knowledge in municipalities needs to be improved. A report from the county also showed that things are not going well. I would like to ask the Minister: is he constantly working with the UNG to make sure that people understand that it is important to use this instrument? Because it still happens that there are municipalities that do a lot of tests, while the neighborhood does nothing at all. You'd almost think, "Oh, that's a really nice town." I'd like to live there, because nothing happens there. No, this town wears zoning glasses or pink glasses. There is another aspect that worries me even more. A number of Bibob researchers in the 47 municipalities questioned also appeared to hold other functions in the organisation, such as for example with the licence holder. Of course, it can never benefit the independence of a researcher if at the same time it is the one who grants the licence. Who do you have to be with to intimidate someone if you want to make a mistake? Just the one, the key to the city. It is quite understandable that small municipalities cannot have a full-time employee for that, but I still think it is important that the Minister should consider with us how we are going to prevent people from having these double roles. That is precisely what I know the Minister's heart is about. It makes the system so vulnerable in the undermining approach. That's what we're all about. How is it that the investigator and the license holder are the same person? In the end, you don't have a system to look at in private. The question is even whether that is allowed. It happens a lot, and I've also submitted it to people who work with it on a daily basis. They shrug their shoulders and say: well, it's the practice and it's very complicated in small municipalities. They ought to draw a line in principle. Finally. Too bad the SP colleague isn't here right now, but yesterday they had a very clever input on the care fraud. A motion has been tabled on care fraud and fraud in relation to terrorist financing. I would very much like to know from this Minister whether he is going to table very quickly with his colleague from Health, Welfare and Sport. He said yesterday that he is going to work with the Minister of Justice, because there is a problem that goes through public funds through pgb's care fraud, but it turns out that terrorist financing is actually found in these fraud routes. The Minister said, understandably: I do not know everything in detail, I have to talk to my colleague from the Justice Department. I would like to call him today to go to the table as soon as possible, because the motion was stopped because the Minister wanted to look into it. It must be adopted as soon as possible and given a follow-up. Finally, Mr President. What concerns me all the time is the port of Rotterdam. We have a nice route, special policy, the integrity of the harbor, but still I find it interesting every time to type in "intrepid harbor, Bibob." Every time I come back: do we have enough specific Bibob policy for the port of Rotterdam? Has prevention done enough? In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister today: he knows that a number of other laws are coming, but is there still a specific look at the port of Rotterdam? It is precisely there that so many public functions have been outsourced to companies that then have agreements with other companies, for example the pilots. As a government you no longer have the power and therefore no longer have the Bibob instruments, while a lot of public administration is done by companies in the most vulnerable places: the big drug imports from the Netherlands. So please give specific attention from the minister to the port of Rotterdam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you for your input, too. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius has the floor on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In our country, undermining crime makes billions by ruthless criminals who brutally disrupt and attempt to undermine our rule of law. After murders in residential areas, threatened mayors, forced highly secure journalists, the so-called misdemeanor killings and the murder of the innocent brother of a key witness, we also have two attacks on lawyers, one of whom died, which we can add to this terrible list. It is extremely important that we are not naive and realise that we must do everything we can to ensure that the rule of law wins and continues to win. This means that we must fight with each other and with the cabinet and with this minister every day and continue our efforts to develop and strengthen the approach to undermining. For the treatment of today's law, I'd like to go back in time for a moment. In my opinion, it was the parliamentary committee of inquiry, the Van Traa Committee, which found in 1996 that criminal organisations could use permits and subsidies to launder money. According to Van Traa, the criminal underworld is in the process of infiltrating the legal upperworld. Until the adoption of the Act on the Promotion of Integrity Assessment by Public Administration, Bibob in 2003, only the police and the Public Prosecutor could intervene if criminal practices were involved. With the Bibob Act, other administrative bodies now have an administrative tool that allows them to address or prevent such activities. They can have the Bureau of Bibob investigate the suspicion of malicious practices. In this way, we can prevent the government, whether the municipality, the county or the Empire, from issuing permits that are subsequently abused for criminal activities. Mr. Chairman. The VVD is not only a strong supporter of the Bibob, we also support the extension of this law so that the approach to undermining crime can be strengthened. You have heard me say a great many times in this Chamber, especially when it comes to the exchange of information, that effective fight against crime is still a success. I know that "exchange of information" may not sound very sexy when it comes to tackling organised crime, but it is one of the keys to bringing down criminal networks. The proposal we are discussing today is a good step forward. Although, of course, I have to say that we're still a long way from being here. I have some questions about the use and deployment of the Bibob and the legislative amendment as it now stands. An important objective of the Bibob Act is to prevent municipalities with property transactions, licensing, etc. from facilitating criminal offences or criminal assets being invested in the upper world. We hear from several mayors that the extent to which it is possible to examine the nature, extent and origin of assets is at the border in the event of external financing, i.e. non-bank financing. There is a high risk of using financial arrangements whereby non-intelligent financiers grant loans through non-criminals. In any case, the Bibob Act states that research can be carried out into the method of financing. It is unclear whether this means that the nature, scope and, in particular, origin of funding can also be investigated and what consequences can be attached to that research. If the origin of funding remains unclear, can we add a consequence to this? Can it be said, for example, that due to the lack of clarity of origin, serious danger can be assumed? Mr. Chairman. Next, I have a question about the use of the possibilities offered by the law. Applying for Bibob advice from the National Bureau of Bibob is a serious matter. To what extent, for example, mayors, but certainly other administrative bodies, know how to deal with this and how to investigate whether it is being deployed in time? Of course, the Bureau has a legal duty to provide information, I understand that, and to monitor whether the question before us is justified. But is it also being investigated whether it should have been and could have been used more often or earlier, for example in small municipalities or when there is not enough expertise available? I believe that this question is also in line with Mrs Van Toorenburg's question. How do we know it will be deployed in time? How can we monitor that with each other? I would like a response to that. Finally, I would like to dwell on the Van Oosten/Kuiks motion that the Chamber adopted at the end of 2018, calling on the government to consider the way in which private owners and housing corporations can be warned of criminal intentions of potential users. In the same motion, the government is asked to investigate mandatory screening of criminal backgrounds and intentions, similar to those of the Bibob, for the benefit of owners who want to rent out properties so that they are prevented from getting involved with criminals. In short, individuals who want to rent or sell a property could use the Bibob Act. That's what the motion says. The Minister explained in writing that he did not consider the Bibob Act appropriate. If I see it correctly, I do not see it coming back in the explanatory statement of the second tranche. I would like to know from the Minister what he intends to do to ensure that individuals who want to protect and protect their integrity and prevent them from engaging with criminals unintentionally will also have tools at their disposal to protect themselves and thus also our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you very much for your input. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer, on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A sound rule of law requires an honest government. D66 is therefore committed to ensuring integrity in public administration. When criminal activities threaten to put this integrity under pressure, the government must be able to act, including at local level. Unfortunately, criminal interference is not always visible. Managing organised crime is and remains a challenge. D66 is in favour of instruments that make the risk of interference visible and offer opportunities for preventive action. The Wet Bibob is such an instrument. However, my group is careful not to stare blindly at the constant collection of information and thus lose sight of fundamental privacy rights. Having said that, there are a number of issues that we would like to see clarified by the Minister. These relate to the application of the Bibob Law, the extension of the law, with an impact on privacy, and how the law relates to what is happening outside our borders. Before we extend a law, I always wonder if we have made sufficient use of all the existing possibilities. It seems that many municipalities still have difficulty finding their way to the Law Bibob. The use of Bibob is a discretionary power, but it is up to the municipalities themselves to apply that instrument. I can imagine that large municipalities in particular can find the application of the Bibob Act better, whereas it is much more difficult for small municipalities with limited resources. And so criminal organisations in some municipalities will be able to easily escape the dance, while in other municipalities they will be under a magnifying glass. How is the Minister going to prevent some kind of uneven application of the law, creating a patchwork and actually one with holes? Does the Minister share my concern that criminal activities can move to municipalities that do not have sufficient resources to properly implement the law? How does he think he's gonna prevent this? D66 welcomes the fact that the Minister has acknowledged in the written reply that the Regional Information and Expertise Centres (hereinafter referred to as "the Regional Information and Expertise Centres") can play an important role in this. I therefore hope that the Minister agrees with me that support for smaller municipalities by the RIECs should remain an issue of concern. Then I come to the second point, the extension of the law. The new Bibob Act provides, among other things, that information can be kept longer. In response to my group's questions, the Minister explained why a five-year deadline had been chosen. The benefits of this are clear. It is desirable that administrative bodies should not have to launch a whole new investigation when certain activities have already been reviewed. However, this extension requires a review of privacy protection. How does the Minister ensure that adequate monitoring of that privacy sensitive information will continue in the new period? I hope the Minister can reassure D66 on this point. In addition, it remains important that the Bibob Act is a preventive instrument. It is therefore possible that parties without criminal associations may be affected by the law. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister what remedies are available when parties, actors and companies are wrongly disadvantaged. I am also curious if an impact assessment has been set up. I am not talking about the PIA, the privacy impact assessment, but about an assessment of the impact and costs for governments, business and, of course, society. The financial consequences, as the Minister writes in the explanatory memorandum, are expected to be zero. But our question is: isn't that a little too optimistic given the fact that we are extending the scope of the law? Finally, I would like to talk about the cross-border nature of organised crime and the role of the administrative approach in it. Organised crime doesn't stop at national borders. The prevention of criminal interference should not therefore be allowed to do so. How does the Minister look at the pioneering role that the Netherlands can play in promoting the administrative approach, just like our role in the creation of international law some 120 years ago, but to a slightly more modest extent? D66 also looks with great interest at the EURIEC operational network, the Euregional Information and Expertise Centre. This is a cross-border administrative approach to organised crime. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a concrete plan of action aimed at developing a eu-regional crime image analysis? The Minister knows I've asked for this before. Can the Minister coordinate with colleagues in neighbouring countries in order to create a common intelligence picture and perhaps even a joint operational approach to identified priorities? Finally, I would like to hear from the Minister how the Bibob Act relates to the promotion of administrative integrity in the BES Islands. Does the Minister, as recommended by the Law Enforcement Council, intend to introduce the Bibob Law on the BES Islands as well? I look forward to the Minister answering my questions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you for your input, too. Don't forget your glasses. Finally, Mr Markuszower has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This government, this minister, is full of undermining. The approach to undermining would be a spearhead of this government. The Minister of Justice and Security would make this his priority. Many words, few deeds. Rutte III is a party for criminals. On the CDA and the VVD the criminals of the Netherlands are toasted with bottles of champagne financed from drug money. And not just by the Dutch criminals. Entire international criminal networks thank God on their knees that the CDA and the VVD are waving the scepter at this ministry, because the chance is and remains small. And if you get caught, the odds of a conviction are low. And if you're convicted, the chances of a high prison sentence are low. I'm talking about the serious crime. Because if you're driving a kilometer too fast because you want to get to work on time, or if your parking operation has expired one minute, the government will know where to find you. The government also knows to find you wrongly so it has turned out in the supplementing affair. People of good will were treated as criminals by Rutte III and his ministers, and even before that. Shoplifters, the official internship that all serious criminals go through, are no longer being arrested and prosecuted, so we could read in the media today. Rapists and child molesters are barely prosecuted and punished. Today, Jerry M, the serial child abuser, the athletic coach, who has raped and abused underage girls for years, has received community service. The real heavy criminals of the Netherlands are laughing at the policy of this cabinet. As long as the CDA and the VVD run this ministry, crime is a sensible earning model. And then there's today. Today's drum roll sounds. Hold on, ladies and gentlemen: the CDA and the VVD come, after three years of breeding on an anti-undermining approach, with this bill. This is a change in administrative law, so that integrity assessments can be extended. It doesn't even sound big, because it's not big. Then about the Law Bibob. The Bibob Act provides an administrative tool to support governments in preventing them from unintentionally facilitating criminal activities. The bill we are discussing today extends its scope for application. For example, the definition of the real estate transaction is extended. The Bibob Act protects the integrity of local government and can help to unintentionally facilitate criminal activities by local government. On the side, but not entirely aside. Local politicians, especially from the VVD, often have their own legal spots. It is, of course, a major problem in itself that also hinders the fight against undermining or at least its credibility. On the basis of research, it appears that criminal influence of local public administration is taking place, threat, influence, infiltration, and that this can have a significant impact. This is mainly due to the risks that exist when the attempt to influence criminals is more likely to be successful, such as reputational damage, undermining of the democratic process and citizens' feelings of insecurity. 49% of council members up to 71% of mayors indicate that their municipal integrity policy is present for their function, which is also aimed at countering influence with a criminal purpose. In addition, research shows that 53% of mayors, 64% of aldermen and 19% of council members are screened for integrity. It is striking that the percentages for both screening and integrity policies for council members are the lowest, whereas in 39% of cases where there is or would be infiltration for criminal purposes, they are council members. It is precisely with council members that a screening should be carried out. Why isn't this happening? Why aren't council members all screened by default? Research shows that in about one third of cases where there has been a criminal threat, 66% of the cases have not been reported. I'd like to have a reflection on that from the Minister. An attempted bribery with a criminal intent is hardly ever reported. As far as PVV is concerned, this has to change. This type of serious crime should always be reported as standard. Does the Minister agree with this? Only then can there be a crackdown on this kind of undermining, against these criminals. Does the Minister know these figures? Does he agree with me? And if so, what's he gonna do about this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you very much for your input. I still see a need for an interruption with Mrs Van Toorenburg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr President, otherwise it will be so boring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u12	That depends on your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u13	Of course I'm just listening and then I think: of course things can be supplemented. We often talk about this, together with the VVD, because we believe that more information needs to be exchanged and that declarations are important. All true. But now there is a law that extends the scope and the information. Perhaps it is all too little and there can be more, but does the PVV think the proposals that are before us today are good? Otherwise, we'd give the impression that it's all not working out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u14	One doesn't rule out the other. We are fine with proposals, fine. And we're definitely not gonna lie down for it either. It is certainly a step which the government must take, but it is of course not a step which I tried to indicate in the introduction to my speech, which we should have hoped for, given the expectations of the coalition agreement. Especially CDA and VVD have greatly promoted the fight against undermining. I see the Minister still standing in the last two or three budget debates, the major debates of the year, which announced an anti-undermining approach. Undermining before and undermining after. And what happens after three years? Drum roll: then there's this! It's something we need, sure. We're gonna support it. My compliments to the Minister for sending this to the Chamber, great. But of course it is not what is going to free the Netherlands from the problem of undermining and it is certainly not in line with what we should have expected after the drum roll of earlier, at the presentation of the coalition agreement, at the budgetary discussions, in which this has always been put forward by this minister. I hear a lot of kettle music and little real deeds. It is a bit the reverse Rotterdam model: many words, few deeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u15	A colleague of Mr Markuszower always brings an index to the plenary. There she also does all the other laws that were important in the run-up to a law. Perhaps Mr Markuszower should do the same. There's a leaf on his table now, but I think he's missed a lot. I'd still like to ask him something. Are there in that pile that you are holding up now, also a number of amendments, with which our messengers, who have stayed late tonight, are spearing through the Chamber to deliver them to everyone? Amendments that make such a law even better? The question is a little bit: has Mr Markuszower forgotten what package there was in total, with the financial annexes attached? And where are they? Maybe I'm the only one she's missing and do the colleagues have them all? But where are all the brilliant amendments that make this bill a real tiger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u16	A few things on this. One, I understand that it is a huge disappointment for many Members of Parliament that they see me standing behind the chair and not colleagues of mine, but I think that is more a problem for colleagues than for myself, because I feel very comfortable here. The second point is that I certainly do not find the overall package to be impressive. You know what else it is, I tell you through you, Mr President, to Mrs Van Toorenburg: you only have to walk on the street. You only have to walk through the big cities through expensive shopping streets or through an expensive club and you see the crime. You can see the undermining. You should talk to the average mayor in the Netherlands and you will hear the fear about the bribery attempts, about the threats they face. You have to talk to the average police officer in the Netherlands and you find that they don't have enough tools to deal with those horrible criminals. Not to mention the horrors we've seen over the past year, up to and including the murder of a lawyer. So it's not going so well with that undermining approach. That's what we all agree on, I think. The last thing I was asked for is where all my amendments are. Look, if I have to do all the work the minister's supposed to do, I'd rather take his place. The Minister has a huge device. I am not going to table any amendments today. I didn't prepare them either. I'm fine with the law as it is now, as I just said. We're not gonna lie down for that. It's not heavy enough. If it's going to make CDA or the VVD a little heavier, we'll probably go along with that. I'm also fine if you want to be my coach and teach me how to do my chamber work, but you should have done that sooner. Then you should have given me that tip yesterday or something. Then I could have taken a course with you and perhaps I could have brought in a better arsenal today. This is what I'm talking about, and this is what we really need to do with today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u17	In conclusion, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mr. Chairman. Mr Markuszower is never too old to learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u19	I'm still very young.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u20	That whole tower of justice is also available to Members of Parliament every day, in order to make the most beautiful amendments with support. Use it for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u21	Well, look. Mrs Van Toorenburg just said that my colleagues always come up with an index with other legislative proposals. Of course, I do not have to brag about what I have already done in the last three years. I have already tabled an amendment once. Mrs Van Toorenburg was not for that. We have, of course, tabled motions. Mrs Van Toorenburg was not for that. I've already filed own-initiative laws. One is still to be answered in plenary and the other, I think, is in the pipeline. So I know what the possibilities are for MPs, but I'm going to bring in my own. I am not a member of the CDA Group and I do not have to listen to you. You are not my vice-president. Well, maybe the CDA's. As long as I don't have to work under your wings, I really choose how to handle political handicrafts. I hope you'll let me have that freedom. If that is not the case, we will have to go to the Bureau together sometime to see if we can extend your tasks to me in that regard. Right? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u22	I don't see much enthusiasm, but you'll have to discuss that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u23	I look forward to answering the two or three questions I have asked for my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u24	Fine. Thank you for your input. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u25	The next item is the continuation of the debate on what I call the amended Bibob Act. We need the first term from the government. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Bibob Act, as you rightly point out, is an important part of the efforts to combat undermining crime for the Cabinet. These efforts consist of a large number of laws, and of legislative proposals that are still pending. In addition, there are investments in the criminal justice chain and in the 'packing agencies', so to speak. And they consist of preventing that undermining crime. That Bibob plays an important role in this, you will see every day in the newspaper and in the other media. With Bibob, the government prevents unintended criminal activities from being facilitated by the government itself through the licensing system. But as I said, this is part of a range of laws that have already been passed over the past two and a half years, legislative proposals that are still pending and additional resources that have been deployed, such as the 291 million structural for police growth. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the questions asked. I start with a number of questions about the implementation of the law. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked if I am in conversation with the VNG to see how we can help municipalities. Which municipalities are doing well and which municipalities are doing nothing? I believe that ensuring an adequate level of knowledge is an ongoing process. You can always talk to me if I'm behind it. The National Bureau of Bibob has the statutory task of informing and advising administrative bodies. In this context, the Bibob National Bureau provides courses, presentations and workshops on the application. And the agency really does act as a helpdesk. That works well. Municipalities are also affiliated with the RIEC's, Regional Information and Expertise Centres, which provide support for the implementation of the Bibob Act. And the special thing about these RIECs is, of course, that they also release regional undermining images. So if municipalities in the region managed to avoid all that information, courses, help, helpdesks, they would still be able to see exactly what is going on in these regional undermining images in their municipality or in neighbouring municipalities. But I hope to have made it clear that I am also in regular conversation with the VNG and will continue to see how that goes. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked for something important in the context of this implementation. She asked: is it allowed that the Bibob investigator and the licence holder are the same person? Yes, the legal system allows that. Of course, this also has to do with the fact that it is not always possible for municipalities to do so, even in terms of expertise, unless we are talking about very large municipalities. The quality and independence of Bibob research or the granting of authorisation should certainly not be hindered. For municipalities can guarantee this quality and independence in other ways, for example by having the file checked by a colleague or a superior of the Bibob researcher, or by the person examining whether other conditions for authorisation are met. That internal organization is up to the municipality itself. The Bibob National Bureau also advises municipalities on this issue. The Bureau advises on how municipalities can organise this in a good way. And, of course, we have to deal with this law simply how a municipality is administratively set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u27	I think it's very vulnerable. Of course, they can be called upon, and they can organise a four-way principle in a different way, but they don't have to. And I'm still getting signals from several municipalities that are seriously worried about that. Would the Minister like to take a serious look at this again, even with the National Bureau of Bibob? What could we possibly do about this to make it more compelling, so that people don't have that double function? How can we do that without everything being rigged around it, something the Minister rightly points out? I am very afraid that otherwise it will be too vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u28	I think it is a good point just to ask the National Bureau of Bibob if it can make some sort of standard protocol or model protocol in order to be able to check it properly by municipality. I'll get the Bibob National Bureau working on that. Mr Dekker or I shall come back to that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Den Boer had the question of how to prevent that relocation. Well, then I'm actually getting to the point of real estate transactions. Applying the Bibob Act is a discretionary power of the administrative bodies. Then you can indeed offer local customization within the balancing frameworks of the law. With the amendment of the law, the National Bureau of Bibob is given a direct tip function towards those administrative bodies. The legislative proposal extends the possibility of sharing information between the National Bureau and the administrative bodies and between administrative bodies from the second tranche. So we are going to go one step further in the second tranche. It is a question of broadening information on risk conclusions and tip-off, but the right to tip-off for administrative bodies is already in place. In this way, we are going to ensure that administrative bodies are much better equipped to apply discretionary powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u29	Of course it is important that there is a nationwide covering network for the Bibob review. It's not just that they're better equipped. They must also be equally detailed so that all municipalities, and not only the municipalities, but also the water authorities and the provinces, can make equal and balanced use of the Bibob test. This question also came up a little in the context of the ports, also mentioned by Mrs Van Toorenburg. For example, you yourself attended that beautiful conference in Rotterdam. I believe it was on July 15th. There was a very nice collaboration between Rotterdam and Antwerp to create genuine ports. It is very good to emphasise this, but if we make great use of administrative instruments to promote the integrity of entrepreneurs and the like there, is it not at the expense of paying attention to integrity in other ports? Think of the port in the Terneuzen area, Vlissingen, Ghent. It was also mentioned yesterday in a hearing on euregional cooperation. Could it be that, for example, there is a waterbed effect there and that criminals think: well, then we go there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u30	That is precisely the beauty of what Mrs Den Boer also says about this balanced application. You will always have to look, whether or not in cooperation with each other, but with the help of your regional undermining images, at the question: where does this undermining crime begin to surface and to what extent is that? On this basis, the Bibob National Bureau can also carry out its tip function. If it is right, we are going to neutralise these waterbed effects more and more with each other, precisely because of this bill and later completely with the second bill. But, of course, we all have to... Well, "all of us," that sounds like... Well, let me put it this way. Everybody has to keep doing their thing, of course. It can't be that a port is a one-way street. I'm not gonna call anyone a guy. That's what's really going on, while port two is kind of in the middle of something like, "Oh, yeah, it can be." But the instruments are there for everyone, who can be applied in an equal and balanced way, and they must lead to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u31	I do have a follow-up question. That's where he gets a bit of a grip, because the minister's not gonna open the wallet anymore. The instruments are being extended. Yes, it is. D66 also thinks that this is a very good plan, but municipalities, governments, local authorities, local authorities have to solve it themselves. If it is a very small municipality that cannot open the wallet and another large municipality like Rotterdam does, then for the time being there is still a great inequality. Can the Minister ensure that the gap is closed much better as long as we wait for the second tranche, the national provision that is to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u32	Yeah, but then... I also went to work at the port of Moerdijk. Moerdijk is a small municipality with a relatively large harbour. At some point it is of course true that due to all kinds of fees and other things there are in itself the means, as I saw myself, to have a firefighter and other facilities in Moerdijk on the harbour grounds. We should not imagine such a smaller municipality as a kind of tar doll who has to watch powerlessly the criminals take over power. It's not that bad. By the way, that's the other side of the story I saw myself how the municipality of Rotterdam supported Vlaardingen, and Schiedam, because of the large business area there... Was that Rottepolderplein? I just need to think if that's it. I think so; the Rotte is of course Rotterdam. The municipality supported that so that Vlaardingen could be in the lead to really anti-undermining on that business site using the Bibob instruments. I can see that happening a lot more positively. If there really is a very small municipality with a huge port, which has forgotten to balance it with empty money, then I think that the Empire can always see how we might be able to mobilise funds in some form or other in other municipalities or help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u33	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u34	Rounding up. I can see, of course, that industrial sites such as the Spanish Polder.... perhaps the Minister meant that... and also small ports are extremely vulnerable. I do agree with the Minister that it is very good for larger municipalities to support smaller municipalities and neighbouring municipalities in the use of the Bibob instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mr President, I shall continue. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius had another question about the investigations and how to deal with them now in case of insufficient information. It is unclear whether research can be carried out into the origin of the money used to finance real estate. Well, it is possible to examine information about the direct and indirect financiers of the data subject, but also the method of financing it, in a Bibob investigation. If the person concerned does not provide sufficient information, the application may be suspended under the General Administrative Law, provided that the applicant has been given the opportunity to recover it under the same law. This also applies to the application of the Bibob Act, according to the law history of the Bibob Act. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few questions about the scope, first of all from Mrs Van Toorenburg. The Van Gerven motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u36	I think the Minister was clear, but just so I understand it perfectly: if I understand correctly, you can indeed investigate the origins. There are all kinds of ways to investigate this, but when it remains unclear, it can be assumed that there could be a serious danger behind it. I got that right, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u37	Yes. Then I come to Mrs Den Boer's question on remedies. It may, of course, be that the application is available at some point and that the decision is negative, because the information gives indications, etc. Then there can be an appeal procedure and then the applicant should leave his claim open to the judge. Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to the Van Gerven/Hijink motion, which asked to include in the new bill the inclusion of health care providers that people associated with terrorism are not allowed to start a healthcare organisation. The bill Accession Health Providers Act provides that the Bibob Act can also be applied to the accession of healthcare providers. Part of that motion is already filled in. The present bill also ensures that healthcare procurement is also covered by the Bibob Act. I hereby undertake to organise a meeting with the honourable Member of the government to make these two points and to bring them to the attention of the House. I think that is a valid point. We must also help each other in this respect. Mrs Den Boer was a little concerned about the five-year retention period. The GDPR is the General Data Protection Regulation, just for viewers in the public gallery and at home, which applies to the processing of these personal data. The GDPR provides guarantees, imposes obligations on the controller, in this case the licence holder, and also confers rights on the citizens concerned. I think we see that Authority Personal Data is strictly monitoring that compliance, including by governments. As I said, we will include the data processing period in the evaluation five years after the entry into force of the second tranche. I think I'd better give it my best shot. Mr. Chairman. Then there was the issue of real estate transactions and the port of Rotterdam. In the context of the approach undermining, the port in Rotterdam has, of course, the special attention. The mayor of Rotterdam and I are in this together. I support the mayor, too. Last summer, I witnessed that verbally in front of Mrs Den Boer. In June last year, the Minister of Finance and I presented the plan for money laundering. Under this plan, 29 million are made structurally available for capacity of, among others, Customs, FIOD and Tax Administration. This is aimed at money laundering, fraud and undermining, and this also focuses to a large extent on the port of Rotterdam. Furthermore, there is the draft legislative proposal for penalisation invading container terminals at ports and airports. This was consulted on 11 July last year. The opinions have been received and are being processed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u38	Do you mind if I rewind the tape to privacy? It is, of course, very good that the Personal Data Authority will monitor and that there will be an evaluation five years after the entry into force of the second tranche, and that general principles of the GDPR will be respected. My concern is also in the development of haystack data and that it also remains human work. That supervision is not only with the Dutch Data Protection Authority, as an external authority, which is greatly appreciated by all of us, but also in internal business or organizational processes. How will the Minister guarantee that those people who work at RIEC's, for example, or whatever, will handle the retention periods of that data carefully? The Minister also knows that the retention of data in Europe is quite a sensitive issue. That's why I want to know more about it. How can we guarantee professionalism and care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u39	Mrs Den Boer has already pointed it out: it is also human work. In the context of human work, I do not believe that as a minister I should give guarantees, because that would be inadequate for those people. Of course, something can always go wrong or be done wrong. I have pointed out that there is close supervision of the Personal Data Authority, which, as a kind of permanent data monitoring, ensures that if a mistake is made somewhere, which is noted first and then arrested, so that that error can be corrected, for example because certain data could be stored for a little too long by an error. The safeguards under the General Data Protection Regulation that are now in place already make you really paying attention and seeing if you're doing that right. And then there's still the APG that's on top of that. Of course it's a bit: the proof of the pudding... Normally we do that in such an evaluation sphere, and I just want to do that here: to see how that went. Moreover, given the experience gained by municipalities with the GDPR, I am confident that this will work out really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u40	So the minister doesn't have a hard head in it. He does have a fiduciary in that employees will be able to deal adequately with this. Let me ask you one last question. The GDPR will of course be evaluated one year after its entry into force. It's going to happen soon. As a result of this evaluation, new legislative changes may take place. I would just like to ask the Minister: how does he see that as a result of things that make us say that we do not think the retention periods are such a good idea on second thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u41	I am very grateful that I was given extra resources in the coalition agreement for a number of things, but I did not receive any additional resources for a glass ball. I have to say a little bit here: I am confident that these things will go well. We have that evaluation. Then we're gonna test it out. I find it very difficult to give a picture of the future here, because in the end the AVG and APG have also recently started themselves. Again, what I see, also at local level, gives me confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u42	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr. Chairman. Then about the extension of the Bibob Law and the financial consequences. The proposed legislative amendment does not confer new tasks on administrative bodies. The scope will be extended. As a result, the instrument can be used more often, but it is up to administrative bodies to consider the cases in which they apply the Bibob. Then I have a few separate answers to questions. Mrs Van Toorenburg had a question about the debinding or suspensive conditions. It is very useful to connect it if the advice of the National Bureau Bibob is requested only after the real estate transaction has been entered into, because then a negative opinion can lead to the real estate transaction being dissolved or suspended, for example. If the Bibob investigation is completed before the real estate transaction is entered into, these debinding or suspensive terms are not necessary. If there is no danger, or to a lesser extent, it is up to the municipality to determine whether it will be subject to a certain condition. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Yeşilgöz has asked how Mr Foort van Oosten's motion has turned out. Let's remind him: he is now a successful mayor of the city and Mrs Attje Kuik, still a successful MP, about mandatory screening of criminal records. Two investigations have been initiated. There's been an investigation by the WODC into the criminal use of real estate. That's already started. This concerns the nature, extent and forms of the problem. We expect the outcome in autumn of this year, 2020. The second study is a description of the current situation. In doing so, we are looking for possible tools to deal with the rental of buildings for criminal purposes. That investigation is in the final stage. I'd love it if I could send that to you before the summer. If we have these investigations, the cabinet will, of course, come forward as soon as possible with recommendations on how to tackle criminal use of real estate. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the appeals of those who feel disadvantaged by the administrative approach. If an administrative body intends to take a negative decision for the person concerned and it is a ground for refusal of the Bibob Act, the person concerned shall initially have the right to express his views on that intention. Then a decision has not yet been made. The same applies to a third party mentioned in the proposed decision. The latter is really not called into question by this bill. Further legal protection applies as is customary in administrative law. You can therefore object to the decision and ultimately appeal to the administrative judge. I myself like that intention. That gives everyone a kind of pre-objection phase, I would say, to give his point of view. Mrs Den Boer asked about EURIEC. She knows, at least I suspect she knows, that I am a big fan of that myself. I myself signed the agreement on this subject on behalf of the cabinet in 2018. EURIEC's mission is to focus on concrete actions within the administrative approach, not so much on the compilation of eu-regional crime image analyses. But the latter is part of the EMRIC project of the Euroregion Meuse-Rhine. That's the "E M R" from "EMRIC." At the moment, we are in consultation, that is to say, the police organisations of Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands, to see if we can achieve such a crime image analysis through this EMRIC. I will inform your Chamber of that, when that is the case. By the way, EURIEC works closely with EMRIC, so I also have a lot of optimism about it, I have to say, that we are really going to get a lot further in that. The use of the Bibob on the BES is a very interesting idea. That's what we're looking at right now. But at the moment we are also mapping out what exactly is the point and the need for such a bill, because of course we really need to dress it up. It also has to go through all the usual consultation parties. I would also like to say that not all the legal regulations we use here are suitable for the BES. Anyway, whoever's been there, for example to get his license, knows that it's quite different there, of course. At least that was the case when I was a kid. Then you could easily get your driver's license on those islands, if you didn't push it too hard, because you'd be off again! Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more cases. Do we want to promote the administrative commitment internationally? The Netherlands regularly draws attention to the issue of exchange of information for administrative purposes at EU level. The Netherlands is also committed to promoting the development of the administrative approach in other EU countries. I also see that colleagues in other countries, as well as the district agent, to mention a typical Dutch cottage, are often very interested in this. They often come for Eurojust, Europol and so on to The Hague, and of course for the KLM houses, but also to look at: how exactly do you do that, by putting that administrative approach alongside that criminal approach? As a last resort, but certainly not least, of course, Mr Markuszower of the PVV. He actually presented me with a three-in-one. That used to be a radio program. Actually, they were all questions about how to do that with local council members. Of course, I could say very strictly that this is an issue that has great links with the Constitution, and that is really an issue that I would have to pass on to my BZK colleague. But I find it interesting that he has brought this forward, so if you will allow me, I would like to say a few words about it, without, of course, taking advantage of the time of the other people present here. But it's just that a president of a political party can ask for a vog himself. One can also have reference done at the AIVD. I know that Minister Ollongren paid enormous attention to this in the first months of her presidency in the run-up to the municipal elections at that time. Whether we think that we should do other things is a question for a fundamental debate that we should have, perhaps in the run-up to the next municipal elections. But I myself am convinced that municipal authorities and, above all, mayors always play a good role in this. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you very much for your input. Let me see if Members still need a second term, very briefly. I see that two Members still wish to speak. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius has the floor first on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the detailed answer. I would like to make two more points. One point is about monitoring: should that question have been asked at the Bureau of Bibob? The Minister has said a great deal about this. He said, "In the end, you'll also have the regional undermining footage." I would like to give him the opportunity to consider whether they can then be used to see whether municipalities have acted accordingly, whether they have actually done something about it. Can we use it to monitor whether there are municipalities that are late or not at all turning on the agency? That was another question. I would also like to give something to the Minister. He says: we are going to investigate how we can protect individuals who want to rent or sell a property. I heard him say that there are two investigations going on: one was completed at the end of the year and one for the summer. I would be delighted if we could consider this issue around the summer, see if we can take steps this year, so that we can indeed protect individuals and help protect their integrity. Maybe we can speed it up a little bit, although I understand that we have to wait for the substantive studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u46	Thank you for your contribution in second term. Finally, Mrs Den Boer, on behalf of D66, on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u47	Mr. Chairman. I'm proud to be Van Traa tonight anyway. The conclusions that have emerged from his brain or from the brains of the parliamentary committee of inquiry have ensured that this law has been passed. I am grateful that at the time I was allowed to work as a researcher of the parliamentary committee of inquiry and that I was able to experience the work from within. I think we all think it is very important that we maintain an integrity of public administration, integrity of municipalities, integrity of governments. I am therefore surprised that some parties on the left are unfortunately not present tonight to pay attention to this very important law. I am very pleased that the colleagues from VVD, CDA and PVV are here to talk about this. But don't make me shed any more tears about Van Traa. Those were good old times, I'd say. In any case, I have a motion to encourage the application of the Bibob Law to the BES Islands, which I am now going to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the Court of Justice's finding that the Act on the Promotion of Integrity Assessments by Public Administration (Bibob Act) does not apply to the BES Islands;]] [[Considering that it is a challenge in the BES Islands to set up an adequate infrastructure for the exchange of administrative information in relation to a criminal environment;]] [[Whereas there is still little insight into the possible nature, severity and extent of undermining of public administration in the BES Islands;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether the Bibob Act or any variant tailored to the BES Islands is appropriate and desirable, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof by 31 December 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Boer and Mr Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35152-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u48	Thank you. Then I have another request for the Minister. He said that EURIEC is also doing very important work in his view, that it is good to work with neighbouring countries. You know that D66 is a warm advocate of European police cooperation, not only in terms of intelligence collection but also operational across borders. I would therefore ask the Minister whether he can send us a letter of progress for the summer recess this year, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u49	Thank you for your input. Perhaps it is a comfort to you that the President has listened carefully to you and, as a resident of the oldest part of Amsterdam, where the Bibob was first applied, is also well acquainted with the law. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister can reply immediately and will also give an opinion on the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u50	Mr. Chairman. I think it's good to put the points together. Let me start with the BES motion. I'm judging you, Chamber, because I understand that point very well. Then I come to the interesting question, the request for a progress letter and to consider the progress of that study by the summer. Now, of course, I do not want to fail Mrs Yeşilgöz by saying that 'around the summer' is, of course, a very stretchy concept. If we really look around the summer, we see spring and autumn, because they are around the summer. But, Mr President, before the interruption microphone is unnecessarily burdened, I will promise here that I will do my utmost to bring forward the EURIEC progress letter in the summer, so to speak. I told you, we certainly have that one investigation. And I'll tell you what, I'll send you a letter. Then you can say yourself: fine, let's talk to each other now on the basis of those two pieces. Or your Chamber can say: the other investigation will come in a month, around the summer, i.e. at the beginning of the autumn...................................................................................................................................................................................... But at least I'm really gonna take care of those two in the summer so that we can talk about this very shortly afterwards. If that's what you want, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u51	It is now very tempting to devote a lot of seasons and fine words to that. What I meant is this. In fact, the Minister says that at the end of his reply. I've listened very carefully. There will be two studies, one for the summer and one at the end of the year. I would be sorry if we had to wait until the end of the year, until Christmas, to take a step on this dossier. Because then we'll all know: we'll be heading towards the election. So I wanted to see if it could be brought forward. I understand if an investigation cannot be brought forward, but if the second study is finished before the summer, I would have preferred to have dealt with it before the summer. But then I know the Minister's gonna say, "But I'm gonna need a little time to do that." So I thought I'd solve it charmingly by saying "around summer." In any case, the answer given by the Minister comes down to what I would have liked to have heard as an undertaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u52	I am pleased that we have agreed on the limitation of the term 'around a certain time of year'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u53	Good. Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u54	Before we end up listening together to the whole four seasons of Vivaldi, Le Quattro Stagioni, I would at least like to thank the Minister for answering all those questions anyway, but also for promising a letter. As far as I'm concerned, summer is fine. But it's always a bit frustrating when you get such a beautiful letter just on the day you go with recess, and that it's forgotten by the end of the summer. So I would very much like to urge the Minister to see if that letter on the EURIEC can still arrive before the summer recess. Does he at least want to commit an effort?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u55	If Mrs Den Boer would like to forgive me, I hope it is Le Quattro Stagione, then I'm going to promise in return that that letter will be there by mid-June at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u56	Thank you very much to the Minister and his staff, the members, their support and the staff of the Chamber. We have come to the end of this debate and thus of this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u57	We're going to vote on Tuesday on the motion and the draft law. I'm closing the meeting.
