ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the amendment to the Water Act for the subsidy from the Delta Fund of measures and measures to combat water pollution, Section 35211.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, and I welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's about Water State tonight, isn't it? The VVD believes it is wise that we protect the Netherlands, the Dutch and their possessions from water pollution. Whether this is due to a sudden dike break or the breakthrough of a quay, due to heavy rain or thunderstorm that suddenly rises locally and lingers for a while; all this can happen. But extreme drought, which destroys fragile crops, is not good either. In 2018, we have already stated that we want to implement and strengthen the approach for the Netherlands more quickly, according to the Deltaplan Spatial Adaptation. Because if extreme weather happens more often, and if the damage gets bigger and bigger, for example by hailshowers, rainshowers, we all know about it, or flood of your village, then you also want that government to protect you. What can that government do? We cannot, of course, let it rain, but we can try to protect house and fire and property by taking preventive measures and by settling damages and, of course, preventing them. I've got it myself, I believe that last year was... with my own eyes in Meerssen, a village in Limburg, given what water can do. On YouTube you can find film footage of the village, which regularly, every two years, floodes as a result of heavy rain. With that storm, even cars float, and cliques float through the streets. Because of its location it all ends up at a crossroads in that village. You don't want that. I talked to entrepreneurs there, with homeowners, who saw all the water coming in from the hill through the kitchen, through the back door, and saw it flow out through the front door. If you're unlucky, it stays in your basement, with a mud flow and everything. All your woodwork's broken, your carpet's damaged, and your electricity's out. That's just really annoying and nasty. It's gonna have to be replaced. So these extremes can occur. Such problems can occur at any time, and we must not wait for measures to be taken. No one wants damage from water pollution and extreme drought. As far as the drought is concerned, I understand that the Minister has been in the Achterhoek for the past year. Can she tell us anything about that? Because we often talk about water pollution. That is very tangible, but of course this drought also has an impact. We like to hear more about this, because drought is also annoying. I've noticed with the inland bargemen who have approached us, but it's also annoying when you can't clean your car or you can't spray your garden anymore. It's also a terrible sin when you come home and see that everything is numb and broken. Imagine if you're a farmer, and you're dependent on the harvests for your income, then that's very nasty. As far as technology is concerned, we would like to make temporary funds available for measures to combat water pollution and drought. In any case, this will require an adaptation of the Water Act. Earlier, a motion was tabled under the leadership of Mr Geurts of the CDA, who was widely supported by D66, VVD, ChristenUnion, 50PLUS and SGP. They are not all here, but they did participate in that motion calling on the government to amend the Water Act, to make some of the money from the Delta Fund, which contains over a billion dollars, available to take action against water pollution. That change of law is now ahead and was also in the coalition agreement. That's where this comes from. That adjustment is not a primary objective of the Delta Fund; therefore, you need a legislative amendment. That money comes from the Delta Fund's free spending area. The VVD would like to be closely involved in the goals to be achieved. We had a letter on that yesterday. Because we really think it should be measurable. The money should not go to hobby projects, but really contribute well and concretely to the fight against drought or to the prevention of this nuisance. Smart making, we call it here in The Hague. What can the Minister promise the VVD to do about it? The people in the country simply expect us to take the right measures. We can't make it rain, but we can adjust on time and use that available water as much as possible. People also expect us to prepare the government for these kinds of future developments and things that can happen every day. We are therefore also in favour of the legislative amendment, but I still have a number of critical questions. When will money actually be released? How much money are we talking about, exactly? When will that become clear? How can I be guaranteed that it will never be at the expense of water safety? Because, of course, that should be the primary objective of the Delta Fund. When it comes to the subsidy scheme that we are now setting up together, I want to know which frameworks are in place. Why should we do fifty-fifty, in the form of co-financing? Can't this ratio just be a little better, so that we mobilise even more money, for example, by assuming 20% from the Empire and 80% from other local authorities or waterboards, and trying to mobilise a multitude? I've also seen that there are water boards that naturally have all those goals but... I do not want to say that they are hobbies, but sometimes meandering rivers are also added, such as the development of biodiversity and all kinds of things that cause the drainage, which is so essential, to come back into play. I don't want to do that, so I'm a little confused about the co-financing that I've just been talking about and the opportunities for co-connection. It really has to be about the primary goal and about the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr Schonis has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u5	I think that Mr Dijkstra has also read the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. I believe that one of the measures for climate adaptation is to promote sponge effect. I just heard you talk a little bit derogatory about "meaning rivers," but don't you agree with me that if you want to improve that sponge effect, by definition, you will end up in nature restoration measures? Because that's the only way, unless you might know another one, to improve that sponge effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u6	There's a lot possible. Above all, it must be about the safety of home and fireplace, of people's possessions. All kinds of nature goals can work very well. A sponge works well, also in the shower. It'll be full of water if it's okay and then he'll pick up some. But you can also think of what is in the proposals that we received yesterday, namely the restoration of a kind of stream that ran somewhere earlier. Take Enschede, for example, where it used to be. You can think of "what was it?" An example from Dordrecht, I believe. There you have a kind of city park, so you're going to get some sort of water storage. Normally that is a nice room for manoeuvre, but at another time you can lose excess water. We know the example of overflowing parking garages and another way of tiling. So there are a lot of things possible, but it must be a bit physical and tangible and not too vague. I think you should always be able to justify how you spend your tax euro. And then water safety and protecting home and fireplace is the most important thing for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u7	Of course, dike safety and flood safety are very important, so we will certainly not argue about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u8	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u9	But climate adaptation is, of course, about much more than just flood protection. It's also about how to prevent heat stress and how to keep that water in periods of long drought, which we've had to deal with to an extreme extent over the past two years. It is precisely the creation of wet nature, whether in the city or not, as with the examples you mention, that also contributes to climate adaptation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u10	Yes. Well, I didn't want to mention the word "climate adaptation," but it's about making the Netherlands future-proof, resistant to too much and too little water. You have to do it in a good way. I think it's hard in this Chamber to define generically what works well in a particular situation. What matters to me is that we spend taxpayers' money well, that you physically see back what you get for it, that we also go to another ratio of who makes what contribution and that it works, so we just keep our feet dry. That's all I care about. I do not want to finance all kinds of side-nature goals, which can also be very interesting, with this money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u11	A brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u12	You have to find another pot for that. Maybe waterboards have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u13	I simply note that Mr Dijkstra of the VVD does not seem to realise that, by definition, strengthening nature or new nature can contribute very much to climate adaptation, for which this bill is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u14	No, we agree. I'm just finding it hard to determine generically what exactly works or doesn't. I think we should get as much back as possible for our euros. I think that we should look at cofinancing and above all not at the expense of water safety, which is, of course, the primary objective of the Delta Fund. Otherwise, we can make it up to all kinds of things that the waterboards do and that I sometimes have serious doubts about. So what guarantees do I get that it really meets that goal? A number of criteria have been mentioned in yesterday's letter, but they may well be a little sharper. Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands is a water rich country. We all know that. We also enjoy it daily. It also offers lots of opportunities and nice things. Mr Schonis agrees with us. But we're also dealing with that threat. If we want to live, work and recreate safely in the Netherlands, we just have to protect ourselves from that water. The most important condition for this is, of course, a good organisation of our country. It's about dry feet and as little nuisance as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mr. Chairman. Extreme weather conditions are becoming more and more common, and this calls for action. Municipalities and water boards are primarily responsible for taking measures to make the public space climate-proof. For example, they build and maintain water storage and water buffers, and do drought control. It's called "spatial adaptation" in the jargon. That is a new task, without any money, to put it briefly. That is why I tabled a motion a year and a half ago, to be precise, on 5 July 2018, together with a number of other parties, Mr Dijkstra, she has already tabled a motion calling on the government to amend the Water Act and to make funds available from the Delta Fund in order to take action against water pollution. Mr. Chairman. Our group welcomes this proposal, because it does what the motion asked. With the amendment of the Water Act, we are going to give an impetus to the implementation of measures to reduce water pollution, without compromising the necessary investments in water safety. And that's what's needed. Calculations have shown that in urban areas the damage caused by climate change could amount to around EUR 70 billion if no additional measures are taken. For the fact-checkers among us: the source is a report from Deltares from 2013. Mr. Chairman. I do have a few more questions. The subsidy scheme still needs to be opened up. When are we going to get it through the Chamber in the courtroom, I ask the Minister. Can she give a time indication of that? Mr. Chairman. From the consultation round, I note that the Association of Dutch Municipalities, the Union of Water Councils and the Interprovincial Consultation generally agree with the proposed legislative amendment. That also makes sense, because that corresponds to the Climate Adaptation Management Agreement. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the temporary nature of the subsidy scheme. The Minister shares our view that stepping up measures to prepare the Netherlands for climate change is necessary. But it opts for a temporary subsidy scheme because structural co-financing from the Empire is not on the agenda. These are tasks of local authorities, which have their own funding instruments. So it's an impulse from the Empire that has to be temporary. With the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but also with the SP, we have asked questions about this in the written examination of this law. With the Minister's answers, we as CDA can get out of our way. However, the temporary scheme should last about six years and should act as a flywheel for measures against water pollution. Now there is no evaluation clause in this legislative amendment. That seems to us to be a shortcoming. It is precisely because it is temporary and precisely because there should be a flywheel effect that an assessment is desirable in our view. That is why we have tabled an amendment, which has been co-signed by Mr Dijkstra of the VVD Group. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude by congratulating the Minister on the speed with which she has carried out, for our terms, a motion of my hand within a year and a half, supported by many parties, signed, and many have voted in favour of it within a law and within such a period. I'd like to compliment you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Water Act. This is a good thing in itself, because the PVV is also committed to tackling water pollution. It is only a pity that this cabinet takes the opportunity again shamelessly for a portion of fact-free climate propaganda. In the explanatory statement, we are once again thrown to death with the professional jargon of the Green Prophets. The word "extremely" likes to be removed. Thus concepts such as "extreme showers of short duration" arise; all in order to give rise to the suggestion that things are really very bad with our earth. We understand that that thought can live with people who are guided by all kinds of left-wing media and do not dare to come out of their bubble of their own accord, but that the weather has become more extreme is demonstrably wrong. The only thing that has increased is the media attention to it. Nowadays a code yellow is already declared for every rainstorm and windstorm. However, if we look for example at the top ten of the worst storms in the Netherlands, we see that eight out of ten just happened in the last century. So why "more extreme weather conditions in the Netherlands"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr Schonis has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u20	I'd almost like to say, Mr. Van Aalst, what an extreme nonsense you've got here. I have here, and that has nothing to do with left-wing media, a letter from the KNMI, which has been doing some measurements since 1700. Over the last twenty years, they have seen an increase in the number of moments of precipitation, extreme precipitation, and storms. Then how do you explain that? That's not from left-wing media, is it? This is just scientific, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u21	Please go through me, Mr. Schonis. You're asking me how Mr. Van Aalst explains that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u22	This is exactly what I meant in my text: there is more precipitation, but not more extreme precipitation. I heard Mr. Schonis added the word "extreme" at the last minute. There is indeed more precipitation, but to make that immediately "extreme"... Let's leave that to the left-wing church.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u23	No, Mr. Van Aalst, we won't leave that to the left-wing church. This is the KNMI, a scientific institute that, on the basis of a very long series of measurement data, shows that the weather in the Netherlands is getting more extreme. You can look away from that, but I think it would be wiser if you would just admit that we are dealing here with a considerable problem for our low-lying country and that it would be nice to start here in the very short term with an approach to measures, for which this bill is a good first base.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u24	I think I've started that the PVV thinks you should do something about water pollution. Just, we're not gonna let a party like D66 hijack this bill, which says: we have to tackle all kinds of extreme situations. That's not the point. There's more precipitation, but no more extreme precipitation. I leave the extremes to Mr Schonis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u25	I think this should be contradicted. The KNMI simply keeps statistics of showers with more than 50 mm precipitation. They see the frequency rise. This is also recognised in the waterboards. My question to Mr Van Aalst is as follows. Aquarius aren't really known as left-wing churches. In some circles they are sometimes described as "farmer Republics." If even there the need is felt, does Mr Van Aalst dare to allow himself to think that we have a social issue here that we must resolve?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u26	The social issue is here: tackling water pollution. I think we can agree on that today. Only it's bullshit to put it down like all kinds of extreme, horrible things are coming at us. There's precipitation, there's more precipitation. We have to deal with each other. But we're not gonna let this subject get hijacked by all sorts of bullshit that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u27	I'm just finding that the facts escape you when you stick your head in the sand like an ostrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u28	Yeah, that's how we know the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u29	I did not know Mr Schonis van D66's figures, but I looked at the list and it was mainly about abroad. If Mr Van Aalst doesn't believe it's getting more extreme, because it's always been there, does he agree with the VVD that the damage is getting bigger, just because we have many more companies taking the greenhouses and having many more residents in vulnerable areas, that can flood?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u30	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u31	The increase in damage should be sufficient, regardless of whether it is more or less, to simply take serious, sensible and sober measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u32	No, I'm sure. That's what I started. The PVV also just says: we have to do something about the water pollution. For example, we have noticed the mud flows in Limburg. We're gonna have to pick that up with each other. So we think that the legislative proposal is a good part, but we are afraid, and I shall come back to that in my text in such a way that the money goes to the wrong ends. I think we should avoid that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u33	If the PVV wants to go along, it should simply delete the word "climate" in the bill, because it does not believe in that, but it does say that it wants to prevent damage to the Dutch. If that's the case, can't we just vote for that law together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u34	Yeah, maybe the PVV will, too. As far as the word "climate" is concerned, the PVV has never said that climate does not exist, nor that climate change does not exist. That's something of all times. Only we refuse to implement an agenda that is simply completely unsubstantiated and which is presented on false grounds. Hence our point. So, yeah, doing something about water pollution is really good. We've always had the Delta Fund for that. Only we refuse to have it hijacked by left-wing parties for all kinds of other purposes, as I believe the VVD indicated in its first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr President, I shall continue. This cabinet based its policy on climate scenarios of the KNMI; it just passed by. You know, that's the club that adjusted the temperature of the last century so that the left weathermen can now shout that it's been so hot. These guys can't even predict the weather for tomorrow, but the government does take the doom scenarios as a starting point for political gain. If you run away with those doom scenarios of the KNMI, then you'll stick to what the KNMI says. So don't go yelling yourself that the drought is due to climate change, while the KNMI clearly indicates that the drought last summer was not caused by climate change. Mr. Chairman. Before the triggered left-wing people come running to the interrupting microphone, as they just did, to turn the PVV away as non-constructive, I'll tell you what we do want. Again, we do not want to spend our money on fictional doom scenarios but on the basis of reality. This reality shows that climate change is indeed of all times, but it is not nearly as fast as all those left-wing sustainability dwarfs want us to believe. We want, as our people have been doing for centuries, to be able to effectively combat drought, mudslides and flooding without these legitimate problems being hijacked by the left-wing church. And that can be implemented in a new way with this legislative amendment, so that the local authorities can gain more power. In conclusion, the PVV has a number of questions. Firstly, we would like to know from the Minister how she will ensure that the money does not go to these local authorities and is used for the wrong purposes. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister how the Chamber can assess whether this legislative amendment actually contributes to improving water safety in the Netherlands. This is in line with what has just been said, about the subsidy scheme that is not yet known. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Schonis of D66. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, Mr. Van Aalst, I think you're going to have an extreme chat after all. But we're gonna live to see it. Mr. Chairman. You wouldn't say it with all that rain from the past few weeks, but this morning we could still read in the newspaper and on the website of the NOS that there is a huge shortage of groundwater on high sandy soils in the east of the Netherlands to this day. The record dry summer of 2018 and also the not too wet summer of last year leave their mark. With the change in our climate, this will become a rule rather than an exception. Additional measures to protect the Netherlands from climate change are therefore urgently needed. Although the battle against water is in our genes, the Netherlands is far from ready for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u39	I heard an extreme pronunciation right away, so I thought I'd go straight ahead. I hear Mr Schonis talking about drought and climate change. He puts all that together in one sentence. Now it says by D66 oh so beloved KNMI itself: it cannot be said that the drought in 2018 is due to climate change. Are you therefore prepared to take back those words and note that drought is taking place and that we must also take action together, but that this drought is not due to climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u40	I'm certainly not prepared to do that. I have also seen this passage, of course, but if you continue to read on the KNMI website, you will find that climate change is increasing the risk of such extreme periods of drought, that they will occur more and more often and that we need to arm ourselves against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u41	We're not playing games here. I note that the KNMI says that the drought was not caused by climate change. Why does D66 refuse to record that and say now that KNMI says it's not because of climate change? We need to tackle this drought together, but it is not due to climate change. Drop that agenda and let us deal with the problem of drought. Is D66 willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u42	I think I have just made it very clear that Mr Van Aalst is telling half a story about what is on the KNMI website. So I do not have to answer this, because the KNMI says in the same piece as Mr Van Aalst refers to the fact that the risk of this type of extreme periods of drought is going to increase. That has nothing to do with a game of statistics. It just has to do with hard science based on long-term series of measurements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u43	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u44	Merci. Mr Van Aalst may even have seen my text, because I wanted to say that according to the KNMI climate change not only leads to more extreme weather, but also to a faster rise in sea levels than has been adopted so far. As early as 2017, the KNMI warned that climate change is happening faster than the Delta Committee's scenarios showed earlier. In 2018, the Delta Commissioner in his Delta Plan called for additional measures to protect the Netherlands from the consequences of climate change. If this does not happen, the damage could amount to EUR 70 billion by 2050. Mr Geurts referred to this earlier. The Netherlands will have to look again for its attitude to the water. Working with fixed water levels, which only ensure fast drainage in winter and water retention in summer, is no longer sufficient. We also need to answer new questions that come to us. How are we going to protect our coasts from rising sea levels and a decline in the country? How are we going to ensure that rivers can drain extreme amounts of water? And how do we ensure that those same rivers remain deep enough for our shipping during periods of prolonged drought? How do we preserve the characteristic Dutch peat landscape? And how will we continue to ensure sweet, clean and safe drinking water?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u45	I know that Mr Schonis is from Zeeland. The people there always have a dash for when it comes to sea. I myself have a Zeeuw in the group; you know it well. But when it comes to these three threats: the state of sea level, the rivers with the dikes to protect us and the heavy rains, where would Mr Schonis, despite being a Zeeuw, put the emphasis on where the most risks are?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u46	In my opinion, Mr Dijkstra has two Zeeuws in the group, if I have counted correctly, but that aside. It is not a matter of prioritizing where the threats are greatest at the moment. We need to take into account a combination of weather extremes that can occur at the same time. That is one of the reasons why, for example, part of the Volkerak Zoom Lake can be arranged all the way up to the Rhine as a water buffer area, in case there is a storm at sea and there is a lot of supply of river water so you can't spout it. It is often that kind of combination that can affect a very large part of the Netherlands, in which you have to look for it. You don't just have to do it anymore for a case of sea level rising or draining river water. It's often in a combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u47	That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u48	Look! Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u49	D66 stands for a climate-proof Netherlands. Last year, my colleague, Mr De Groot, submitted an own-initiative paper on climate adaptation in order to formulate a start on an answer to all these questions. Those answers can't be given to the Empire alone. We need the cooperation of all the governments in our low-frogland for this. So it is good that there is a legislative proposal that allows local authorities to allocate resources in our joint approach to climate adaptation. The question is, of course, what this further approach will look like. Previous success projects from the Delta Fund, for example in the framework of Space for the River, show that climate adaptation and nature enhancement often go hand in hand. It is therefore striking that in the explanatory memorandum to this amendment, the word "nature" does not appear once. In my reply to Mr Dijkstra, I referred to the following on page 7: 'In general terms, the scheme will include measures or facilities in the public area which increase the spongy effect of the city and rural area'. I think it just says here that we should focus on strengthening our Nature Network in the Netherlands to make our outskirts climate-proof, and the Minister also means saying that we need to create more nature in the built-up environment in order to make our cities more resilient to the profound consequences of the changing climate. Is that right? At the beginning of this month, the University of Wageningen published a sketch of how the Netherlands could emerge in 100 years' time. They sketch the image before 2120 and that consists of a robust coastal protection by increasing the dune area. By giving more space to rivers, the hinterland is protected from high tide. This often happens in the form of a long ribbon of wet nature. Can the Minister give a look at how she is working together with the Delta Commissioner or will she continue to develop this exploration of the University of Wageningen? Will municipalities and provinces also be involved? The essence of this legislative amendment is that municipalities and provinces can, through a grant from the Delta Fund, give an impetus to the climate-proofing of public space. The conditions under which these so-called impulse funds are provided are not yet clear. Can the Minister clarify this a little bit? Is nature protection in the outskirts or in the built-up area for climate adaptation one of the conditions to be laid down? I suspect so, because how else are we going to achieve the sponge effect mentioned by the Minister? I'd like to hear the Minister confirm it. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude and do so entirely in the style of greats like Cicero and Marianne Thieme: as a Zeeuw and as a democrat I remain of the opinion that the secured seats in the waterboards should be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you. Then I look at Mr Moorlag and I see that he is already standing up for his first term contribution on behalf of the Labour Party. Mr. Schonis, I wonder if this is going to be a new tradition. We're gonna follow it! Go ahead, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The risk of heavy showers is increasing. That is statistically proven, but we also see it in practice. We see streets underneath and homes underneath and we really need to do something about that. I will not make it a cliffhanger: the PvdA will therefore simply fully support this law. It is simply a good thing that the scope of the Delta Fund is extended and that fellow governments are helped to tackle the water pollution. Mr Dijkstra rightly stated that protecting the body and well by the government is a core task of the government. Even in the most liberal night watchman state, that is the case. But what also counts for the PvdA is that usually the chance of laminate getting wet is greater than the chance of solid parquet getting wet. In particular, the residential areas in the peat bogs are more likely to be affected by water pollution than the residential areas located on the higher sandy soils. So the people with the least capacity are at greatest risk and that problem needs to be addressed. I also appreciate the fact that Mr Geurts has given an impetus to this motion, which has been widely supported. The present amendment, which the PvdA will agree to, raises a number of questions. Firstly, I would like to hear how these subsidies are awarded. There will have to be criteria for this and my question is whether the Minister intends to do so in consultation with the co-governments. I think that, from the point of view of good intergovernmental relations, it will have to be a supported subsidy framework. My second question to the Minister is whether she would like to be aware of those municipalities which are less well-off. Mr Dijkstra said: could you not bring that ratio to 20/80? I understand that question, but it should not be the case that the problems of local residents who are less well-off and who have less co-financing space are not being addressed. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to discuss this with the co-governments and whether she would like to pay attention to it. My third point is that priority must be given to eliminating the risks of housing collapse. That really affects people's privacy very deeply. It's of a different order than a traffic tunnel that goes under once and that's why you have to detour. That's all tricky, but if your furniture gets wet, it really deserves a little more urgency. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to do so. I do not go as far as Mr Dijkstra when he says: you should not spend it on the sponge effect and nature. Sometimes it can help if you make the sponge effect or storage capacity a little bigger upstream. This may also reduce the risk in residential areas. I also do not want to undermine the retention of the pride, mountains and then drain. Mr. Chairman. I hope, in particular, that the Minister will be able to make a firm commitment to establishing that framework with the co-governments and that priority will be given to combating damage and nuisance to citizens. I was considering tabling a motion on this in the second term, but I will not be able to do so, simply because I have to be in Berlin tomorrow around 11 o'clock or so. I was going to take the train. That is still possible, if I get on the train in East Friesland tomorrow morning at 6.30 a.m., because from the Netherlands, from The Hague, that is not possible. I will therefore have to take the train of no later than 21.33 hours tonight to arrive in East Groningen on time so that I can get on the train to Leer tomorrow morning. I will not therefore make use of my second-term speaking time, Mr President, but I would like to use my speaking time for the following. Citizens should not be burdened with flying shame, but perhaps we should burden ourselves with policy shame or government shame, because it is a bloody shame that we are not doing any more of these HSL connections and that we need to go to Berlin by cart tracks. It's a little out of order, but you should consider it a cri de coeur, chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u52	I can tell you that with the substitute griffin of the Fyra Commission next to me, you can say nothing better. But you need to come back, because Mr Dijkstra has a question for you. But he's gonna catch the train, Mr. Dijkstra! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u53	I would not like Mr Moorlag to be delayed, so I shall be brief. I would like to compliment him, because he is here, while he has other things to do and is about to leave us. I wish him a good trip. He is here as a party that takes responsibility. While this subject is quite important, this simply affects people's homes and possessions, I do miss a number of parties tonight that I would have expected here when it comes to adaptation. I want you to know that. After this compliment, thank you for being here. I would like to put a question to Mr Moorlag, the same question I asked Mr Schonis. You're from Groningen, if I'm not mistaken. There you also have the influence of the sea at Delfzijl, where they have to close the denominations in time, if I am right. The rivers of course have a little less, but you also have the heavy rain. Do you distinguish what you think is important in this, or do you say: it is all equally important; it is about ensuring the safety of people and property?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u54	When it comes to the primary turns, you really talk about safety. Then you don't talk about nuisance or damage, but you're talking about life-threatening situations. These primary conditions are, of course, a top priority. Mr Dijkstra mentions them at Delfzijl. I think that we have a wonderful example of a dike that has recently been strengthened, and which also includes linking it to the interests which Mr Dijkstra has just mentioned. That's just gotta be top priority. I do not want to prejudice that. But I understand that this extension of the Delta Fund is not going to affect this task, nor is it going to affect investment capacity. In that light, I think it is very justifiable that we are now going to attract funds from the Delta Fund. I would like to say a few words about my fellow Members, Mr President. The fact that one or more of these colleagues are not taking part in this debate may have caused them to leave for Berlin by train today. That could be a very good explanation. I have the privilege of living in East Groningen and I can get on the train in Germany quite easily tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u55	Finally, what do you think of the evaluation? We are going to free money, fortunately from free space, it is not at the expense of water safety we have almost heard. It's from free space. What do you think of an evaluation? Because if we're gonna do things, they just have to be measurable and concrete. In fact, I am tabling a motion in the second term and I hope you will be able to say what you think of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u56	I do not know the precise text of the motion. But I also saw an amendment. I intend to advise my group to support that amendment. It seems to me to be a very good thing to periodically evaluate your policy and to consider whether such a temporary arrangement should become structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u57	Thank you. Have a good trip. We have come to the end of the Chamber's input into the debate. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes. After that, the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u58	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is always nice to be able to start receiving compliments. It is very nice that all Members of Parliament have actually indicated that they are pleased that this bill is already in place. I feel broad support for this bill and that is, of course, a great start. Thanks to the MPs for that, then. I will go through the questions that still remain about this bill, not quite in the order of the speaker, because most of them have appointed the same subjects. Mr Dijkstra asked at the beginning: you were also in the Achterhoek, what about the drought there? I won't go through my entire work visit with you here. I have not only been in the Achterhoek, but also in other places on the dry sandy soils, for example in Brabant and in Limburg. You can see that this drought has had a very big impact over the past year. You can see that both farmers and nature park managers have the tears high because they see for the second year in a row that there is an enormous amount of damage. There's been damage to crops. I remember an farmer showing a piece of corn that could be irrigated. That piece was of the normal length we all know from the corn fields in the summer. But he also showed a piece of corn from where he couldn't. Because in those parts of the Netherlands you can't feed water from the rivers; you really have to get it from the rain there. When you see some pathetic little thing barely a meter high where no corn cob can be found, the tears jump into your eyes. Of course, that's very exemplary. You see all kinds of pools and so on that have been built with great care and love by land managers just lying dry. That has been an extra encouragement, a second wake-up call to get to work on this seriously. If your point is that there is not only water pollution but also water shortage, that is true. That's the whole story of climate-proofing. Then you must be prepared for both too much and too little. We are champions in water drainage and it is now important that we also become champions in water retention. I shall return to Mr Schonis' sponge in a moment. Mr Dijkstra asked whether it was not unprecedented until recently. That's right. I can tell you that when I started as a minister, there was nothing in my report about drought at all. It really totally surprised us in 2018, but also totally that it could be so serious. You will remember that I even had to hire tankers that were ready in the IJsselmeer because the chloride content at Andijk would be too high and that we had to maintain the supply of drinking water in the Kop van Noord-Holland. The 46 recommendations that came out of the Policy Table Dryness case have all come your way. With all the parties that are active in this, we are going to work on this very hard. Coming back after a couple of weeks, I think I missed you guys anyway. We are discussing again: is climate change coming or not, what about the KNMI and so on? I would like to stress once again that I belong to the hard core of the KNMI supporters' association and that I am insanely proud of the KNMI and of everything they do. I can report that within the Global Center on Adaptation I may also be in contact with the World Meteorological Organization. If you see how well-written our Dutch KNMI is, we can all be very proud of that. If you see what these measurements are doing, even with the well-known instruments that hang with the satellites in space, OMI and Tropomi, then we can be insanely proud of them all. So let's be that one. I count my blessings. Everyone agrees that we must at least find solutions to water pollution and water shortages. Hence the subsidy scheme. You've actually asked all these questions about that. In fact, you all say in different ways: "The tax euros must be well spent. We shouldn't do that for things that don't pay off. It really has to contribute to the goals. How are you going to guarantee that?" An important question, not only from Mr Moorlag, who is now gone, but also from others: how do you deal with the co-governments? Of course, we do so in good consultation with the fellow governments. Together with these co-governments, we have concluded the Climate Adaptation Governance Agreement. Together with the IPO, VNG and the Union of Water Boards, we are at the table to see how we can do this in a good way. I cannot, therefore, go into the question of subsidy rates, different criteria and so on. When entering into the administrative agreement, we agreed that all municipalities should be able to participate and that it should not be the case that, so to speak, a very limited number of municipalities that happen to be ahead of the whole budget can already pay off. That was an important wish, especially from the Union of Water Councils. For example, we have agreed on a number of criteria, the effects of which are now being taken together. Of course, the basic rule is that it must be effective and effective. Some of you have also mentioned the urgency: it is very important that people's homes do not go under. That is, of course, true. You know we've asked all the municipalities to do a stress test. On the territory of the whole of the Netherlands, therefore, a map has been made of exactly where the vulnerable areas are located. Then we come to the stage of the risk dialogues, where you go round the table with each other to see what is most important and what measures you could take best. Of course, this is about housing, but I can also imagine that, for example, a hospital is a vulnerable place. That shouldn't go under either. All these different considerations just belong in those risk dialogues. What effective measures you need to take is, of course, very territorial. It doesn't matter if you're sitting with your congregation on the dry sandy soil or if you're in an area where salinization is much more of a problem. So that really is something that needs regional customization. We'll keep our finger on the pulse with those local authorities. Of course, we've already set very basic rules. If, fortunately, a municipality has not yet done a stress test, all municipalities have actually done so, it is also not eligible for money. It must all be well-founded, because we want the money really to be spent on the purpose for which it is intended. There is, of course, a very good incentive for these local authorities to want to do the same, if only because it is co-financing. They must also put their own money into it, so they do not benefit from spending it on possible bullshit. Mr Schonis asked whether nature could be used for the sponge effect. Of course, this can be a very good tool in a number of areas. We have successful Space for the River projects. This can of course be done on a small scale in space for the stream or space for the ditch. I'm just gonna make it homey and close. Of course, that can also help to hold water. Mr Dijkstra asked about the work visit in the Achterhoek. I think they were very creative there. The farmers had thought that if you push a skippy ball in those little waterways, you can hold water for longer in those ditches in a simple way. Those are things that don't have to cost a lot at all. In some areas, you might need to build a larger water storage facility. In urban areas you might come to something like that happened in my city of Rotterdam, with a beautiful square as water storage that can be filled with water at the time of heavy rain. There are all kinds of possibilities to come up with. Nature can also play an important role in reducing heat stress. Within the city, it often helps a lot if there are more watercourses. Increasingly, all kinds of canals and singles that are muffled are broken open again. You can plant trees that make the water more secure. That also gives more cooling. There are just a lot of different possibilities. That is also the incredibly nice thing about this policy area. Everywhere you go, I've been to Enschede and in Arnhem you can see that people themselves are very creative. I will give you one example and then I will stop, otherwise it will be very late tonight. Somewhere between two houses there was a strip where no one could walk through, say a hole between two houses. They shut it down, and that's a water shelter now, too. Very creative. People just figured it out themselves. That's a very nice alternative to the rainton. So people are incredibly creative, inventing things and thinking along with them. That is also important: that we not only do it with those fellow governments, but also just with the people in their own garden.................................................................................................................................................. And don't forget the business areas, where there's a lot to do. We all have to do it together. We have good consultations with the co-governments. It is not customary to give priority to a subsidy scheme. Then it's all gonna take way too long. But I am of course happy to inform you about the conversations with the domes as soon as we have completed them. At least that should work for the general consultation Water, I can imagine. The co-governments will want to do this very carefully with us. I will inform you as soon as we are out or as much sooner as possible. The resources for the incentive scheme will then be included in the draft budget for 2021 of the Delta Fund, as will all other parts. So that's just offered in one total package. We can then talk about this autumn, as usual. It must never be at the expense of water safety. Totally. I do not really have much to add to that. That's just the way it is. Then Mr Schonis talked about the WUR and how we want to deal with it. Over the next few years, we will have to continue to invest in further research and knowledge development in order to properly assess the consequences of sea level rises as well as the shift from glacier rivers to rain rivers. The Delta Commissioner is also explicitly working on this. Findings will also lead, where necessary, to the adaptation of the current strategy, which, of course, will also be based on the opinions of the KNMI, through the IPCC reports. I will be happy to include the plan of the WUR. I think they already are, but I'll check it out, make sure it's taken away. Yes, Mr President, I think I have had the most important points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u60	Unless you have something to say about Mr Moorlag's cri de coeur on the hsl.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u61	I wish Mr Moorlag a safe journey. I'm going over the railroad these days, too. Of course, I could have also told him that there is a lot of work being done to speed up the ICU connection to Berlin. So that's what's being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u62	That's it. Then he's still got an answer. Mr Geurts has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u63	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'll just call it in. I'm going on a plane to Berlin. Then I can leave a little later. Could the Minister also give an appreciation of the amendment in the first place? I think I missed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u64	Yes, very good. It is right for Mr Geurts to point that out. That's an omission on my part. It is a good point to evaluate this. I think it is a very valuable amendment, which I can say in advance that I can fully support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u65	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister's response. I'm looking at the Chamber to see if there's a need for a second term. I see Mr Dijkstra getting up, so I assume the answer is yes. I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u66	I thank the Minister for his reply, Mr President. Two motions from my hand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the potential damage may increase due to weather extremes;]] [[Whereas the protection of Dutch people and their possessions is of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to give priority to measures protecting homes, (agricultural) businesses, vital networks and healthcare institutions in the financing of measures to protect against weather extremes;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3521-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u67	Yeah, I changed her a little bit compared to what I sent around this afternoon. This is due to the answer given by the Minister, who also mentioned hospitals, for example. Not that they're terrified all of a sudden. The second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the potential damage may increase due to weather extremes;]] [[Whereas the protection of Dutch people and their possessions is of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to formulate measurable policy objectives and criteria and to inform the Court of Justice before entry into force and to carry out a two-year evaluation of the effectiveness of the grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35211-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u68	I've got it at two years. Mr Geurts has put it in his amendment to five years. It's probably a big amount of money. At Prince's Day, we hear that. As far as tens of millions are concerned, I think two years are a bit more exciting, but of course I fully support an assessment of five years in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u69	And even underneath, so that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u70	Yeah, that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u71	Mr Geurts waived his second-term speaking time. I am looking at Mr Van Aalst to see if he still wants to speak in second term. No? Mr. Schonis? Yeah, he's getting up. That'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u72	Thank you, Mr President, and also thank the Minister for his reply. I have one more motion to strengthen the point of nature and the sponge effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the explanatory memorandum to the proposal for a regulation Subsidisation from the Delta Fund refers to measures or provisions in the public space that enhance the "sponsorship" of the city and the rural area;]] [[Whereas increasing sponge activity can be achieved par excellence by creating new nature or strengthening existing nature;]] [[calls on the government to include the strengthening of nature as a criterion in the development of the eligibility criteria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schonis. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3521-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u73	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u74	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the Chamber. We wait a moment until the Minister has all the motions in front of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u75	I'd like to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a clear number of motions. There's three of them. The motion in part No. 7 is from Mr Dijkstra's hand. It calls on the government to give priority to measures protecting houses, businesses and so on when financing measures to protect against weather extremes. I would ask Mr Dijkstra to hold this motion because I indicated in my first term that I am talking to the fellow governments. This is part of the risk dialogues. So if he is later dissatisfied with the subsidy scheme as we have devised it, he can still object to it. I would therefore ask him to keep it in order to give room for the negotiations with the co-governments, but it is, of course, a clear point in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u77	You're asking to apprehend her. Mr Dijkstra will nod. Then you're going to say that in the microphone, Mr. Dijkstra; I'm very sorry. Then I can conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u78	I still have a little muscle pain, Mr. Chairman, but I'm gonna keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u79	At the request of Mr Remco Dijkstra, I propose his motion (35211, No. 7) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u80	Then I'll wait until Mr. Dijkstra sits down again before I take the next...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u81	That's it! That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u82	Ha ha ha! No, this is really lame. Mr. Chairman. The motion-Remco Dijkstra in part No. 8 calls on the government to formulate measurable policy objectives and criteria. That is, of course, always a very good aim, but he also says that after two years he will carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the grant. Of course, this is really about execution and then two years is really too short. So if I could interpret it in such a way that it would be an interim report in which we would inform the Chamber about the situation, I could give the motion judgment Chamber. But a genuine full evaluation, as stated in Mr Geurts' amendment, cannot take two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u83	Yes, that's how you interpret it. It's all about keeping the finger on the wrist. It's probably tens of millions in years one and two anyway. We want to keep the finger on the wrist. Of course, we can do the same in the budget. I don't expect a comprehensive evaluation, but I do want us to be able to adjust as a room if things go the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u84	With those remarks by Mr Dijkstra I can give the motion judgment Chamber. Then after two years, the Chamber gets an interim report. Then the motion to part No. 9 by Mr Schonis, in which the government is asked to include the strengthening of nature as a criterion in the development of the subsidy scheme. This is the same as for Mr Dijkstra's first motion. I would also ask Mr Schonis to hold the motion in order to have room for discussion with the domes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u85	I have every sympathy for that. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u86	At the request of Mr Schonis, I propose his motion (35211, No. 9), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u87	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u88	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-11.u89	The motion and the amendment will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
