ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u1	As usual, we shall begin oral Question Time on Tuesday. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. The first question is from Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about journalists targeted in Belarus. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very nice to be here again and it is also very nice that there are people again in the room. Mr. Chairman. Fair elections, an end to state violence and the immediate release of all political prisoners. Those are the clear and strong demands of the Belarusian people, whom we have seen put them in, day out, peacefully and guided by women in white over the last few weeks, and which have also come to us by all the media. That was in response to unfair elections by President Lukashenko. Unfair and fraudulent. Because it's a man who doesn't really stand for his loss, he thinks he's allowed to use brutal force. That is what has happened: abuse, arresting peaceful demonstrators and even torture. But he's impressed. And who's gonna stand up to that peaceful protest, the sound of those women? Not even Lukashenko, even though he occasionally shows himself as a caricature with weapons in his hand in photographs. But last Sunday it hit again. The violence seemed to take off for a while, but brutal violence has been used again. There's been a full attack on journalists. As you know, a Dutch journalist was also a victim of this violence. I would like to ask the Minister: what is he doing to stop the attack on these journalists? Has he called on the Belarusian ambassador, for example? The European Union has prepared targeted sanctions that do not affect the people, but those that violate fraud and human rights. That was two weeks ago, but we still haven't seen a list. How's it going? Finally, those who have committed human rights violations must not get away with it. That is also the wish of the Belarusian people. Now I would like to ask the Minister, because we are also on the UN Human Rights Council, whether he wants to launch an investigation into these human rights violations so that we can fight impunity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall then give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands strongly supports the Belarusian, Belarusian, population, which stands up for democracy, for the right to elect a president and for a free press. The Netherlands therefore also condemns the violence against innocent demonstrators and the violence against journalists, which Mrs Karabulut rightly calls attention to. This fits in with the policy that the Netherlands has been pursuing for a long time when it comes to free press. For example, the Netherlands has been running a Matra programme for a long time, as it is called, to support Russian-speaking press. We can never say in public who we support with that, but before we saw that horrible footage from Minsk, this programme was already running. At a time like this, you realize how important it is to have such a program running. When the demonstration in Minsk was so cruelly knocked down, there was an additional Foreign Affairs Council of the European Foreign Ministers, where the Dutch effort was to announce sanctions aimed at those responsible for the destruction of demonstrations and violence against journalists. Fortunately, that call was widely supported at the time. Last Friday it was supported by the informal Foreign Affairs Council. A list of names is currently being finalised. I share Mrs Karabulut's impatience, but such a list is also a legal document. It is necessary to justify why persons are on that list. People can fight that, as it should in a rule of law, with a judge. That is why this is done carefully, but the Dutch commitment is that they are people in responsible positions and that they are indeed those responsible for violence against journalists. Ms Karabulut asked if this message had been sent to the Belarusian ambassador. It's an incoming ambassador, but that message has been transferred. Moreover, at the same time, I have also transferred the support of the Dutch Government directly to the opposition leaders, whom I have had telephone contact with over the last few days. Just as Mrs Karabulut pointed out, it is also my commitment to using Dutch membership of the Human Rights Council to get Belarus on the agenda and come to a resolution there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u5	I am well aware that the European Union and this minister have acted now, unlike other subjects and other countries. I'm happy about that. Could the Minister perhaps make something more specific to prevent us from being two weeks later, when he expects that list of names for targeted sanctions to be published? I would like to be the first to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u6	The stakes are as fast as possible, so as far as I'm concerned tomorrow. Furthermore, there is no difference of opinion within the European Union. The point is that you have the basis of the names on that list waterproof, so you don't get killed on a judicial test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u7	Yeah, I get that, and it's also right that you pay attention to that, so it doesn't fail. Now the case that other countries have already implemented sanctions, so perhaps we can agree with the Minister that we will be informed about this next week, at least on the state of affairs. My second point is this. I asked the Minister to investigate human rights violations and he wants to do so. Like the Minister, I also believe that we cannot determine the future of the Belarusian people - they are doing so themselves, not Russia and not the EU - but that we must tackle human rights violations. Can I ask the Minister at what time he can inform us about the state of this investigation? Finally, what is the situation with regard to the use of the Moscow mechanism through the OSCE, through which dialogue is also initiated and further investigation is being carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u8	As far as the European sanction list is concerned, it will be public, so we can all take note of that at the same time. The Human Rights Council will meet in two weeks' time and the Dutch commitment will be to get a coalition of countries in Belarus and on the agenda, and to get a resolution adopted. You can imagine that other countries are trying to regroup coalitions in order to achieve the opposite. I have good hopes that we can achieve success there, but I cannot yet predict in what form and when. With regard to the OSCE, the Netherlands is one of the countries that has supported the so-called Moscow mechanism from the outset, i.e. the conciliation mechanism. I have also heard from them in my contacts with the opposition that they also support this route. The advantage of the OSCE is that Belarus and Russia are members, but there too, in the end, you must have sufficient support for that step. Once again, the Netherlands strongly supports this, but I cannot tell you at what time it will succeed. It is true that we agree on the stakes, including on this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u10	Can the Minister undertake the letter I asked for next week on sanctions and the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u11	You can always get a letter, surely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you. Mr Koopmans, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u13	Support for the support given by the cabinet to the demonstrators for democracy in Belarus or Belarus. We also see that President Lukashenko is spreading fake news there as if NATO were threatening to invade and to protect its people from it. What can the European Union and NATO do to combat such fake news? And, perhaps, where are the talks with Russia to prevent them from interfering, as they threaten to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u14	It is true that fake news is being spread, namely that NATO would like to intervene in Belarus. That is absolutely the truth. There is no plan in that direction. The European Union, through Mrs Merkel as President-in-Office, has contacted the Belarusian President, who has not answered the phone, at least until now, and President Putin of the Russian Federation. It has sent the message that the European Union's commitment is no other than that the people of Belarus can decide for themselves, and that there are no plans for enlargement, no desire to threaten anyone through the EU. The people of Belarus must be able to decide for themselves. That is also the message I get from the opposition and I return it to them: it is your freedom to decide, not the influence of the EU or NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u15	It is right that the people of Belarus should be allowed to decide their own future. The stakes are also justified. At the same time, we see that Lukashenko complains about foreign interference, including the Dutch. That's a bit of a sandwich monkey story, isn't it? This raises the question: if Mrs Merkel has called Russia and said "Belarus should be about his own future," what does the European Union say if Russia does not? What measures has Merkel proposed if Russia, as it has done before, wants to exert its influence in Belarus, either indirectly or even in military terms, in Georgia, in Eastern Ukraine, in all those other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr Sjoerdsma's question as to what Europe would do if, in this case, the Russian Federation were to intervene greatly in the situation in Belarus, is a logical one. At the same time, Mr Sjoerdsma as a former diplomat also knows that a discussion at this stage was not helped by putting it on the table: if you do not do what we want, then step a, b or c, or even military options will follow. Mr Sjoerdsma mentioned that possibility. The message now to the regime in Belarus is that sanctions are being imposed against those responsible. It's not without consequences. These people will no longer be able to access their money in the European Union and will no longer be able to travel within the European Union. The message to large neighbour Russian Federation is: through the OSCE, where we are both members, let us launch a mediation process that should lead to a democratic transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you.
