ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the Digital Government Act. Welcome to the Minister, my colleagues and all the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u2	I am the first to give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u3	Last night we received a letter from the Minister. First I had to laugh hard, and then I almost cried. It was about the means of logging in of companies and organizations in the government. That was invested with.. hold on for a moment, chairman......................................................................................................................................................................................... I wonder how that works now, because I think the UWV and the Tax Administration are organisations that have been making a mess of every ICT project for years. So how does it work in such a ministry? Then the minister is sitting there with all kinds of officials. There needs to be a new means of logging in, a very difficult, complicated ICT project. And then an official says, "Oh, maybe that's something for the UVW. And then we'll ask the IRS." How does the Minister feel about that? It was a warning letter, because it's gonna be very expensive, there's queues and it's not working. We will have to log in to the government later, but there are also a lot of organisations that can't even request such a login. One of those organizations that can't even apply for such a remedy is the House of Representatives. I wonder how the Minister sees that. Are we just going to have to communicate with the Ministry through the media or can we still log in later? This Digital Government Act is mainly about citizens. We need a new means of identification for citizens, a successor to DigiD. The minister says: for governments that is not easy; you know what, we ask companies to do it. A public means, namely communication between citizens and the public authorities on sensitive information, should be available to businesses in the near future. We don't know which companies they are yet. Banks, Google, Facebook; we all don't know. On the one hand, the Minister says that citizens should not be dependent on private resources to gain access to public services. But on the other hand, he's saying that we're going to ask private companies to create such a means of identification. Whether banks are so trustworthy? The Minister will have to review the newspapers of the last few years. And if our data is safe with Facebook and Google, at least that is questioned. Why is that happening? On the one hand, the Minister says that if a public means of identification is used, it should not be used in the private sector. On the other hand, a private identifier of banks, Google, Facebook or whatever may be used in the public sector. It is about the Tax Administration, about municipalities, about schools, pension administrators and health insurance companies. Such a private resource can then be used in the public sector. I don't get it. The Minister's argument is then freedom of choice. I ask the Minister to check with his fellow residents of Hegelsom to see if citizens want freedom of choice for a means of logging in to the government. Or they say: I want something that isn't too expensive, which isn't too hard and what works? Freedom of choice for a login? I don't think that's what a human being is waiting for. If this communication about sensitive information from Dutch citizens to the Dutch government is going to go through all kinds of foreign companies, would it be safe or would it be used for commercial interests? Well, what did the minister think? In the documents he himself says that some potential suppliers cannot meet the requirements. What are the demands? And what suppliers? Other potential suppliers have already asked the Minister for commercial prospects. The commercial perspectives! So there are already companies working on making such a means of identification for Dutch citizens with the Dutch government. They're already thinking about commercial perspectives. In fact, they are already so incredibly brutal to lobby the government so that they can make money later. And what does the Minister say? Yeah, that's a good idea, we're gonna let them in, and we're gonna take commercial perspectives into account. Mr. Chairman. If that happens, if our citizens' communication with our government is about to go through all kinds of companies, then you would say that there are clear rules. But what do I read? Detailed rules should be laid down for the provision of personal data and retention periods to be respected. So that's not settled at all. If nothing is arranged in terms of rules, I think: then the supervision will be good. But what do I read? The supervisor explicitly does not engage himself! In addition, the Commission has adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure So that supervision, that's not gonna happen. Companies will soon arrange the communication between Dutch citizens and the Dutch government. The rules aren't clear. The surveillance is not clear. And then I think: then it will be cheap because of the market. But then the Minister says: pricing can therefore be left to market forces. We're gonna have Google, who's done it nicely. That's a monopolist. Then I can tell you what's gonna happen. Is Mr. Van Raak of the SP the only one who objects to this? No, the Cyber Security Council and the Rathenau Institute also objected. That's what the Minister himself said. I also liked the comments made by the Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review. I will read them out: "Instead of the private resources now available, authentication for the public service could also be achieved with a single public service. The proposal does not define the alternative of a single public means of logging companies into public services." Perhaps even more important is that the Council of State, the government's main advisor, says: "Citizens' access to government is a basic right that should not become dependent on private parties." That is what the Council of State says: it must not become dependent on private parties. Then why invite them? Then why let them make a profit with our personal data? Why don't we have some more rules? Why not a more detailed review? I don't get it. Where did it come from? The Council of State speaks of a basic right: a public responsibility should not become dependent on private parties. The Bureau ICT review (BIT), which we have set up ourselves, says: if you leave this to private parties, then there is a great chance that there will never be a public resource. Especially if you leave it to the UWV and the IRS, I'll add. So there is now a law before which the government asks me to approve it. Well, I don't think so, unless the Minister can answer my questions. I don't get it, and I actually think it's just old-fashioned. I think it's silly and ill-thought to leave everything to the market, to leave everything to private parties, to have all of us and to stick to the banks, to Google, to Facebook, to give what to me, and then to make some kind of framework law in which things are half-arranged. I'm asking the Minister not to. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask something else. I understand that in a Digital Government Act, we arrange things for the digital contact, for the identification of the citizen for the government. But I also tell the Minister that human contact is extremely important. I see that, especially at municipal level, more and more things need to be regulated digitally, while contact between citizens and government is so important. Not only do I say that, but the National Ombudsman also says that nine out of ten problems can be solved if a citizen can just talk to someone, a decent civil servant, if there is just personal contact. Will the Minister prevent governments, if this law is passed, from digitizing and reducing everything? There must always be personal contact with our own government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Van der Molen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u5	On behalf of the CDA, at least I agree with Mr Van Raak's last appeal, and fortunately we have a minister who, in my view, also has that on his retina. I have a question for Mr Van Raak about public and private resources. I agree with Mr Van Raak that we should not leave it to the market, but I am trying to focus on what the difference is now. For citizens, we have DigiD. That's 100% government market. So it's not like we're doing that. Is Mr Van Raak's plea more that entrepreneurs have no public means? After all, they only have eRecognization, and that's private. Is that the point? Will Mr Van Raak also have a public resource for companies and organisations in addition to eRecognization? That is the only thing that is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yes, please! I just want some kind of DigiD plus, a good DigiD, but by the government. Because I find: public tasks, public money, public execution. It's very simple. That business with the market and the managers and the consultants and the trucks at the same time bringing money to those companies, I think that's old politics. That's the politics of the last century. That is why I think it is very logical that this law forbids: if we have a good means of public identification, then I would very much like it to be used everywhere. Just as good as driving by road: you can also drive by road to the supermarket, and not just to the town hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u7	I understand from Mr Van Raak's point of view that he would very much like everything outside the government to be regulated by the government, but that is a bit difficult. Can Mr Van Raak further underpin his feeling, for that is a concern for many people, that this law would open up to all kinds of parties in the market to enter? Let me give you an example. Let's take DigiD. In the meantime, we're in a huge project to get that up to level. Your plea is very bad: let the government do it all, but precisely with the current problems at the Tax Office and with DigiD I wonder how Mr Van Raak then looks at how the government performs. We can point to the market, I understand that sometimes, but let us point to ourselves, because we are now saddled with a means that is not as perfect as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, Mr Van der Molen is right, and that is what I started with, with the tears of last night about UWV and the Tax Office. That the government fails with ICT systems, Mr Van der Molen does not have to explain that to me. I've seen that for a long time. But I'm asking about the danger. If we, as citizens, communicate with our government and exchange data with it, what is the danger of this happening by commercial parties? That's very simple, because data is their earning model. Banks have already indicated that they want to market their clients' data, that they want to make money from it. Data is the earning model of banks or Facebook or Google. If you give them data, they're gonna make money out of it. That's how the bug is made. What we're about to do is ask the arsonists to stop the fire from coming. I'm afraid that's not gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. Mr Middendorp van de VVD. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is digitising and also the services of the government is digitizing. The Digital Government Act is an important step in this, because we need to work with information security and government systems to prepare the future now. This while legislation, sometimes more than half a century old, is in many respects not equipped with that digital society. In doing so, we must ensure that people and businesses, and anyone affected by the digital government, have something to choose from and that the cost of using that digital government is not increasing, while users, and in some cases bodies that pay it, have no alternative. Mr. Chairman. In this area, I need to get something off my chest right away. Entrepreneurs who fight every day to make their business in this country a bit more beautiful contribute to our education, care and the police by paying taxes. Now you should pay money to pay taxes. For the VVD that's a bridge too far. Entrepreneurs should not pay extra for making a digital declaration. Citizens don't either. That would be a step in the wrong direction in building the digital government. In the old days, you could also make a free tax return. Lately, I've been getting a lot of messages from entrepreneurs who can only report with eRecognization. The VVD has asked a lot of questions about that. Mr. Chairman. In the letter we received yesterday, the Minister states that he wants to come forward with answers to these questions in February and before the summer. It's too late for the VVD. These are entrepreneurs who have to pay to pay taxes. It is all the more late because eRecognization is also not available to everyone. A significant group of hard-working entrepreneurs is therefore excluded. I even get reports of letters mentioning fines. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Does the Minister agree with the VVD that entrepreneurs should not be treated unfairly? As I said, this is also a matter of principle for the VVD. Paying taxes must be done neatly, but to do so, you should not be charged extra, even if you make digital returns. Could the Minister in this debate answer this important fundamental question: will tax continue to be paid free of charge? If it's up to the VVD, yes. I have two further questions on recognition as proposed by the law before us. How do we ensure in the law that the rates for logging assets are market-oriented, I also say to Mr Van Raak that they are priced? Why not involve the tariffing in the law in the recognition of business resources, as in the case of civil funds? These two, civilian resources and business resources, are flown in different ways in the law on this point. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, as I said, the digital government is affecting entrepreneurs in the digital economy and citizens in the digital society. This law is a good step to make that digital government safer and more reliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Verhoeven has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u12	Let me come back to the previous point. I fully understand what Mr Middendorp is saying, namely that it is very special that entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, are forced to pay for their tax returns through the eRecognization system. That is just not something that is regulated in this law, because it is already in progress and this law has not yet been passed. So it is not on the basis of this law that that happens. It is done on the basis of a covenant concluded two years ago between Tax Administration and UWV to use this system in their contact with companies. So I fully understand the point made by Mr Middendorp. I am also very interested in the Minister's response. I just want to know from Mr Middendorp why he is bringing this up now and why he is making this point in this legal process, when it was started two years ago. I am asking this question sincerely, because I have to confess to you, Mr President, that I, too, was wondering how this came about. I'm gonna go ask the minister later. But since Mr Middendorp is making such a point, I also think it is important to hear from the VVD how she looks at these covenants that were concluded prior to a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Verhoeven said that he also thought it was special. For the VVD it is wrong to have to pay to make tax returns, I say again. That's one. Then there is Mr Verhoeven's question as to why it is being raised here. We are talking about the system that will help the digital society and the digital government in the Dutch market. That's what this law is about. I think I can say it very briefly. First of all, what we have seen when introducing eRecognization is not the way it should be. People, entrepreneurs are suddenly forced to pay for making tax returns. I'm worried about that. When building the digital government, we must maintain the principle that I have just presented on behalf of the VVD, namely that you do not have to pay to pay taxes. We must ensure that this law and the system that we are making here maintain that principle. It is not only special as Mr Verhoeven says that you have to pay money to pay taxes, but it is actually unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u14	"Actually unacceptable' is a very weak expression. Either it's not really good or it's unacceptable. I believe that Mr Middendorp says it is unacceptable, I understand that the VVD says so and we will see what the VVD does. D66 says it's special indeed. I'm saying that because you can look at this law through multiple principles. One of those principles is that if you have something to contact the government and you have to buy something for it, you don't pass it on to all Dutch people but to those who buy it. That's the idea of fees, and that's what this law talks about. That's a trade-off you have to make. My question is this. We can make the trade-off with each other in the near future. Again, I don't think the point of the VVD is that weird at all. I think a long way with Mr Middendorp; I have just said that. However, we do have a question of costs. The VVD is a party that always says: it has to be financially well arranged, the business case has to close and we can't just come up with uncovered cheques. If one party has hit me on the head with a hammer for the past ten years, it is the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u15	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u16	Now Mr Middendorp says that he actually wants tax payments to be free, but the means of doing so must be paid. How is the VVD going to provide a good alternative? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u17	Is it special, do I agree or disagree with it in principle, is it really unacceptable? For the VVD it is actually very simple. You have to pay a decent tax, but it's unacceptable if you have to pay for it first. That's one. Secondly, I do not want to hit Mr Verhoeven with a hammer on his head. It is good that he raises the financial side, which is always borne by my party in this Chamber. But I also have a question for Mr Verhoeven. The VVD is an optimistic and entrepreneurial tech party. We have confidence in innovation and believe that these logging resources, the resources you need to make tax returns, can be developed by the government and the private sector. Mr Verhoeven is right that they will eventually have to be paid, and that is also fine. Only the VVD is subject to the principle that if you pay taxes, in that particular case, you should not lower their costs to the person who pays them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u19	I said this Digital Government Act is a good step to make the digital government safer and more reliable. The standards that can be made mandatory still need to be worked out. Coordination and perseverance are critical. Will the Minister indicate in detail how setting such a standard will work through the AMvBs? Can he describe, for example, how safety standards are introduced in education? What kind of business is he thinking about? I think back to the discussions we had in this house about Citrix. Could that be something that could be arranged in a different way through this law with such a safety standard? I told you, these AMvBs play an important role in our eyes. I have therefore tabled an amendment to put it forward. Because my group thinks it is important that this Chamber is very interested in a number of points about how we are going to build the digital government from this law. Let me give you another example: the recognition of new civilian resources. On what time does the Minister intend to set this in motion? Mr. Chairman. People need to be able to communicate with the government in a safe, reliable and accessible way. When people use public services, the government must be able to identify someone's identity. This must be done safely to prevent identity fraud, computer break-ins and hostage take-overs. The current login system, the public asset in the government, DigiD, is not yet safe enough. This law is taking steps to make that safer. The VVD supports that. It's gotta be quick. Much is happening in this area anyway. There are all kinds of parties, such as IRMA, but also others, who are developing all kinds of new possibilities around personal data and identity. In my group's view, this is also a task for the public authorities. Because the identity of the inhabitants of the Netherlands, that is something in which the government has a task. Think about the Basic Registration Persons we have here, or the way we issue passports. So the bill regulates a lot when it comes to establishing someone's identity for access to digital services. But when I say it briefly, login is not your identity. Because behind the login are the personal data that determines you. So there's more. That is why I tabled an amendment together with Mr Verhoeven. We want to give 17 million Dutch people a real identity online and give more direction on their personal data, so that public services will not exchange your data among themselves outside of you, but that they will do so through you, so that more direction comes to them. Nor does it prevent letters from being sent to the wrong address, to the wrong address, after a mistake has been made, as well as letters of formal notice, which create very miserable situations for people who cannot actually do anything about it. I am actually talking about laying the basis for a digital passport, as you have always had a passport in the physical world and also, as in Estonia, the one-source concept for personal data. This is clearly something where we need to make smart combinations step by step, with systems that we already have. We're not gonna do this in a day. But this amendment is a first step. Because today we can take the first step to capture that online identity, the one-source idea in the law. Just as we have established identity in the physical world, we can also do so in the physical world with this amendment. I am aware that this is the first time that this kind of technological development has been incorporated into legislation for the future. Mr. Chairman. Good thing we're from a public middle-plus to a multi-fund market, and from procurement to recognition. The VVD supports that. Requirements and recognition grounds for logging in have largely been paid for at European level. This multi-fund approach will give innovation a chance. I see Mr Van Raak has left this section. We are taking good steps, because privately developed funds can also be used in the government. I'd like to ask the Minister to reflect on the following. If we built that DigiD and made it safe, could it be used in specific areas outside the government domain? In the physical world, you've been using your passport for a long time to rent a car. I do say that on specific points. Good supervision is important in this respect. That should be as much as possible equal to private and public resources. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to give the Telecom Agency a major role in this matter on the part of the public funds. How does he look at that? Mr. Chairman. This law is an opportunity to improve the relationship between government and citizen and the relationship between government and entrepreneur by making the digital government more accessible. But it all has to work. I have therefore tabled an amendment with the CDA to focus the proposed evaluation on the less digital literate, so that we can see if people are not excluded. I am talking about adding the less digital voting to the evaluation. Mr. Chairman. We're building a digital government that serves everyone better. The developments are moving very fast, but there is a hurry. So I ask: when should this system enter? Mr. Chairman. I told you, the VVD is an enterprising and optimistic tech party. So we look forward to working on this further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you. Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are finally discussing today the Digital Government Act, a framework law that has been discussed a great deal and is regularly cited in many other contexts. GroenLinks is pleased that this law aims to set clear frameworks for how the government should deal with digital developments now and in the future, because the world, and certainly the digital world, is not standing still. It's extremely mobile. The government usually bumps after that. The private market is faster and more mobile than the government itself. As a result, the government often misses developments or the government is at the mercy of the digital market. It is therefore important to regulate digital possibilities. GroenLinks believes that the government should be well prepared for the digital future and be able to respond to digital developments faster than is the case today. This is important, because digital innovations offer many opportunities for society. This will further simplify and improve public services to citizens. It also offers us new insights in many ways. Think, for example, of how we deal with our raw materials and how we can combat climate change. It can also give us insight into how we can spend our money as best we can. With all these insights, our democracy can be strengthened. Mr. Chairman. To make the most of digital opportunities, we still have a lot to do. We, too, as Chambers, have a major step to take in terms of expertise. We are therefore very curious about the recommendations of the Committee on Digital Future, in which my colleague Buitenweg is in, together with some other colleagues, of which Mr Verhoeven and Mr Middendorp are also here today. Mr. Chairman. Today, GroenLinks would like to raise some of the concerns that we have with this bill. First of all, the digital identity. We see many advantages of a digital identity: citizens can do business more easily and the system is safer than the current DigiD system. That is a good thing. However, there are concerns in society among experts, as well as at GroenLinks, about the privacy protection of citizens. This legislative proposal will make it possible for private providers to offer online identification tools to log in to public institutions, such as the Tax Office or DUO. The problem that GroenLinks has with this is that private parties are given the opportunity to learn all kinds of personal data from citizens. That's not the point. Public data must remain in public hands and personal data must be well protected by government and by legislation. The question is whether the legislative proposal, as it stands, provides sufficient safeguards to protect citizens' personal data. I would like to know from the Minister how personal data are well protected if private parties can also set up online identification tools. For reasons of efficiency and convenience, it makes sense for private parties to develop digital identifiers that are used in addition to the public version, but from public values and the importance of privacy it is undesirable, because the data in the game is often very personal in nature. As a citizen, you do not want that information to come into the hands of private bodies which ultimately have a commercial interest. For example, if you communicate with your health insurance provider, you don't want that data to just end up with your employer. For private parties, however, this data may be interesting to build profiles. Such profiles can again be used for marketing purposes. Mr. Chairman. So there's a conflict of interests here. For my group, it is clear whose interest we want to protect here, namely the interests of the citizen. The central question for GroenLinks today is whether commercial use of data by private parties with this bill is prohibited. Is the privacy of citizens really well protected, I ask the Minister. From the legal texts and from the explanatory statement, we understand that in the underlying AMvBs, i.e. general administrative measures, detailed rules are laid down on how privacy can be guaranteed. But why isn't this just regulated by this law, so I ask the Minister. In that case, we have clearly guaranteed the great importance of privacy for everyone. This is also very important for citizens' confidence in their electronic identity. On the basis of a previous vision letter from the minister on eID, we got the impression that he was explicit about this. Mr. Chairman. Another concern is the storage of data. In the present legislative proposal, it is also possible for private parties to centrally store personal data. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this should be limited to decentralised storage. Citizens' personal data should only be provided where such data is relevant. Not every party needs all the data to be able to do its job. I'd like to receive a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Another important point is the ownership of personal data. The more we will do digitally in the future, the more our personal data will also be registered online. It is very important that people can rely on their information not only to be safe but also to be correct. It is therefore up to the citizens themselves to direct their data. How is it going to be arranged that citizens are given the direction of their data and that they do not have to fight for a long time if data needs to be adjusted or corrected? This also means that, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, we should agree that all application software dealing with personal data should be subject to open source software. Because that is the only way to check whether the software is completely reliable and there are no backdoors to abuse personal data. Does the Minister agree with this? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks considers digital sovereignty to be an important development. We see that large tech companies such as Apple and Facebook have a lot of influence on digital innovations. However, there is also another development in small-scale non-profit initiatives, such as the IRMA Foundation. This is an initiative in which sensitive personal data are managed in the Netherlands and controlled by the citizens themselves. I would like to hear from the Minister what his vision of digital sovereignty is. I would also like to hear from him or initiatives such as IRMA, with which municipalities, for example, work, will continue to be possible with the advent of the Digital Government Act. I assume so, but I would like to hear that explicitly from the Minister. Does this law offer space for that? Mr. Chairman. Okay, here's the thing. In line with the concern about the use of private means of identification, I also consider it important to draw attention to the knowledge and availability of expert ICT users in the government. It is often said that the government is behind the market, because the market is more innovative and faster and has more knowledge. The solution would then be to make more use of external experts and of innovations developed by private parties. Part of me understands that. A more innovative entrepreneur can respond more quickly and flexibly to technological developments. But in part GroenLinks also thinks it is a wrong way to react. After all, the government itself can also acquire more expertise and ensure more self-innovation. Then the government is less dependent on private parties, which always have the main purpose of making profits, and yet it is always the question whether our personal data is really in safe hands. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. I would also like to hear what concrete steps he has taken to gain more expertise from the government itself. Mr. Chairman. Finally, although it is certainly not insignificant, I would like to comment on the fact that entrepreneurs are going to have to pay to make tax returns. Colleagues have already spoken about this. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is fundamentally odd that entrepreneurs should pay to make tax returns. This can't be the intention. In addition, it is strange that no execution test has been done yet. At least, we have not seen it as a Chamber, which is common practice in the case of tax changes. There are a lot of billions that come in every year in taxes. Then it just has to be well arranged. Mr President, I really will conclude. Can the Minister once again ensure that face-to-face contact, in addition to digital contact, remains possible for citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. Mr Bosma has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u23	GroenLinks has stated in her election programme that genders should no longer be mentioned in the population register, the BRP, so we need to get them out. GroenLinks has quite a hand in doing things that one wants to do locally. In Amsterdam, for example, the burka ban and the ban on cracking are not respected, because GroenLinks is in power in Amsterdam. Suppose GroenLinks decides in Amsterdam to change that into the BRP. Today's law is also about this minister's perseverance. If GroenLinks changes that in Amsterdam, does GroenLinks think that this minister should have perseverance to put an end to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u24	I thank Mr Bosma for assigning so much power to my party, but it is a like-dan question and the fact does not occur, so I will not go into it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u25	I see that you want to walk back, but I fear that Mr Bosma has another question for you in response to this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u26	If we have a nice conversation, Mrs Özütok walks away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u27	I'm right here. Maybe you should put on some glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u28	Yeah, I do now. Because I called you back. Hello. But my question is very simple. This law deals with the power of perseverance of the minister, for example in the field of standardisation. That's a very valid point. Does GroenLinks think that the Minister should be in charge of how these BRPs are implemented at local level, especially in view of GroenLinks' fondness for macramics at local level?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u29	I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u30	Okay. I'm doing it very slowly. We're discussing a law today. So far you understand, don't you? This law concerns, among other things, this minister's perseverance power, for example, in the field of standardisation and so on. Does GroenLinks think that this power of perseverance of the Minister should also apply to the way in which the BRP, the population register, is designed at local level? That's a very simple question. Try it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u31	This is actually a bit of a crazy question, because I think that these standards are going to apply to municipalities and other levels of government. So the question has already been answered. The Minister already has control over those standards. And if a municipality or any other government wants to deal with this in a different way, they should indeed discuss it with the minister. In my view, the law does not offer that scope at the moment, but I would like to hear from the Minister to what extent local authorities have control over these standards, whether that control is minimal or not. I am therefore looking at the Minister with regard to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I call Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. The digital government bill should make life in digital society easier for citizens and businesses. This does not mean that the law is simple in itself, because the Chamber has produced a written report and a further report, the Minister has sent three letters of amendment and the Council of State has delivered two opinions. The law has turned inside out and now looks very different from the law we started with. Today I also have a number of questions to the Minister about how this is going to work out in practice. I also propose, together with the VVD, an amendment to place supervision of the means of identification for citizens not with the Minister of the Interior, my apology to an independent third party. This is because the Minister is already given responsibility in the bill for his own login and the accreditation of third parties. In my contribution I will also pay due attention to the obligation of eRecognization by the UWV and the Tax Administration. A number of colleagues have already done so. The problems that this presents at the moment show that the digitisation of the government is still far from flawless. Mr. Chairman. Accessing the digital service of the government in 2020 is almost a daily activity for citizens and businesses. In 2020, we are more aware than ever of the risks associated with identity data, especially when private parties also offer login resources in addition to the government. During the past week, several reports have been published which also take a critical look at this law with this experience. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is a good thing that we do not simply entrust our personal data to private providers of means of identification. A common concern of people is that providers of identification tools could resell the personal data to third parties and that they could track and analyse the login behaviour of citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr Van der Molen is rather waltzing over that first point, which has now been raised a number of times, namely the issue of those entrepreneurs, the tax return and the question of whether or not they should pay for it on the basis of the proposals made in this law and earlier in the covenant with the UWV and the Tax Administration. I'm just very curious to know what the CDA thinks about that, because the CDA has been very keen on this dossier lately. But now Mr Van der Molen is not saying anything about this in this debate. So I'd like to hear him say: how does the CDA feel about having to pay for making that report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u35	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u36	The fact that you haven't heard from me about this is because you're interrupting me too soon. I'll have a whole A4' full of comments later. If you will allow me to put a little more effort into that, I will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u37	That's good. This was my third interruption. This was an unrequited interruption. I will come back when Mr Van der Molen has addressed this. Then he answers me. That's how it works, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u38	Yeah, we're gonna see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u39	I learned once that politics is a matter of timing. That's what it turns out to be. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, it is good to take these questions into account when dealing with this law. What if I identify myself later with a means of a company? So how do we deal with the data? That is why I start my input with these questions. Can the Minister state clearly what safeguards the law provides to provide privacy and data protection to private providers? Because we'll see that kind of care in the law. How is the Minister going to ensure this in the accreditation of providers, especially in view of the fact that you regularly hear foreign parties who would like to offer a login in the Netherlands? Is it true that means of identification already authorised in other EU Member States should also be automatically authorised in the Netherlands? You hear that assumption a lot, and I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. What possibilities does the Minister have to refuse new providers or deprive them of accreditation in the interests of, for example, our security or other risks related to privacy or cybersecurity? And how will citizens and businesses be informed of all these changes, which they will in practice encounter in their daily lives, at work or in their private situations? The CDA believes that the Minister is correcting something with this law that did not go well with Minister Plasterk. Minister Plasterk said: "We will only have to rely on the government in the area of citizen identification." I believe that the Minister has succeeded in correcting this: there are more opportunities, under strict conditions, to take advantage of the innovation that is also present in the market. I think that's a good development. Mr. Chairman. The government has released the system of procurement of private credentials for citizens. There will be a system of accreditation. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, this is a better way of doing things in a mixed system of public and private providers. In this way, we can better monitor and exploit innovation and developments in the European market. This means that general administrative measures under Article 9 will have to be as consistent as possible with existing European rules and principles. The technical concept is eIDAS, but of course we also know the GDPR, the regulation on our personal data, which also provides us with protection. As far as we are concerned, we should be cautious with too many additional Dutch technical and organisational requirements. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? Can the Minister indicate what additional requirements might be inevitable? As soon as the present bill enters into force, private parties' logging resources may be admitted. Have the preparations for the accreditation process been made yet? In what period does the Minister intend to start the accreditation process? Now there are national providers. In this context, for example, I have heard Mrs Özütok say that the IRMA app should be accredited under the new law. In European countries that have been allowing private providers and working with accreditation for a long time, there are already parties active. How does the Minister ensure that national providers enjoy equal preparation time for accreditation, so that they do not lag behind potential foreign parties? Mr. Chairman. Following the example of IRMA, I would like to ask another question. This app, which provides a attributes service to citizens, is increasingly used by the government, very often by municipalities, and by the semi-government, very much by the care. Can the Minister indicate that such an app, which was not put on the market by a commercial company but by, to put it another way, a social organisation, will not be hindered by the introduction of the accreditation system introduced by this law? Please confirm. Mr. Chairman. General administrative measures will impose requirements on suppliers of private citizens' funds. This is in any case a delivery obligation and tariffs to be applied. When we look at the law, we see at first sight that the Minister does not have this opportunity for business and organisational resources. Then why does the law on this point make a difference between civil resources on the one hand and corporate and organisational resources on the other? How can high-cost companies be protected? Can the Minister explain how, without this law, he is already in a position to intervene in terms of the prices of business and organizational resources? Because we should also protect entrepreneurs from unheard of price increases. The Digital Government Act also gives the Minister the power to regulate the use of means of identification for citizens and businesses. For many organisations eRecognization does not offer any comfort. Manyzzp'ers already use DigiD to log in because of their company. The authorisation system introduced is complex; not every company can make use of alternatives to eRecognization. This is unrelated to whether the government should oblige companies and organisations to pay for making tax returns, for example. Show this we don't have the system in order yet? How does the Minister look at Mr Van Raak, I have heard Mr Van Raak say, for example, a public resource that citizens and businesses can use? We don't have that yet. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Chamber received a letter on the obligation of eRecognization at the Tax Office and the UWV from this minister and the new Secretary of State for Finance. I am mildly expressing myself when I say that our colleagues Omtzigt, Lodders and Bruins, the spokesmen on Finance, are having a serious discussion with the Secretary of State on the eRecognization file at the Tax Office. Now we know from the letter that it will be awaiting solutions to the problems that have arisen and that waiting lists will be monitored. That's euphemistic. You don't monitor waiting lists; you solve them. According to the letter, entrepreneurs are concerned about the price of eRecognization. That too is euphemistic. It just says that entrepreneurs complain that they are being hunted at a cost. The letter's just not good enough. We see people who have to wait weeks and months until they can check with eRecognize at the Tax Office and the UWV. There's no time. I therefore ask the Minister if he has any insight into how long those waiting lists are now with the suppliers of eRecognization. If it can please have a concrete answer. The calamities test and the execution test haven't seen the Chamber either. Can simple bv's, for example a pension-e.g. or a basic right-e.g., not just continue to report with two-factor authentication-DigiD? That also has the required level of security. This is demonstrated by the fact thatzzp'ers can continue to use them for income tax purposes. I would like a commitment from the Minister in that regard. The CDA Group has also requested that the old portal be kept in the air. Now, in our opinion, this should also be done because the law and the lower regulations state that you simply have to be able to make a declaration using the normal means of logging in. ERecognization isn't in that list. I'd like a commitment from the Minister on this. The letter we received yesterday confirms the CDA Group's view that too hasty action is being taken. 60,000 organizations, from churches to the Cabinet of the King, do not seem to be able to get out of their way with eRecognization. That's insufferable. The IRS can't start sticking patches after causing the wound itself. Our colleagues have asked a lot of written questions. I assume that they will be given full answers to all these questions and that they will also be able to receive all the documents from the ministries that are going to do so. I realize that we should be with the Secretary of State in the first instance, but I also have a question about the roll-out of eRecognization to this Minister. In several places it is indicated that the Digital Government Act should become the basis for the step taken by the Tax Administration. The CDA Group does not want any further intervention from the Tax Administration "because the Chamber has adopted the Digital Government Act." In Article 29 (3) of this law, which deals with the entry into force of the law, I read that there will be another connection scheme, which will determine the time at which, for example, the Tax Administration must comply with the legal provisions. The CDA Group proposes that, in view of the problems of eRecognizing the connection schedule, the Minister should make a reservation on business and organizational resources. So far, we're not imposing any acceptance obligations on organizations. So we are not going to burden any more organisations under the scope of this law with what goes wrong with the Tax Administration. We are wise to wait with the obligation until the case Tax Administration is resolved to everyone's satisfaction. The rules referred to in Article 29 shall then be published in the Official Journal. I imagine the Chamber can see it first. The CDA Group asks the Minister to refer the regulation to the Chamber first. On both requests, I would like to receive a clear commitment from the Minister. I also make this request on behalf of my colleague Van der Graaf of the Christian Union. I would add that there is an urgent need to address the problems of eRecognization in the UWV and the Tax Administration. There should be a plan of action within a month, which provides clarity for companies and organisations. I ask the Minister to respond to this. That was my last question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr Verhoeven, this is your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u41	Yeah, I'll get back to what I just asked, and I'll take that down. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can I summarize Mr Van der Molen's answer in such a way that he actually says: the CDA wants a pass on the spot; first, find out how it can be arranged, show it to the Chamber and until then do not allow companies to pay for their tax returns? Can I sum it up like that? This is a genuine attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u42	No, that is not a genuine attempt, because you are trying to incorporate into that question a proposal made by my colleague from the VVD. But I'll respond to the point I've made. The CDA considers that the case at the Tax Office shows that the means of eRecognization is not sufficient at the moment if 60,000 organisations are damaged by it. My point is that we should not impose on other organisations the obligation to use eRecognization, nor should we provide a basis for the Tax Administration to stop listening to our complaints by adopting this law. At the same time, I believe that our fellow Members, who are really hard on this, should not be put in the way of us, because we are passing a law while they are trying to solve a very big problem. I have put forward a very practical proposal to the Minister and I have asked the Minister to respond. The starting point is that entrepreneurs should not have to incur costs in order to be able to pay taxes. There will be all kinds of differences and variations, but I think that principle is a correct principle; that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u43	We're not getting in the way of anyone. We are dealing with a law here and we have a concern that is not yet covered by this law, but for which there is a proposal to regulate it. You are making good proposals for that, too. The Finance colleagues who are very busy with this have not debated this law, but perhaps they have discussed the covenant in which this eRecognization was arranged by the Tax Administration in 2017. Mr Middendorp has made a point of this today. I'm fine with it, I just want to be clear where we are now standing as Chambers, CDA, VVD, D66 and other parties present here today when it comes to whether or not to let entrepreneurs, i.e. small entrepreneurs, SMEs andzzp'ers, pay for their tax returns. I also want clarification on how to deal with the cost issue. I think it is very good that all kinds of colleagues have done a lot of work on this point, but that covenant has been there since 2017 and we are dealing with this law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u44	I have already made it clear how we, as CDA, stand on that principle. I think Mr Verhoeven is getting over the problems with the Tax Administration and the UWV far too easily. I do not know why Mr Verhoeven has had to push back this whole debate to colleagues for a long time. I've heard that with others, and so have I. At the time that 60,000 organizations are duped in their contact with the UWV and the Tax Administration, that is our priority. I agree with you that this law will partly provide a solution to this, that these laws regulate things better and that we have the chance to avoid problems with eRecognization in the future. That is precisely why this law can also be supported as far as the CDA is concerned. The point I make here is that we have another assignment here in the Chamber, namely to tackle the problems at the Tax Office and the UWV. That's priority number one. This is an abstract law, which we are indeed discussing in the Chamber. Outside this house, 60,000 organizations have been duped, and they have just as much priority in the discussion about the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u45	It took a while before Mr Verhoeven also said that he understood the principle that the VVD presented here. He did just repeat it correctly, namely: you should not force entrepreneurs, but also citizens and everyone else, to pay extra to make tax returns. Do I hear correctly that the CDA supports that principle, which can indeed have consequences for the future for how this law is going to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u46	It's really weird that you have to pay if you want to make a tax return. I fully agree with Mr Middendorp. I did not ask Mr Van Raak for no reason whether we got into this situation because, for example, we have no public means of offering organisations and businesses. In my own contribution, I put that to the Minister as well. We as an individual citizen also do not pay for the use of DigiD. I therefore believe that we should look at the possibility of integration in the future. This is preceded by the acute problem created by a queue of companies and organisations applying for eRecognization. People complain about the amount to be paid. I want to take that complaint seriously. I think we should settle this matter right now. There may be some compensation for this, because they are now being hunted at a cost. I think we should certainly have a discussion with each other about the question you put on the table, namely whether you should pay if you want to make a tax return. Because the government is asking you to pay for the fact that you can transfer money to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u47	I agree with what Mr van der Molen said about the people and entrepreneurs who are now in trouble. I myself made quite a few comments on this in my first term. I have some doubts about what Mr Van der Molen is saying to me now. He says he thinks it's crazy that we should be paying for tax returns in the future. I hear him say, "I think it's crazy." But then he ends his answer with: we should have that discussion. In between, he indicates a number of directions for solution. He also thinks I am on his side, because I believe in innovation. There are many possibilities to use the principle of "not forcing people to pay for making tax returns" in the future. I would like to ask Mr Van der Molen about this principle. I'm actually asking him if he's on our side with that principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u48	I share that it's incredibly crazy that you have to pay money and then pay money to the government. That's very clear. We're not gonna settle that in this law. Exactly there's my reluctance. I think it is important for the Minister to be able to intervene at very high prices when it comes to business and civil resources. If the debate on these resources is held, it will affect other ministries as well. When we start applying the principle that we share, that means quite a lot, for example when it comes to the question of who pays the costs. Other colleagues have asked for this. I share that principle. I think we should go that way. I am a little more reluctant, because I can't really see one-two-three in which areas it applies or doesn't. We agree on that principle. The discussion will have to be about how and not about what we want to settle with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u49	I think we should talk about that. It's good to hear that the CDA shares with us the idea that we shouldn't force people to pay for making tax returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Van der Molen, you had come to the end of your speech, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u51	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you. Mr Bosma, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u53	President, thank you very much. When dealing with the internal affairs budget, I found that during this cabinet period, Rutte III cabinet, a law rarely or never comes to the Chamber from this ministry. But now we have actually received one. Thank you very much for that. Oh, that's so nice! The law dates back to 2017 and is actually almost statute of limitations. But apparently something else was found between the old paperwork in the ministry and the officials said: it should go to the Chamber. The law was signed by the Secretary of State for the Interior. That's funny, because we don't have a Home Secretary anymore. This cabinet's moving a lot with dolls. The rate of rotation of ministers and secretaries of state is almost close to that of members of the VVD Group. We don't have a Secretary of State anymore, but who's the Secretary of State? We only know from Mrs Ollongren that she has given up her duties and not that she has resigned as a minister. Her Twitter account also indicates that she is still Minister of the Interior. And it says on the Ministry's website that we have one minister and one secretary of state. Hey, I don't get it anymore. My question to the Minister is: has Minister Ollongren ever officially resigned? Fortunately, Mrs Ollongren's recovery is going well. My group very much welcomes this. Then my second question is: should she be sworn in on her return? I don't think so, because she's still a minister. For how is the resignation of a minister of state going? I quote: "The resignation is published in the Official Journal as a small royal decree. On Koninklijkhuis.nl a corresponding Communication of the Cabinet of the King is published. This is normally worded as follows: (...) The King, acting on a proposal from the Prime Minister, has given this resignation in the most honorable manner, with thanks for the many and important services the Minister has done to Him and the Kingdom." None of that happened. Mr Knops calls himself Minister today. He's also sworn in by the King. There's pictures of that. He has been honorably dismissed as Secretary of State. That's nice on Koninklijkhuis.nl. But is it true that we have two ministers? Does Mrs Ollongren know that Mr Knops has been sworn in? Has Mr Knops properly told the King that Mrs Ollongren never resigned at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr. Bosma, I'm very curious when you're going to make the bridge to what we're talking about today, the Digital Government Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u55	It's signed by the Secretary of State. I used to study Hebrew and read from right to left. Now as a Member of Parliament, I will start with the signing and then the rest will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u56	So that's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u57	Yes, don't worry, Mr. Chairman, but I'd like to keep you in suspense. Mr. Chairman. The Constitution, which is also very dear to you, I know, says in Article 44: a ministry is run by a minister. How does this duo job relate to the Constitution? We do know ministers without portfolios, Article 44 Constitution, paragraph 2, but Mrs Ollongren has not been identified as such. We do not know the position of the minister of established work. Either you're pregnant or you're not. You're either a minister or you're not. You're either politically responsible or you're not. That is not merely academic or theoretical. Suppose, as a Chamber, we are dissatisfied with the policy of this Ministry of the Interior and demand the resignation of the Minister. Who's gonna have to resign? According to the interpretation of Article 42 of the Constitution, officials are responsible only to the Minister. The Minister is fully responsible to the Secretary of State. A duo track means duo responsibility. Then we should not have one, but two ministers should resign. We now have a four-party coalition. In some ministries there are two ministers. An example: Arie Slob is Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media. He doesn't call himself Minister of OCW. The Minister for the Interior is responsible for the Constitution, the rule of law, etc. Can the Minister, anyone, explain this? I saw the movie Two popes on Netflix the other day, two breaks. Do we have two ministers now? D66 of all people made this up. The leadership of D66 wanted this chair dance in the cabinet and created this constitutional swamp. D66 was set up because of a state-law desire, namely to improve democracy and transparency. That party used to be champion of state-law purity. Mr. Chairman. Why are we talking today about a bill in 2017? This is often the reason why there is a lot of bakery behind the scenes. Usually when a law takes as long as it takes, we saw that, for example, under the Media Act, for years behind the scenes, there was a fight, or several fights, first in the cabinet and then in the Chamber with spokesmen, then again in the cabinet and with group leaders. Usually everything that's controversial is filtered out. That's kind of like making a cup of tea with one tea bag. Two cups is feasible, but then it becomes thinner and thinner. Many of the laws of this cabinet are the sixteenth or seventeenth cup of tea made with the same tea bag. That's why many of the law of this cabinet has been passed, and we're already getting so little squat or flavor. It's not even water with a tan. What happened here? I don't know. This law isn't about so much in the end. He's gonna need a lot of words to say little in the end. Entire battalions of lawyers have put their best legal foot forward to squeeze something out of those tea bags. To begin by complimenting you, because it is completely in Dutch. That is an achievement in itself. I mean that seriously, because the IT world is an English-speaking world, the Anglo-Saxon world. Every concept has been translated into Dutch. I am very pleased with this, also in my capacity as President of the IPC of the Language Union. There will be standardisation for digital identification. Good, but I'd say just take care of it. If Overijssel has a different standard than Limburg, that might be a problem. I don't know, but it seems to be. But just make sure you're okay. Why does all this have to be in a law? Why don't the government just take care of this? At most it should be some kind of implementation plan, for inspection by the House of Representatives. This law, and certainly the explanatory memorandum, is full of announcements from AMvBs. That's some kind of law light. Those are, in fact, some kind of intentions. So we have a law that doesn't have that much in it and then we have to do it with a lot of AMvBs that are being announced. Or the Minister thought, "You know what, I'll just send it to the Chamber, and he'll be an accessory if things go wrong." Yeah, I'm a little suspicious today. The Council of State also notes that the Minister has not organized the whole business, project-wise and is in fact very hardcore. I quote: 'The Advisory Section of the Council of State fully endorses the need to provide citizens, businesses and public sector organisations with electronic identification tools at a high security level in the shortest possible time'. And another quote: "In order to achieve this condition, one person responsible for management must establish these technical standards and be able to impose mandatory requirements on public authorities, with powers of supervision and intervention. The bill regulates this at best half-hearted. This is unworkable and, given the crucial importance of standardisation, is not justified." This is what the Council of State says. Who's responsible? Who's in charge? Who's gonna punch his fist on the table if this project goes the wrong way? Well, no one actually reports the Minister himself, because he writes: "The monitoring of compliance takes place within his own policy column. This is not problematic, given that in addition, compliance monitoring is carried out by the Standardisation Forum. That Forum advises the Secretary of State for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations and the Ministers for Economic Affairs and Climate and Justice and Security, whether or not through the Government-wide Digital Government Policy Consultation." Are you still awake, Mr. Chairman? That seems to me to be quite problematic, because what does it say? Compliance in the own column. What the hell is that? Monitoring by Forum Standardisation. Oh, come on! And then Government wide Policy consultation Digital Government. Go ahead. Government-wide and a policy consultation as well. Who would have thought that for the same amount of money? And then it is reported to the Secretary of State who is not a State Secretary, because he has just been relieved of his duties by the King. Instead of directing himself, this minister creates a forest of clubs that are all going to meet. I'd say, Minister, lay down standards, don't put on bran. But what does the Minister say? "A standard requirement will only be considered if it is necessary and proportionate to the functioning, safety, reliability, sustainable accessibility or efficiency of electronic traffic." The Minister must be familiar as a former military officer with the expression "failing to prepare is preparing to fail," but this is exactly what he is doing. On the contrary, the Council of State stresses the need for the Minister to take action and points out: "The Section therefore considers it important that the Minister of State should have sufficient powers to ensure that standardisation can be achieved technically, not only on the basis of this proposal but also on the basis of the further development of digital public communications. Standardisation doesn't happen by itself." In case the Minister or his officials have not understood this correctly, the Council of State reiterates this further in the opinion. "However, it is striking that no powers tailored to a digital system are granted." If I take stock of the situation, I'll find that the minister is empty-handed. His ministry is running a lot of IT projects and he doesn't even have the powers to make sure that all of this works out. Let's not be too cynical, but frankly, the government doesn't exactly have a great track record when it comes to IT projects. This ministry flushed a sloppy 100 million euros down the toilet to create a new BRP, so a population register that didn't come. We also see problems in the IT field at the Tax Administration, at the surcharge circus, at the UWV, at the eRecognization and at DigiD and that waiting list of 60,000 organizations. The whole of The Hague is one big cemetery of failed IT projects, but it's good to hear that this is going to work out. If not, all the Ministers of the Interior will have to resign. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. Finally, Mr Verhoeven of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start, I would like to give the floor to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u60	I'm glad you're doing that and I don't have to do that anymore. Mr. Bosma, you have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u61	It is rather impertinent that a speaker should give the floor, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u62	Yes, but that's how we know Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u63	I have a very simple constitutional question. Is Mrs Ollongren currently Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr Bosma has just asked all kinds of questions about this. I think it is quite right that we should think about how this is going to work. These are situations that don't happen that often. Yes, Mrs Ollongren is Minister of the Interior and she is being replaced at the moment, because she has temporarily laid down her duties, by Mr Knops, who is now the Minister-in-Office of the Interior. In my view, the way in which this is going exactly at the moments Mr Bosma has outlined, for example when he wants to send away a Minister for the Interior, is fairly orderly. If Mr Bosma wants to set this situation in motion, I wish him every success. I found his contribution to the law more interesting than his opening on the state-law side of the matter, which is very clearly regulated on many fronts. Mr Bosma knows that, but would like to draw up a smokescreen here. My answer to his question is: yes, Mrs Ollongren is currently Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr. Bosma, this is your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u66	I was just trying to take away that smokescreen. We now come to the core of the whole matter. We have two Home Affairs Ministers. We've never had that before. So there are two people responsible for one policy area, because you cannot be half minister; you cannot be a little pregnant. The Minister has laid down her duties, but she is still politically responsible at the moment. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u67	As long as a minister is still in office, the minister is also politically accountable or liable for everything that happens. I am happy to pass on this question to the Minister with whom we are having this debate and who is doing so instead of Mrs Ollongren. I think it is quite clear how it is arranged, even if it is a one-off situation. There is a temporary replacement. The temporary replacement does not mean that Minister Ollongren is no longer in office, but that she is currently being observed by another minister. Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u68	You begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u69	Well, I already started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u70	Well, actually, you didn't, because you had a question before you started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u71	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That is why I shall now begin what I would have liked to say myself. This is perhaps even more valuable than all the answers I could give to Mr Bosma in my entire life. Mr. Chairman. We're having a discussion today about an important law. It is a law that regulates the reliable communication and transactions in the digital domain, the online domain. The Minister writes that DigiD is not reliable enough and therefore a new means is needed. We also discussed this last week in the Passport Act, in the context of placing chips in driving licences and ID cards, also as a way of enabling the identification and authentication of people. But there is also a need for a digital system to replace DigiD and, let us not forget, to replace the practice which also takes place very much from the copy of the passport. It's still used a lot. That is actually a strange system, where very often all kinds of digital steps are skipped because just a copy of a passport is handed in. Public administrative bodies and designated organisations are required to do so. Requirements shall be made for any private providers of the identification and authentication agent. Thus, through this law, the government, in cooperation with all kinds of local authorities, public organisations and private parties, organises a better system for online transactions. It is a complex but crucial step forward that we are taking, but given the ICT component and the many organisations involved, it is of course also a very risky step. I therefore agree with parties such as the SP and the PVV, who do have a critical approach to this law, because there are serious risks in it. I also agree with those who say that it is a framework law and that there is much more to be done. Now I have heard no alternatives from the parties who say that, except from Mrs Özütok. She says that some things should have been settled in the law. I don't know if it's necessarily better to settle everything in a big law at once or if it's better to do it in steps via an AMvB. We're all in favour of agile work these days. I say this particularly to Mr Bosma, who plays an important role in the linguistic society: flexible work. If you work smoothly, you can put down a very big law in one go, with all the details you'll be biting on later. You can also say that we are making a framework law and are going to implement it step by step. The latter is more flexible than the first and I don't think the latter is necessarily bad. I understand that there is criticism from the parties who want control, but you can regulate that control by tabling amendments with heavy veils, as my group has done. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr Verhoeven prefers to regulate the protection of citizens through an AMvB, but we are now working on the law. We're all saying that privacy is important. Then why not settle that in front, in this law? Then we give the public the confidence that this protection is right. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u73	Now Mrs Özütok pretends that nothing about privacy is regulated in the law. Chapter 4 of the Explanatory Memorandum elaborates on how the GDPR, the European Privacy Act, is adopted and implemented in this Framework Act. It is also said that this framework law complements the GDPR in the area of personal data protection where necessary. On the contrary, I think that there is quite a lot of regulation in the area of privacy. I will be explaining an amendment from my group which deals with the requirements for the processing of personal data. I would like to add an extra level of control to that with control by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u74	The Chamber is talking about this law, so this is the chance to get it right. Anyway, we continue to disagree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u75	Yes, but we don't disagree when it comes to the control of the Chamber. I want to weigh it down by putting the AMVB on the digital processing of personal data, so that the Chamber has all the time and control to properly fill that out. That makes it virtually equal to legislation. It is not legislation, but the legislative system is used. That's what I'm saying to the state law lovers in the room; there's at least one of them. Mr. Chairman. It is a framework law and a framework law is general. The interpretation follows, as just indicated. It's a kind of law that you could say: it's a safe step; later you can fit parts into it. Those parts are the details that can often be devils. I agree with everyone that we have to keep an incredibly close eye on this, but I do support the system of a framework law. There are some very good things in this framework law. It's not some kind of empty law that just gets quacked down, it's a fairly comprehensive law with a rather extensive explanatory statement that includes extensive content, for example on open standards. I have not yet heard colleagues talk about enforcing open standards. It is a very important principle, ensuring that there is a much better, wider system of exchange and interoperability. If I'm failing colleagues, I'm sorry. There is also a lot of focus on privacy and information security. It explains in detail how the generic digital public infrastructure will address and prevent identity fraud, for example. And so there will be a digital passport, a digital identification and authentication tool to do business with the government. Mr. Chairman. There are also bottlenecks. Every bird sings as it is beaked and Mr Van Raak wants to put it down firmly. Sometimes that tends towards a caricature or a caricature-light of a law, but the point he made about the private providers in relation to the public domain was justified in itself. It's a point of attention. I will say something about this later, because we have proposals for that too. We have already discussed the costs to a large extent. I am very curious about the reaction of the cabinet to the costs for companies, which several Members of Parliament have put forward at different times quite unisono. Mr Bosma has just said something about the costs for the government. It is true that the government tends to get ICT projects out of hand. There have been opinions on this. I also read many of these opinions, including from the Elias Committee, on the role of BIT, the way ICT projects are deployed, the expectations that are there, the steps that are being taken. There are also lessons learned. I hope the Minister will say something about this later. Of course, it should not be a project that is completely out of control. There is also the need to better regulate the online entity, but my colleague, Mr Middendorp, has already tabled an amendment on this, which I wholeheartedly support, because it is actually a kind of follow-up to the initiative paper that VVD and D66 have submitted together. About the open standards one question. I read about the pass-to-leg principle and found it tending towards a somewhat wide possibility to make exceptions to open standard. The Minister himself also writes that open standards have so far been adopted too freely. He writes: "the adoption rate on a voluntary basis is too low," so there is reason to believe that there are still many government organisations that find open standards difficult in some way. Is it really binding or is we going to have a rather broad exception framework again, I ask the Minister. Then safety. It's still January and that was a bit of the month of cybercrime. We have had serious problems with digital security from Leeuwarden to Maastricht and from Zutphen to The Hague. I point out ransomware attacks at the university in Maastricht, the Citrix problematik in Zutphen, but also here in the Lower House, and of course also at the hospital in Leeuwarden. There is a lot of writing about safety, but the question is whether the standards mentioned in the explanatory memorandum are now really mandatory for any government organisation. I'm referring to TLS for secure networks; HTTPS for securing real websites, so that you have the authentic website and not the fake website; but also DKIM and SPF, for example, who provide email authentication, so that you're sure you're actually exchanging email with the person you think you have ahead of you. I thought I read that they are now mandatory for all government organisations, but it is formulated in such a way that I am not 100% sure whether it is actually true. So I thought: I am taking this debate to ask that question. Then privacy. I feel more and more heard when I read terms such as privacy by design, data minimizement, and I say this to Mrs Özütok, no unnecessary datanooiberg, privacy support technologies, impact limitation, transparency. A privacy impact assessment has also been done, a kind of privacy test, and that is what adjustments are based on in this law. In addition, we have the GDPR, which simply serves as the basis for this framework law, and there is also a basis for the processing of citizen service numbers. There is access and rectification possible. Data must be accurate, otherwise they can be adjusted, and the retention period will also be kept as short as possible. I should like to congratulate the Minister on the fact that there is really serious attention to the privacy and personal data of citizens. Tackling abuse, for example by interrupting or blocking the use of the new system, is also seriously regulated. A question about that, by the way. How exactly is that blocking going to work? I imagine that you have an ID and that on the basis of that ID, it will be checked whether the transaction is linked with that ID, which may then be stolen or temporarily in the wrong hands, one-on-one. That is not a link to a higher level than at the individual level. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. Otherwise we get the feeling that things are being put on and off collectively, and I think that is a worrying development. I also have a question about reporting obligations. There is talk of a kind of reporting obligation, at least reference is made to reporting obligations that already exist. At Citrix, the incident that took place in recent weeks, it took as much as 42 days between discovering the software problem and actually shutting down Citrix on the basis of an excessive risk. 42 days! I think that's a long time. So I ask the Secretary of State: how does it work here? No, I'm asking the Minister, excuse me. The public-private relationship is an important issue. That is a point that has already been made by several colleagues. Why not also a broad public digital passport? Why not a public tool that can actually identify yourself anywhere? Why not a public resource that is applicable everywhere? We have already asked for it in the written submission. Then the Minister wrote that there is no point and need for it, while I hear clearly from many different angles, both public and private: come up with a broad public digital passport. Mr Van Raak also said just now: why not a way that the government provides to make you known everywhere? I ask the Minister once more, because he writes now: we are going to allow private providers in the overall broad domain, public-private, but the other way around remains public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mr Middendorp has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u77	I would like to ask: what does Mr Verhoeven really mean? What am I supposed to imagine with "a broad digital passport"? Is that something new that's not there yet? He spoke just now about the amendment which he wholeheartedly supports. That's good, because he filed it with me. So I'm grateful for that. As I said in my first term, that amendment takes very important steps where we can actually give people in the digital world a passport. I agree with Mr Verhoeven that we should not be frivolous about ICT projects. I have therefore said that we must do this smartly, and that it will take some time. But this is a very important step, because today we, Mr Verhoeven and yours truly, put into the law that an online identity will be created. So I ask: what does Mr Verhoeven mean by a digital passport? Is that something the government helps people log in to a commercial web store, or is it a variant on DigiD? What exactly does Mr Verhoeven mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u78	I mean a broad public digital passport. Wide means: applicable everywhere. So the moment I request a document from the government, for example with the municipality, I want to be able to use that passport. So I want to be able to log in sitting behind my computer in such a way that the person sitting on the other side behind the screen knows: this is indeed Mr Verhoeven, who is now applying for a certain surcharge, to give an example. But I want the same thing when buying, for example, a bottle of whiskey, for which you really have to have the age of 18 years, via an online webshop. So I want there to be one digital passport created by the government, as is the case in the physical world, both in commercial and public transactions. In the physical world I can walk both to a government office with my passport in hand and to a tobacconist, where I say: could I have a pack of heavy shag? Then it is clear that, if I look younger than 18 years old, there were people who had doubts about that, but now I can't show my passport anymore. So it is very common that there is one means, provided by the government, in both commercial and public transactions, that allows you to make yourself known and with which you can prove, for example, that you are of a certain age. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u79	In my view, Mr Verhoeven repeats a number of arguments that we have put forward to anchor the online identity in the law, as we are doing today. I think that's what we're doing. So we agree on the goal in itself. Then my question to Mr Verhoeven would be: if that is what he means, what should the government do to meet that call at the moment, which I believe we have already done, but I have already indicated it? I certainly know one step if I may mention the first one, and that is that we here in the Chamber are adopting the Middendorp/Verhoeven amendment to anchor that online identity in the law. But there may be a lot more we've forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u80	Mr Middendorp talks about meaningful steps. I see it as follows. We do not regulate an online identity in this amendment, but we do regulate the possibility of establishing an online identity through this law. So we're, as it were, creating a place in the law to make that possible. That's good. But in my opinion, we are currently talking about a law that talks about a system whereby private providers can cover the whole domain and public providers only the public domain. I want to know about the Minister... I ask him that question now and I really hope for an answer, otherwise I will come up with a motion. I want to know why we have not also looked at the possibility of having a public resource for both public and private transactions, as we do in the physical world. That runs a long way in parallel with what Mr Middendorp and I have already done in recent times, but I would like to take another step on top of it. You know me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u81	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u82	Mr. Middendorp, you're at your maximum number of interruptions, so I'm afraid I have to tell you that you no longer have room to interrupt on this important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u83	Ah, not on this subject? I'll see you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u84	No, not at all. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u85	I will. I would just like to explain that I have tabled three amendments, including on this point. I want a heavy front on the AMvB that regulates the admission requirements for the private providers. I want a heavy front on the AMvB that controls the processing of personal data. And I want the Chamber to be informed of any recognition, i.e. any authorized private provider, so that we can request a debate on this within four weeks. That is what I am doing to help deal with Mr Van Raak's point. Suppose Facebook comes up with a means at some point, a system to make yourself known. I think that we should think very carefully about whether this is desirable. I hope to meet Mr Van Raak with that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u86	Yes, but I also notice that a rather firm majority in this Chamber says that there should at least be a public means. The BIT also says: if we let those commercial guys get to work, then that public resource probably never comes. I see the Court's wish that there should be a public means for this public task. Could we not give the Minister the homework or, at least in the short term, let us know about the intention or the possibilities for doing so? Could we perhaps ask that before we vote on this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u87	I have been working with Mr Middendorp on this for quite a long time. Mr Middendorp (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Middendorp for his excellent report. First of all, I await the Minister's reply, but I have a motion in preparation which does a great deal of what Mr Van Raak is proposing, namely to call for an investigation into the possibility of organising a seriously wide public digital passport. I do so in line with the work of Mr Middendorp and myself, but also intrigued, you say then I believe, or inspired, initiated...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u88	Inspired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u89	Too bad the president of the Dutch language society has just walked out of the room. Mr Bosma has been gone a while since he pressed his point...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u90	Mr Verhoeven, also in view of the clock: would you be a little more reluctant with all your beautiful phrases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u91	But aside from that... I would therefore like to propose this after the Prime Minister's answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u92	Nice...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u93	I do not often hear that from Mr Van Raak about my proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u94	Well, then, Mr... Oh, no, that last one's right. That addition is important, isn't it? Could we ask the Minister, before we vote on this law, to give some clarification and his thoughts on it? That would, I think, help a lot of parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u95	My question was clear. The President is already shaking and nodding: too much is being repeated. So I will not repeat my question, but it was clear. The Minister's reply is taking place in this debate, so that is already going to give direction. In addition, I can decide whether I am going to table the motion and Mr Van Raak can, of course, also table a motion, but I think we will already have a lot of direction. I also think that when we sign the motion we can see if a majority of the House wants to go this way, and then the Minister doesn't have much room left. But I'd like to hear the Minister's answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u96	Mr Verhoeven, you have three minutes and 28 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u97	Well, by law, you don't have any limit on speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u98	It's 10:00. I would like to ask you to proceed quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u99	If you'll let me handle it, I'll make it quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u100	Well, I don't quite know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u101	You'll have to rely on that, Mr. Chairman. I have another question. Those private providers indeed have the earning model to collect as much data as possible. Big tech really wants our data. Their position in a digital system where we need to arrange identification and authentication via Facebook or Google is a serious risk. Well, there is also a difference between different parties in that domain. For example, you have the Apple Wallet that is on your own iPhone.This information has been provided to me by the Privacy by Design Foundation or Facebook's login system, where you centrally put everything on the Facebook server. The first is quite GDPR proof and decentralised. The second is central and not GDPR proof at all. So let's take a good look at the demands in this area. In interruptions by Mr Middendorp, I have already made the point about the importance of a broad public digital passport. So I'm skipping a bit of text. I am also looking at the clock, at the minister, and at the chairman, but I am going back to my text. The last point concerns costs. We're talking about a big ICT project. Last week we talked about a number of euros fees for citizens to buy the new resource. In fact, I have already spoken with Mr Middendorp about the companies. I can skip that, too. D66 believes that companies wishing to make a declaration should not be chased at any cost. But D66 also thinks that you should think about how you collectively turn a drug over all the heads of the population and therefore let non-enterprises contribute to what companies do. So I think it is an important consideration that we need to make. I'm very curious to hear what the Minister is saying. So I don't want to put it simply, it's like it's true. I don't do that anymore. I just want to wait and see the nuance of the discussion. I think it's a complicated issue. My colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, has already asked a lot of questions about this, along with my colleagues in the Finance Committee. It plays a role, it's about small businesses, it's aboutzzp'ers, it's about vulnerable people, totally agree. But there isn't an alternative yet. I haven't heard a solution that fits the principle of CDA and VVD that you should never file uncovered cheques. I am therefore waiting for a final position. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u102	There's one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u103	One minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u105	Mr Verhoeven said a number of things during interruptions about the situation in the tax administration with eRecognization. I have always heard Mr Verhoeven refer to a covenant that would have been concluded two years ago. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me that if you conclude a covenant, for example, on the application of eRecognization, it is adding a means that you voluntarily commit? It's an extra and not an obligation. Does Mr Verhoeven agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u106	I don't answer closed questions. At least, not the way the questioner wants it, with yes or no. But I do think something crazy happened. Because a covenant has been concluded whereby Tax and UWV, actually in anticipation of the broader system of this law, have started to work and thus cost entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of our society, the backbone of our society. He's a crazy guy. But that happened outside the spokesmen of this law, I think, because I didn't know about the covenant until I read about it last week in the explanatory memorandum to this law. I'm very open about that. The Finance spokesperson has been working on this for a long time. The UWV spokesmen of Social Affairs could also be mentioned. They need to look at how they feel that the legal basis is regulated to force companies in this way. That is the answer to the question. So I do find it a curious figure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u107	That is just as different from what Mr Verhoeven has always said in the case of interruptions. Then he blamed the colleague of the VVD and me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u108	Don't blame me. Just compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u109	Shh!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u110	... because we're worried about the IRS. 'Cause you said there was a covenant signed two years ago. Now you're telling me that covenant was just a crazy thing. The latter I agree with Mr Verhoeven, because this kind of obligation is governed by the law. You're not gonna do that with a covenant, you're gonna take care of it in the law. So is Mr Verhoeven from 45 minutes ago a very different one than now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u111	No, it's the same one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u112	'Cause you said they could become mandatory on the basis of a covenant, and that's just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u113	You could say in a way that the Kees Verhoeven from 45 minutes ago is a different one than the Kees Verhoeven from today, because the Kees Verhoeven from twenty years ago is also a different one than the Kees Verhoeven from today. But because the time span is so short, I am inclined to say that the Kees Verhoeven of 45 minutes ago is the same as the Kees Verhoeven of today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u114	I'm afraid you have to do it with this answer, Mr. Van der Molen. Very briefly, because I really want to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u115	It's nice, of course, such a whirlwind, but we're having a discussion here about 60,000 duped organizations. Mr Verhoeven thinks he's smart with a covenant: don't worry about it. And when I ask him a question about that, he says: I actually used an argument that I no longer support. That's amazing. You need a law amendment to make organizations mandatory, you can't do that with a covenant. That is what Mr Verhoeven is now saying, isn't it? Then all these interruptions have been for nothing so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u116	No, now you throw some things in a top hat and combine them into something that never went that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u117	Then explain it very briefly one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u118	Quite simply: it doesn't even have to be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u119	Yeah, it's gotta be really short, 'cause I'm about to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u120	Sure. Then you shouldn't make any more interruptions. We are dealing here with a law which regulates certain things for the future. You say yourself that you have to deal with this kind of thing in a law. Then here we have the opportunity to take care of things properly. So we need to deal with this bill carefully, taking into account the problem you have just mentioned, namely that entrepreneurs and others are being rushed into unnecessary costs. That's one. We agree on that. We have to do that now, today, in this law. We're treating him today. In addition, it seems that a covenant has been concluded years ago to apply eRecognization. I ask the same question as you, which is that it is strange how that happened. But that did not happen on the basis of the legal treatment here, which happened much earlier, whether or not in the knowledge of MPs who at the Tax Office or UWV are the ones who carry out the control. I don't know how that turned out, but all I hear is that everyone agrees that it's a crazy thing to do. Mr Middendorp has made a proposal about it, you have said something about it, I think there is a fairly broad consensus that a correction should be made here, perhaps not here, because it is not regulated by this law, but by a covenant. And we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u121	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-5.u122	I'll suspend to ten for two. Then we have the arrangement and then we're going to listen to the Minister's response.
