ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten, on behalf of the SP, for her question on stopping the provisional restitution of tens of thousands of people. The question is addressed to the new Secretary of State for Finance, whom I would like to welcome. This is your first performance in the House of Representatives. No one may interfere with Members of Parliament, but that is not the case with directors. The Secretary of State will answer sitting down. I call Mrs Leijten on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u2	"We can't make it any better, but easier." That's been the IRS slogan for years, engraved in everyone's memory. Actually, it's not so much fun what's happening. And it doesn't make things that much easier. Everyone who has their own house and pays mortgage interest knows how important the provisional refund is, where you get a monthly amount that allows you to simply knit your household around. That is actually automatically granted every year. This year it has suddenly not been awarded to tens of thousands of people. People were confronted with that the moment they expected the money in the account. Anyone who gets this provisional refund knows it's always around the 15th. A lot of people haven't heard that they can't get it anymore. Other people didn't get it until the 15th or later. Then you need to make a call. Then you're gonna have to make it right. My question is: how can it be, so soon after the premium affair in which we saw that the human size had completely gone away from the Tax Office, that it went wrong again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. This didn't go well. This is a nasty situation. I have already said this in the press, but I also like to repeat it here. It's good to create clarity. For some citizens, the fact that they did not receive a provisional refund in January may lead to an unexpected financial situation. Mrs Leijten is quite right about that. For a preliminary attack, an assessment is made by the Tax Administration. It is precisely in this way that we are trying to prevent the provisional attack from becoming so high as to be granted or even granted at all that it must be reclaimed later on. That is an excellent process in itself. The problem here is that the letter that went on about it was sent to people far too late, so that they were confronted with it in January and then had a hole in the amount of money they got back. That's not right. At the trial of next year's preliminary attacks, I will try and do my best to prevent this happening again so late. That is the first point. The second point. It is incredibly important for people to apply for these interim attacks right now, because they will get them right back. Again, the intention of the Tax Administration was to prevent people from having to pay back a lot of money later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is incomprehensible that new selection rules have been applied. If something changed about your income in 2018, you were thrown out, you were automatically thrown out. There's no tax officer who'll take a look at that, because the computer says no. That's our tax system. I'm so sorry about that, actually. Can the Secretary of State, now that he acknowledges that it has not gone well, promise that next year an automatic selection will always be tested: is it true in this situation, or should we just go through it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u6	I don't know if I can promise exactly that. I can assure Mrs Leijten that we shall try again to prevent that letter from coming so late. That's the first thing. Secondly, I will look together with the Tax Administration to see how we can at all make the provision of information in such a way that Mrs Leijten asks for oral contact with the Tax Administration that it is a little more customer-oriented and that there is a little more customization. But I have to get in touch with the IRS about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u7	It is a fact that an automatic selection is made. Suppose something changed in your income in 2018. You have no idea that you suddenly have a problem with that in 2020, because you don't even get a letter. Isn't it terrifying that this automatic selection isn't still being looked at? Surely we shouldn't have a tax system in which the computer determines if anyone is entitled to anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, but the point isn't that the computer determines. The point is that you're trying to do this. It's a good thing that we use computers for that, because otherwise it would be a little more labour-intensive to give people a preliminary attack that reflects their situation as well as possible. That's what that computer and that rule did. What really went wrong in the system is that people heard it so late that they got a hole in January, which you rightly point out, and that they lacked money. I think that's what went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u9	I think something else went wrong. There is a new selection rule, leading to an automatic decision. That is what you are being alerted to, and we are being alerted to it through the media. There is no one at the Tax Office who thinks: "Hey, wait a minute, that selection rule leads to a lot more discontinuations. Hey, wait a minute, that could be a problem for people's personal lives. Hey, wait a minute, we're gonna do this differently." That's what I think is the big problem. The computer says no, and there's no one passing through it. Another medium is needed, in this case again RTL News, to draw our attention to this. This cannot be done in this way, I ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u10	I understand the feeling, including the machine that decides. Again, that machine decides to help people as best it can. I can promise Mrs Leijten I'll talk to the IRS. I need to talk to the tax authorities anyway to make sure that that information comes in time for people to decide next year. I can also see what can be done around it. Perhaps I can come back to that when we continue to discuss the tax administration in general at the beginning of March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u11	If the selection rule is that two years ago something changed in your life, in your income, couldn't you see, this summer, which people could possibly be affected? Then you can send these people a letter asking if they can pass on their estimated income, so that their provisional return does not lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u12	That's right. I would therefore like to say once again to Mrs Leijten that I am going to talk to the Tax Administration to ensure that this information on that rule reaches the taxpayer sooner. I think that's the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u13	There's one more thing that really bothers me about this. RTL News investigates this, makes a call and gets a lot of reports. And what is the automatic reflex of the Tax Administration and the spokesmen? That is: it is not us, it is the House of Representatives. Does the Secretary of State see it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u14	I didn't think I said that, Madam President, and neither do I. That is not up to you, it is not up to me, but it is up to me to do so, and I am responsible for the fact that the Tax Administration must give the information to taxpayers in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u15	But it has been the communication line of the IRS. And that's exactly what we saw in the supplemental affair. That was all because of the House of Representatives. It wasn't the IRS. The same reflex we see again at the next problem. Well, for almost 100,000 people, this is more than a bit of a problem, but just hundreds of euros less. We'll see the same reflex. It is said that the Tax Plan was adopted late in the Lower House. Yes, we will get that very late too, Mr President! And that would have done it. It's like putting the blame away right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u16	I responded immediately on Friday morning, which is to be checked in the press's annals, saying that something went wrong here. I didn't mention the House of Representatives or the Tax Plan. I'm responsible for the IRS, and that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u17	I would like to have a good talk with the spokesmen, because they have said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u18	Good. Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u19	I thank the Secretary of State for the equestrian recognition, because the Tax Plan has not been adopted sooner or later. He says it's up to the IRS. He could have communicated this in November. But we still have a very expensive system here: the policy administration. Employers, benefit agencies and pension funds must communicate to the Tax Administration each month the data of each person receiving income. That goes into a big administration. It cost over a billion dollars. Why isn't that administration used to see what people's income is? That administration is used for investigations, but if it suits people well, namely to see if they have rights, it is not used. Can the Secretary of State ensure that that administration is used for missing data? Indeed, all these provisional refunds would not have been stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thanks for the question. What I would like to do is to take that with me and come back to that during the mentioned AO. I have to stay here and answer the question as to whether this can be done. But I'd like to talk about that. I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u21	Then I hope we get that answer for the AO in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u22	Okay. That is a procedural remark. I think it will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
