ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the legislative proposal Amendment of the Participation Act and some other laws relating to the elimination of discriminatory discrimination between second-degree relatives and others who have a common household with a need for care (35174).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Chamber for the input today, but certainly also for the input in the written preparation that we have had in the run-up to this debate. We're talking about the Participation Act today. I can tell you, Mr President, that you can wake me up at 3:00 a.m. at night and that I also very much like to talk about the Participation Act. But we're also talking here today about a very specific part of the Participation Act, so I'll try not to let it last until 3:00 a.m. tonight. However, it is an important subject. Let me give a brief introduction and then pass on some specific questions from your Chamber. Earlier today, the Participation Act was a law that provides a safety net for everyone in the Netherlands who is temporarily unable to provide for his or her existence. That law will guarantee an income. I have said before: I have this provision and I am proud that we live in a country where we have this provision and where people can use it without shame. We're also talking about forms of society today. Fortunately, we know many different forms of society in the Netherlands. In the case of assistance, the marital form of society is the starting point when it comes to joint households. The main issue here is equal treatment for people living together, and the fact that assistance is a safety net. In other words, all people living together are treated in the same way as married people. The bill we are debating today concerns the deletion of a discriminatory provision in the Participation Act, as well as in the IOAW and IOAZ. It is specifically about second-degree relatives, a brother or sister, a grandparent and a grandchild, who have a common household and one of them needs care. As several of the Members of Parliament have already recalled, it is a provision which entered into the then Work and Assistance Act with an amendment on 1 January 2004. The result of that amendment is that a very specific group is excluded from the equivalence with married couples, namely second-degree relatives who have a joint household where one of them is or becomes in need of care. "Crucial" must be interpreted in the sense that there is a Wlz indication; so nursing care. In such a joint household, there is neither a married standard nor a joint resource test as regards the right to assistance. Both relatives therefore have an independent right to assistance, depending on their own resources. And indeed, the then Secretary of State of SZW did not recommend the amendment because of its discriminatory nature. And yet the exception is included in the law. In 2016, the Central Board of Appeal ruled on this issue in a specific case and considered the provision discriminatory. And the Central Board of Appeal ruled that the exception should therefore also apply to other married or unmarried cohabitants with a common household and with care needs. The municipality has gone against this ruling in cassation at the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court confirmed the discrimination, but destroyed the judgment of the Central Appeals Board. The reason for this was: the extension of the exception chosen by the Central Board of Appeal is clearly contrary to a starting point of the Participation Act, namely the principle that the resources of the partner, regardless of the degree of kinship, should be taken into account in situations of a common household. And indeed, the Supreme Court states that several of your MPs have indicated that, alternatively, the deletion of the provision is also possible. The choice is up to the legislator. So the government must at least eliminate the discrimination found by the Supreme Court. There are indeed two possible choices: to abolish the derogation as it currently stands, or not to abolish the exception, but to extend it to other forms of sharing a common household with a need for care. The government doesn't choose that. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to have said here that I find it particularly commendable if people in our country are willing to take care of each other, even if that care sometimes or often goes far beyond family care. Fortunately, people often do this, also out of affection or love they have for each other, and very often not for financial reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u4	Just a quick clarification question. The Secretary of State says that the Supreme Court destroyed the judgment of the Central Appeals Board. But the Supreme Court does indicate that there are two possibilities. In other words, did the Supreme Court say that what the Central Council says cannot be done? Or did the Supreme Court say that it is possible, but not in this Participation Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u5	For me, destroying that statement was a certain guiding element in the discussion about the choice the government has come to. But indeed, the Supreme Court has left a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u6	The Secretary of State says exactly what I was going to say: the Supreme Court indicates that there is another choice. It cannot be that the Supreme Court is presenting a choice that should not be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u7	No, the choice is indeed submitted to the legislator, but there is a context and a direction. With your permission, I will say more about this later, including why I have come to this choice. It wasn't a free choice. At least I didn't feel that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u8	I hear the Secretary of State say again, as a number of colleagues did this afternoon, that the High Council has indicated a direction. No, the Supreme Court has just stated in its judgment that the judge must be reluctant. The Board only gave an opinion on what the Central Board of Appeal had found in similar circumstances, namely no change in the Participation Act. That judgment was that this could not be done if nothing changes in the Participation Act. I object to the fact that the Secretary of State again says that the Supreme Court has indicated a direction. On the contrary, the council has explicitly stated that the judge must be cautious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u9	The Central Board of Appeal left it open, but the Supreme Court has really chosen a direction by destroying the decision, and by talking about the principles of the Participation Act. So I can imagine and would find it very legitimate if we had a discussion on the principles of the Participation Act. That was also recalled by several of your MPs. With what is before us, we are fulfilling the task of the Supreme Court, but we are also looking at the signs that the Supreme Court has set out. At least that is the government's belief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u10	Mr Janssen, your third. Or almost: your second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u11	Mr President, it is late, but counting is still going well. I really object to this. The Supreme Court has simply ruled on the Central Board of Appeal. The Central Appeals Board had imposed an extension. The Supreme Court has said: if you look at the Participation Act, nothing changes about it, and if it is as it is, then you can't, so I'll destroy it on that part. It is clear that there was discrimination. That's confirmed by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court simply says it's up to the legislator what choice he makes. The Supreme Court really has no direction in this, other than by saying: what the Central Board of Appeal has now said cannot; we are destroying that. But saying that with a change or amendment of the Participation Act that extension could not be possible, is really no direction. I really object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u12	In the role I am trying to play here, I would like to point out from the legislative power how we have interpreted this. Let me put it this way: it was clear to me that the Supreme Court said it was clearly contrary to the principles of the Participation Act. That has given the government a certain direction in making this choice. I can very well imagine that there are differences of opinion on these principles, but that is another discussion that this sec on this legal provision and the lifting of the discriminatory principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u13	Next, without turning it into a word game, the following. We note that there is a choice. I heard the Secretary of State say that in her term, even before Mr Schalk's interruption. There's a choice. Then you can argue why the government believes that a particular choice is the best one. It's possible. But it's not like there's nothing to choose. If there is nothing to choose, we do not need to have this debate. I'd like to see confirmation that you don't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u14	It is possible for Parliament to change the whole Act of Participation at any time. There's always a choice. What we have here is a leading ruling from the Supreme Court. I would argue that. At least this is how the government understood it, and that was also the guiding principle of this adaptation, because the principles of the Participation Act are there for a reason. It's a safety net benefit. For years now, almost since the beginning of our welfare laws, we have been looking at how the household is composed. The married standard is the basic standard for assistance. That is not just a starting point, that is really the foundation of the Participation Act. That is why I think that is a point of departure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u15	It is therefore not indicative because the Supreme Court has destroyed the judgment of the Central Board of Appeal. After all, the Central Board of Appeal says that there is a possibility. Of this, the Supreme Court says that this cannot be sustained and that there are at least two possibilities. In addition, the Supreme Court also says: we can imagine that, in line with the Participation Act, you opt for a, but it is a free choice for the government. That you then continue along that path is your right as a government, but not only the parliament could have chosen differently, you too could have chosen differently. You didn't do that. That is what you are defending and arguing about, and that is what we are debating now. But then we have a clear idea of the starting point. Since there were some differences of opinion on this in the first term, I do attach great importance to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u16	I maintain that the ruling of the Supreme Court was indeed indicative, because it was said that it was directly contrary to the principles of the Participation Act and also destroyed the decision. It doesn't change the fact that there's a choice. The Supreme Court also says that the legislator must make that choice. But it is not a free menu with the text: choose. There is a thought behind the law that makes the law so and therefore at least I have not experienced it as a free choice. Of course, parties and MPs are allowed to make their weighting, but I have not felt free, certainly not. I found the ruling of the Supreme Court to be a certain pointer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u17	Then I conclude that it is not legally binding to do so. Legally, you can take a different path. You have political motives to say that you consider the Participation Act to be so important that you cannot trample the whole system and that is why you are going this way. That is what we are talking about, whether that is the right framework or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u18	Let me say the following, because I also remember this element from the debate I had in the House of Representatives. I have also stressed that I do not want to turn this into an ideological-political debate. We can have that debate on the Participation Act. I'd love to. But what lies here is an elaboration of an administrative responsibility that I feel as a State Secretary who has a system under her control with certain principles that have been enshrined in the law for decades, where the household and care for each other are the norm of the law. I'm going to go along with everyone who says how important the care is. I will also argue that there are a lot of arrangements for this. But looking at this law for a second, I say: the demand for care is legitimate, but the Participation Act is not the appropriate instrument, given the basic principles. Mr President, if I may. Normally I am a little more flexible in the debate, but since this is a law, I would like to mention explicitly the reasons I have prepared for the reasons for this choice. We have just exchanged parts of it in the debate on the issue of the legislation. I would like to explain explicitly why the choice has been made to delete the derogation and not to extend it. I can give you two main reasons for that. The first is that the scheme should not conflict with the principle and purpose of the Participation Act. As far as I am concerned, this has to do with the purpose, because I am not from the school that wants to keep a system intact to keep the system intact. An extension is contrary to the principle that the Participation Act is a temporary safety net, which must take into account the resources of the partner, regardless of the degree of kinship. That was also mentioned by the Supreme Court in the judgment. In addition, not only unmarried cohabitants, but also long-term married and registered partners in the emergence of care needs are suddenly regarded as single people. Otherwise there will be a new form of discrimination in the Participation Act. Let me give you an example. One takes a couple, married for years. The man has an income that they can both live by. I could have turned it around in this example too, I change my mind. I could have turned it around. Anyway, the woman doesn't have her own income and she gets careless. She then suddenly gets an independent right to assistance. The husband's income doesn't count anymore. Despite the husband's income, which can be quite considerable, the partner is suddenly entitled to assistance, while it is intended as a safety net for livelihoods. Mr. Chairman. The second main rule is that the general assistance is not intended to meet care needs and costs, no matter how relevant and important they are. The general assistance is a safety net of social security in the Netherlands and is specifically intended to provide maintenance. Of course, there are costs related to care needs. That is what we have care arrangements for. These are covered by the Social Support Act and the Long-Term Care Act. These care arrangements also allow people to receive care at home or in an institution. For example, we have the full package at home or the personal budget. There is also customization possible at the care office. Then I think it is important to stress here that, even if you have so many systems and systems, there can of course be a poignant situation and that there can be tailor-made solutions. That should also be possible from the assistance. You have to be able to deliver that customization. For example, the municipality may consider it appropriate to apply cost sharing rather than joint household. The family relationship is irrelevant. Mr. Chairman. My conclusion, in conclusion to this introduction, is that extending the exception would bring about fundamental violence against the systematic but above all the objective of the Participation Act as a safety net for assistance. In this respect, I therefore considered the deletion of the derogation to be the only real possibility of eliminating discrimination. I hope I have answered Mrs Sent's question about the purpose of the law. Mr. Chairman. An omission. I should have congratulated Mrs Pouw-Verweij on her maiden speech. I come to her first question and I think that I still intended to do so. Here's to it. Thank you for letting me hear your speech. Your motivation sounded clear in it. Thank you for that. You asked me if I could or wouldn't rule out marriage. In mentioning the situation of a common household, the Supreme Court did not make any further distinction between those who have a common household as married or otherwise, but merely refers to the conduct of a common household. This means that it must therefore be assumed that, in the event of an enlargement, in order to eliminate discrimination, enlargement should in any case concern everyone who has a common household with someone with a need for care. The Supreme Court points out that the legislator had previously been included in the introduction of this scheme, i.e. for the exception, in fact assumed that all persons living together who have a common household and whose need for care is equal, regardless of whether there is a blood relationship in the second degree. The Supreme Court has also indicated that the extension of the Central Board of Appeal is contrary to the principle of the Participation Act in order to take into account the resources of the partner when assessing whether a person is entitled to a social assistance allowance in situations of a common household. That's regardless of the degree of kinship. Mrs Pouw-Verweij and Mr Janssen asked if I am prepared to postpone the legislative proposal, referring to the crisis we are currently in. As I said, this is not a very big ideological story. The reason is a ruling of the Supreme Court, in which an order is given to the legislator to remove discrimination. I proposed a transitional period of 12 months. It has been amended in the Lower House to 24 months. This has also led to a significant transitional period. For this group, but also for other people who share a common household, the standards laid down in the Participation Act guarantee a minimum standard of living for everyone. I also maintain that Article 18 of the Participation Act provides for the possibility, in distressing cases, of adapting the assistance to the individual situation. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked about the need for care, the common housekeeping, the cost sharing standard and the UN Convention. My third block deals with the extent of the problem, the possibility of tailor-made work and the consequences for implementation. Then you have a bit of an idea of what topics I will cover. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen, Mrs Stienen and Mr Ester drew attention to the relationship with the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. My argument would be that the deletion of the exception for the means test in the Second Degree Participation Act for blood relatives is not at odds with the UN Convention. It is true that it may have financial consequences for a person with disabilities or disability, but it does not fall into the choice that someone has to live independently with whom he or she wants. By providing access to support services that enable independent living, people have the opportunity to be facilitated in their choice. With a Wlz-indication I was talking about it a moment ago, for example, you have the possibility to live in an institution or to stay at home with a package. Moreover, the discriminatory aspect of the exception is not linked to the person with a disability, but to the person with whom he runs his household. It is a blood relative in the second degree. The deletion of this exception also means that the household of which the disabled person is a member is not put in a more unfavourable position than other joint households. And there is still, that is inherent in the Participation Act, with the assessment of the resource test for each household together ensuring a decent standard of living. Mr. Chairman. In the reply, the government, on request, discussed the UN Convention. This had not happened at first. That's what the Human Rights College had pointed out. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gurp asked whether we have looked at the fundamental aspect of the matter: the importance of the concern. Mrs Stienen also asked a question about the need for care. Several MPs have emphasised the importance of care and care for each other. In the reasons for deleting and not extending, I have just argued that the general assistance is the safety net of the Dutch social security system. It is also very important that we have care arrangements. If you treat this law, you could actually look at it in two ways. You can take a sec look at this law and this provision and involve a lot of issues. I think that is right; we should do that. But basically, of course, we are looking at a wide range of laws and regulations that we have. Our social security, our healthcare system, is incredibly comprehensive and contains many arrangements. The thesis is that with a care question you are supported from, for example, the Wmo or the Wlz and that your income is supported by the Participation Act as a safety net. The financing of the care is independent of a welfare allowance. I have heard a number of groups say that it is actually a bonus on caring for each other, and if you delete it, it may be a penalty on caring for each other, but I would like to emphasise here that there should be other arrangements that meet that need, for the provision of care, which should be very much appreciated, so that we actually maintain the safety net character of the Participation Act. That is also what is needed in the long term. Mrs Stienen asked about the distinction between caring for one another, need for care, need for care and care. Mrs Pouw also referred to family care. Care for each other plays a role in the question of whether there is a common household. There is a common household if two unmarried persons have their main residence in the same home and if they show that they care for each other by contributing to the cost of the household or otherwise. Do you do your groceries together? I'm just gonna say it a little homey. It always helps me when I get some domestic examples. So you do the groceries together? If the existence of a joint household has been established, the result of applying the assistance rules is that these two persons are regarded as married and therefore also have to deal with the joint assessment of resources. The element of care in the Participation Act only plays a role, and for the rest not, in the question of whether cohabiting relatives in the second degree who have a joint household can rely on the exception. Only in that case does it mean that there is no equivalence with married persons. Worried is really a legal term. According to the case-law, because there is a lot of case-law on "I cannot use that term lightly', it is that someone who has been found to be eligible for inclusion in a Wlz facility because of a disease or a disorder of a physical, intellectual or mental nature. That's an indication nursing home. It is therefore explicitly not about family care. It is not the case that people who provide care to each other, however valuable, can make use of this exception. Mrs Stienen rightly also asked about the difference between a joint household and the cost sharing. As I have just said, you are jointly contributing to the cost of the household. Then you have a common household. Then you do the groceries together. How are you gonna find out? That's what you do by a factual assessment. At the moment someone applies for a benefit from the municipality, the municipality is going to see what your household composition is like. The municipality assesses this in terms of assistance. The SVB does that for the AIO. So you'll be considered a married man. That's a joint resource test. For cost-sharing cohabitants, there is a situation where two or more persons, there may be more, inhabit one home together and that under the Participation Act there is only the possibility of sharing costs. Then there is no joint housekeeping and no joint resource testing. Then as a cost-sharer, you're an independent subject for the welfare, as it's officially called, and then you both have your own resources test. The level of assistance shall be determined by the number of cost-sharing agents at an address. I would stress that the legislative proposal does not affect welfare recipients who are covered by the cost sharing standard, because they do not carry out a joint assessment of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u19	I have read it myself, read it again and read it again, and now I have listened to you, but I have an uncomfortable feeling about it. What I read in it was: it doesn't have to be so bad, just say that you're more cost-effective and don't say that you're running a joint household, because it doesn't bother you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u20	Mr Van Gurp is quite right. In some situations it may be more beneficial for people, for example in the situation I was talking about, being related to blood in the second degree with a need for care, to be more cost-effective than to run a joint household. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u21	I wonder what I'm gonna do with that. I have always learned, when I have done this differently in the past, that people do not have to count on a larger part of the social pot via a sleeping clock. I feel that this argument is being raised in order to put the scale of the problem into perspective. We say: maybe they're not households; maybe they're just cost-sharing. It doesn't bother them. We are talking about people living together, one of whom is in need. Then you can actually assume that they form an economic unit, to use that old-fashioned word? Do you find it strange yourself? I don't think the law's going to be passed, but if it's going to be passed, can we advise everyone? There's something weird in there, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u22	I indicated at the beginning that this debate is really a legal debate on removing the discriminatory distinction. The number of people we suspect will be affected by this law is really minimal. So it is not even so much that we have a very big social problem here, but that we are really dealing with a legal issue. Nor can I answer the question of what I would advise people. It's really just a whole legal story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u23	That's all I'm gonna say for the moment, while retaining feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u24	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u25	In order to prevent this from sticking in the air: I think we should never recommend anything that is wrong or that is not pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u26	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u27	We don't need that right now. It must be crystal clear to everyone who makes use of any scheme that it is purely legal. Otherwise, at least we should not recommend that Mr Van Gurp should not mean that either, but it remained with me for a while that we should avoid that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u28	Then I misreported, and I apologize for that. What I meant to say in response to Mr Van Gurp is that there may well be a situation in a material sense if this bill were to go ahead with someone under the current law having a common household, or self-employed right to assistance, but would be better off as a cost dealer. It's possible. I can't estimate that from someone's personal situation. But of course, it's not like we're gonna say to people, if you say this, you're gonna fall under this category, and when you say that, you're gonna fall under that category. I totally agree; that's right. I hope I made it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u29	It's all right. It's all right. I came up with it because it was suggested for a moment "you better do this..." Then the Secretary of State said: yes, but wait a minute, we're just working on the legal weighting of arguments. The moment a question like that sticks, I want it gone. The Secretary of State did not say it wrong, but I want to get rid of the feeling, namely that we do not want to and should not want to, because we have to make laws here that the citizens of this country can get away with, without feeling 'I'm trying this way or that way, I might get away a little better'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u30	The Secretary of State very much agrees. Then there was Mrs Pouw-Verweij's question. I believe that Mr Schalk also referred to this. She said: if one of the two people has a need for care, then you also have a relationship of dependence? Why are parents and children excluded from the marital standard for reasons of dependency and those with a need for care? The exception for first-degree relatives, i.e. parents and children, is easily explained, because the child and the parents have had a relationship of dependence since childhood. Then there is no choice to run a new joint household that did not exist before. Well, that goes for living with second-degree relatives. In addition, as I pointed out earlier, assistance is a safety net for the necessary cost of living. Let me turn to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u31	The last sentence of the Secretary of State struck me: parent-child is not a choice, grandparent-grandchild is a choice. But the concept of choice is, I think, relative. If there is a need for care and someone else in that relationship wants to provide care, isn't that a free choice? I have a problem with the way you put it, but I think you know what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u32	I can imagine very well that if they get into a situation where both parents are no longer there, a brother and a sister, or two sisters or two brothers just feel like they have that dependency relationship. That's right. I can just imagine that very well, humanly. But what I have to assume when writing the law is what's regular. Then the first degree blood relation is legally different from the second degree. That is why I think it is so important that the municipality should always be able to say with this customization: in this particular case so much has happened in that family, in that family that I will do it differently. There is that possibility. In fact, for some situations, which I would have such a feeling about, as Mr Van Rooij may also point out, you can't make a law. As a municipality, you have to be able to formulate an answer to that. I referred in particular to the legal difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u33	I share that and I understand that, but here you can see that a formal and understandable difference is made between parent-child and grandparent-grandchild, but that you can also approach this from a different perspective from the problem we are discussing here. I think we're all struggling with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u34	The themes raised here today by your Chamber are great. They're about life questions, they're about people. If you have a Wlz indication, you're just having a hard time, you're dependent on others. These aren't easy themes. At the same time, the argument I am making here is that we can make a lot of improvements in all kinds of areas, but we have to look carefully at what kind of regulation we use for which purposes. So I do not want to take anything away from the pressing issues that are being put down here, but sec on the subject before us today, my argument is: let us look for other instruments for that or see how we can make existing instruments work better. But let's leave the Participation Act and the safety net she is intact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u35	Mr Van Rooijen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u36	Can you imagine that in this relationship grandparent-grandchild, if there is a need for care with the grandparent and the grandchild who wants to provide care, that grandchild will come to the question of whether he wants to have the grandparent placed outside, with care or, at the age of the grandparent, to live with him or her to take care of it? The choice is often to do the latter. One does not want his older father or mother, or grandfather or grandmother, to go to a home, leave it there or there is room. I didn't touch that topic this afternoon, but the long waiting lists for nursing homes are a huge problem. Let me keep that entirely out of it, because then the subject will be even wider than it already is here. But can you imagine that that choice of filling in this need for care under one roof and providing that care can be a pressing one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u37	Sure. This is also a choice which is undoubtedly not driven by financial motives, but which may have financial implications. I'm very aware of that. And so it is, and I have also argued, that only for this very specific group that needs care is access to a self-employed welfare allowance. For all other groups of people in welfare it is not. Why is that? Because we've disconnected income and care support from each other. Even in the event that two people live together and one is in need of care and receives a personalised budget, care provided by the person with whom a household is run, that is income for that person, such as a nurse's income and no care money. At that point, that's for one care money and for the other income. If that household falls below the social minimum, then there is support in the financial sense, in addition to care support. But if the income that is embarrassed in the household where people live together is above that standard, then you pass the safety net character. I have great respect for the examples given by Mr Van Rooijen and I even think that putting a bonus on the provision of care, as he jestfully pointed out, is worth a discussion, but not on the band of the Participation Act. 'Cause that's the safety net.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u38	Don't you lock yourself in a cage, creating your own problem? You say you only want to talk about the Participation Act, because this is about the Participation Act. A broad section of the Chamber says: no, it's about people who care for each other and who have low incomes or where at least one of them has a low income; can you look at it more broadly? Then you say: yes, we can look more broadly, but this is about the Participation Act and we cannot look at it more broadly. We're talking to the government. Why is it not taking the opportunity in the preliminary stage or perhaps hearing this debate to see if we can come up with a broader approach that would be much more appropriate to the wishes and concerns that are being put on the table here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u39	I just have a very broad look. I'm trying to look so wide that it includes full social security and the entire healthcare system to see when we're using what instrument, preferably in a way that doesn't affect people with administrative spaghetti. Because for someone's life, this doesn't matter. The question of income comes next to the question of care. I'm really not gonna think about what part of the government it's about as a caretaker. That must be clear, but nevertheless it is two very different policy areas with their own financial flows. In that sense, it is not a financial issue at all, because care can cost tens of thousands of euros. It's really great that we have that in this country, whether it's with a full package at home, with institution care or with a personal budget. I would prefer to keep that separate from people's income, because that is related to the need for care. Why do I insist that the safety net provision is so important? We have 425.000 people in the Netherlands who use the Participation Act. It may be a bit heavy, but I say it, as I said on the other side: if safety net arrangements are not very strict about what they are intended for, it is very nice to extend them to target groups, but what happens if we make care needs possible? Then married people will also take advantage of it, because that is discriminatory. Before we know it, we'll be a few years ahead and we'll have a lot more people on welfare. Then what's gonna happen? Then we'll have to cut it, because it'll run out of spigates. Then who's the victim? The people who really needed it. That's why I want to be so hard on this argument, because this is much more. It's a complicated structure, but if you pull a thread out of it... I would like to offer everyone everything, especially good health, but I also have a strong long-term interest in ensuring a good care structure, but also a good safety net structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u40	Mr Van Gurp, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u41	I understand your concern. I don't just agree that if you expand something, it's gonna thicken and it's gonna be at the expense of the people who really need it. We're talking about people who really need it. Would the debate in the House of Representatives, the debate so far in the First Chamber and the fact that it is widely felt in the Chamber?It seems as if I am formulating a motion, but that is not the intention at all that you will get a socially suboptimal solution if you lock it in a very scary, formal framework, which is in itself valid, are no reason to take another step back and see if in a combination with your colleague from VWS there is a much more satisfactory solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u42	I hope you know me by now as someone who likes to look at what is possible. We voted earlier today on a legislative proposal in which we tried to do so in both Chambers. But this is just how I feel about the need to explain why I think it is so. We have so many regulations in the field of public health, which involves a great deal of money. This is separate from the income situation of people. Only in the area of the brother and sister with care needs is the need for care reflected in the entire Participation Act. That while there are many arrangements in the area of care, where, of course, I am prepared to carry out that discussion in full width, if any, improvements or innovations are to be made. But when you say that we're going to mix taking care of each other with creating a money flow, I realize that for people in such a situation, it's really not a big deal, so we're going to mix two objectives, which I don't think we should want for the longer term. Otherwise, I'd say, "I'm gonna see what I can do." But this is pretty digital, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u43	I respect your beliefs, and that is a credit to you too, but I feel that locking yourself up in that belief, however sincere, is going to lead to a head-on collision with an important part of the Chamber. I'm trying to find a way to prevent that, because we don't want to do that to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u44	I appreciate it, but perhaps the rest of my speech will still help. Or the second term; we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u45	How far along are you with the cubes? You have 15 minutes before your first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u46	Fifteen more minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u47	Maybe less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u48	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester asked, when it comes to the consequences of the bill, how do we find out who these people are: how do we ensure that people are reached? If people are in this situation, they are already in the benefit files of the municipalities and the SVB. But the files will have to be thoroughly vetted. In some cases, the right to assistance will also have to be re-evaluated. Then it's really about labor-intensive file research. Municipalities have indicated that they encounter only very sporadically these kinds of situations in their implementation practice. The SVB has indicated that he estimates that these are 40 to 80 situations. In the case of recipients of assistance who are blood-related in the second degree, have a joint household and, if necessary, only after the proposed amendment has been put into effect, they are also known to municipalities through the benefit system. For this process of tracking, given the transitional period, we have two years. Mr Ester and Mrs Stienen asked: but what happens to people when they get into financial trouble? Municipalities and also the SVB will contact stakeholders themselves. There will be no question of simply reducing or terminating a benefit. If harrowing situations become visible, municipalities, as well as the SVB, will have to look for individual customization. This means that for receiving care these are both people who have a financial situation that can be problematic, and people who have questions in the field of care......................................................................................................................................................................................... The Peters/Van Dijk motion from the House of Representatives has also been passed by today. It is about dealing with potentially poignant situations. That means I'm involving the U.S. Department and the healthcare offices in this consultation. Mrs De Bruijn asked me to inform the Chamber of a number of matters a year after the law came into force. I'd love to. That law will have to be passed for a while, but that's a detail. She asked whether the Chamber could be informed of how many people it is now, whether they have been traced and whether a solution has been found to their distressing situation in the area of care or income. I'll do it as much as I can. We have already heard from the CBS in 2017, when we have researched the application of customization to the cost-sharing standard, that it is extremely difficult for municipalities to find out exactly how it is administered. So it is not systematically found, but we are going to do our best to do this. Then Mr Van Gurp asked if I wanted to reflect on the retrogressive measures: whether there was any deterioration in the social system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u49	Mrs. Stienen, you may intervene. It's not gonna take your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u50	I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to keep her order, but I'm curious about the communication. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether she is going to come to that or whether this point could perhaps be addressed now. I can imagine from the poignant cases that these people, who are living in a very difficult situation, do not always have what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u51	It's a fair question. I have brought along a number of things for communication to the municipalities, but I understand that Mrs Stienen's question is specifically about people who are involved in the law. If I can answer that in second term, I'd be happy to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u52	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u53	Maybe we can do it at the end of the first term, if I get a message about it. Let's see. The retrogressive measures. We have case law of the European Court of Human Rights. It states that social security rights deriving from the law must be considered as property rights to which the First Protocol to the ECHR applies. Mr Van Gurp will undoubtedly be aware of that. I hear him saying that's right, that he did his homework. He also mentioned the presence of a legitimate general interest objective and the proportionality of the measures. The Central Board of Appeal sees no obstacle in these conditions for the legislator to also restrict benefits already granted, provided that a reasonable transitional period is provided for. It has been amended in the Lower House from 12 months to 24 months. 12 months is generally considered to be a reasonable period, so 24 months should be a very reasonable period. Let me see, I have already answered the questions about the size of the group, but Mr Ester has also asked if they can get financial compensation. I have just indicated that it is quite a time-consuming process and it is really about customization. I cannot undertake generic compensation, because that actually allows the actual situation to continue and that could also be considered discriminatory. It is true that the application of individual customization is explicitly a competence and also a responsibility of the municipality. Applying customisation is not seen as discrimination. But if you start from a central level to prescribe what customization should look like, it conflicts with that principle. So I cannot specify in advance what amount is involved in applying the customization. In this context, it is important to point out that the group concerned is small. There is actually no great social cause for this, but it is a legal issue. This also means that we have not made any savings on social security charges, because we assume that there are very few people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u54	I see we have a fairly short second term of the Chamber and we started a little too late, so you can take a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u55	Mr President, I always try to answer very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u56	That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u57	I think I can answer Mrs Stienen's question as to how we can prevent people from not using or knowing what we are all doing here. In the House of Representatives, on the basis of the Peters/Van Dijk motion, I have promised that if this law is passed, we will do so with a plan of action. I can, however, make a commitment here that we will discuss in detail how we can reach people and how we can ensure that they know this. It is a responsibility of municipalities to address people, but we can ensure that they do so in a good way. If it's all right, I have one more question from Mrs De Bruijn. She asks what the constitutional consequences are if this bill is rejected. Mr Janssen also asked for this. As long as the law is not amended and this will be the case if this bill is rejected, municipalities and the SVB are forced to implement the current law. This means that they are implementing the law on which the Supreme Court has stated that there is a discriminatory provision in it. The Supreme Court has said that it is primarily up to the legislator to settle the discrimination laid down in the Act of Participation. If the legislator fails to do so, if I fail to do so, that provision will remain in the Participation Act and, where appropriate, the judge will be called upon to do so again. I can imagine that the reason for starting this case is still present. If that happens again, it can be referred back to court and then the judge will rule again. The judge will then, in all likelihood, abolish the discrimination. The court then has a choice: to extend the provision or to delete the provision. I would regret it if the legislator left the choice to the judge, but that is what I would like to say to you in reply to Mrs De Bruijn's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u58	There is also another possibility. Should it be rejected here, can you come to the Chamber with another proposal, which can count on more support? That's gonna take a few months, but all right, that ruling from the Supreme Court came from three years ago. Those few months don't have to be the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u59	This provision came into force in 2004. It's 16 years later now, and we don't even know how many people it's about, so few there are. In that sense, not much changes if the law is not passed. On the other hand, there is the discussion as to whether you would like to change the principles of the system of the Participation Act. Although I find it very legitimate, I would not like to have it about the connection of this law. Besides, that's not an exercise of a few months. It should at least start in election programmes and in debates, but not overnight with such a law. Every discussion is legitimate and I like to have it, but that is a very different discussion than it is now. I'd like to have it with you at any time, but if this law is rejected, the situation will remain as it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u60	You can make it as big or as small as you want. I feel a certain threat in it: if you vote against it, there will be a situation against the law. To be honest, I do not feel this as a responsibility of the Chamber, but as a responsibility of the government, which has a mandate to come up with a proposal that eliminates the conflict with the legislation on discrimination. I believe that this could be a much more limited proposal than the whole social system should be thrown over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u61	The House of Representatives has said yes to this law and now we are here and finally the balance is made here. I think so, but that is the weighting I give, and everyone makes their own weighting that the other way around the deletion has such consequences that I would not just put it on paper as a ruler in a few months. Then we talk about broadening the target group to people who live together and who are married. Other people can then also claim the argument that it is discriminatory for them. Before you know it, you'll have a lot of extra arrangements we probably wouldn't have seen in advance. So that is a complex issue, apart from the question that was my direction. But the other way around it is a very complex issue, which is certainly not easy to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u62	I have asked the Secretary of State if she is prepared to inform us in detail within the two-year transitional period of how municipalities will apply the hardness clause. This may vary from municipality to municipality, but I can also imagine that there will be some common policy and that it will be shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u63	Oh, yeah. I also intended to draw the attention of municipalities to these issues explicitly. We make great use of communication with municipalities via Gemeente nieuws. Indeed, we must ask them how things stand. I'm certainly prepared to report that back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u64	Then I had one more point of principle. You rightly said: if we follow the opinion of those who say that you need to extend the current exception to other forms of cohabitants with a need for care, you make the current exception the norm. Then you have the risk, but I would like to hear the State Secretary's opinion on this. Because then they were actually entitled to the same treatment as the blood and related ones in the second line. And that, I think, leads to a lot of legal problems, because then you may have to deal with retroactivity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u65	It is indeed a matter of principle. If so, I cannot see what implications would have retroactive effect and whether it is possible to do so. Again, it's not a financial discussion. But we did figure out what would happen if you opened the group in accordance with what is now discriminatory. That'll cost about 60 million. That's an assessment, because of course we don't quite know what someone's asset position is or what other things are. It's an estimate of what it would cost in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u66	We need to be a little careful with like-dan situations. Now it is suggested that, assuming that the other route would be chosen, there would be a huge additional claim from now married people. I don't know if there's any ground for that. I can't look at that right now, but perhaps the Secretary of State can say a little more about that. I just wanted to clarify the point about the situation in which we would reject this law here. The Secretary of State says: then at some point the judge can come to a choice. But the judge can't make a law. That means the judge is going to assign on a case-by-case basis to people who come forward. I can't imagine what the judge's position is any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u67	The judge will, of course, also look at the route that has been followed. There is a ruling by the Supreme Court which annuls the decision of the Central Board of Appeal, because it was not in accordance with the principles of the Participation Act. I'm not a judge, but I think a judge will look into what the Supreme Court has said. Analytically, a judge also has two choices. That is why the Supreme Court has also said that the legislator must do it, because you just want that to be the guiding principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u68	That is clear, but that means that the judge cannot decide for everyone, but only for those who report to him and say that they feel discriminated against. Then he's gonna have to make a choice in that, I guess. In that case, the judge may make a different choice than the government has made. I listened very carefully. I believe that the Secretary of State has said that the Supreme Court has destroyed the judgment of the Central Board of Appeal and that the government found that a guiding signal, because the Participation Act is at stake, so the government has made a choice. In my humble opinion, the Supreme Court has left this open in general. After all, the government has only used the Participation Act as: that is what we consider so important that we consider to be the guiding principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u69	The Supreme Court has said that it undermines the principles of the Participation Act. These principles have predecessors in laws that have been in place for many decades and which are based on the principle that one takes care of one another in a household. In this context, I would like to return to Mr Schalk's first question. The risk is that when you open up the group to the other side, people who are married also say that they are discriminated against and that married people with a need for care can also claim this. That's why that calculation comes to 60 million. We can't say that we're just limiting it to people who live single together, because then married people will say... We must not discriminate by form of society. This is reflected in all kinds of international treaties. Then what the Supreme Court said. It has said that the choice of the Central Appeals Board is clearly contrary to the Participation Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u70	A word about the married: they have made a very explicit, independent choice. The question is whether there would be a basis for this, in the case of the route chosen by the Central Appeals Board. The strength of marriage may be that you have consciously made the choice to take care of each other, with all the sweetness and suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u71	I realize that, and I did that in the treatment of this law and when I first got it myself. You actually formalized it. You said it. Nevertheless, for the Welfare Act and the Participation Act, the composition of the household is leading. It's been going back a long time. We'll get that on the question of whether you're married. I can't distinguish between people living together who are unmarried and people living together. If you make anything possible for unmarried cohabitants, it should also apply to married cohabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u72	The discussion is now about the fact that, if the law is rejected, people can go to court and possibly appeal to this article. But in fact there is something about it in the ruling of the Supreme Court. I know it is very exceptional, but is it not the case that the Supreme Court itself can intervene and then in fact decides to abolish the discriminatory article in a form to be chosen by the Supreme Court? I understand that it has happened before that the Supreme Court has said to the legislator: then you have to deal with it this way. The consequence was that the House of Representatives changed the law and made sure it was settled in its own way. In my view, there is a constitutional possibility whereby the Supreme Court itself intervenes. In fact, the Supreme Court has already pre-sorted that in its ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u73	This is one of the reasons why I always like to come into your room: I always learn a little bit. I have just been told that Mrs De Bruijn is right. If it is presented, the Supreme Court can do so on its own. That's right. Mr. Chairman. I had come to the end of what I thought the questions were. If it isn't, I'd like to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u74	There's more time. I just meant that seriously. Are you sure you came to the end of the term? Mrs. Stienen has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u75	Not to fill the time, but because I think I missed one of my questions. It was about the letter of Elke and the National Poverty Coalition. They've made a pretty firm judgment of this law. My group needs a response from the Secretary of State, if it is true that I have missed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u76	Yeah, that's right. I had a nice overview, but I've been messing around here. I think I have already mentioned a number of issues in other interruptions. Let me say a few things about this. Everyone states that the proposal is contrary to the UN Convention, that people are punished when they move in together to take care of each other, that people who do not have assistance can live together to take care of each other and that the opportunity to take care of each other is limited. I have already used some of these arguments in the debate. Let me say this about it. I have said several times, but specifically in response to the letter of Each one: I find it really very beautiful, special and also commendable if people want to take care of each other. This is certainly true if it goes beyond just family care. That also happens with some regular. I know. It happens all the time. Since the situation we are proposing to delete does not lead to a deviation from the situation of other people in the same situation, I do not think that we are violating, for example, the Convention on the Rights of People with Restrictions, or other international conventions. Certainly because there is a transitional period, but also because the nature of the proposal is not so much about the limitation as about the relationship that people have with each other, that of second-degree relatives. In addition, I think it is very important - that there is always an opportunity for the municipality to invoke Article 18 of the Participation Act. In the end, it follows from my argument that, in every situation, even if someone has a disability or a need for care, we take into account the financial resources of the partner with whom the person concerned lives. So in the end, guaranteeing the security of life is guaranteed by applying the social minimum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u77	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, but also Elke(in) and the National Poverty Coalition. It helps us in this house when these kinds of civil society organisations raise these issues with us. I also think it is very careful that we should take a closer look at what they have asked and what the Secretary of State's answer is. I thank her for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u78	I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u79	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I would remind Members of the following. If you submit a motion, you should read the text yourself. The motion can then be placed to your right on your table. The guardian of the chamber will then collect the motion after your contribution. I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij, after the chair has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her comprehensive response. It's very nice how she takes the time to give us extensive explanations. She has clarified the necessary things for me. I believe, however, that there is still a difference of opinion on one point. This is perhaps also the most important point that has just been mentioned, namely the nature of this debate. I understand that the Secretary of State is approaching it from a legal point of view, but this is different for my group. Where this seems to be a simple legal question at first glance, in our view it is a question of profound consequences. In the first period, I have tried to explain why we consider caring for family members, as well as non-family members, to be so extremely important, in the midst of all the cuts in care. My group believes that it is extremely important that this is one of the key elements of our programme in the area of care to encourage care or care for each other in other constructions. For us, therefore, this is an ideological debate and not just a legal debate. In addition, I understand that the Secretary of State is trying to limit the debate to the Participation Act. Somehow it also feels a bit unfair to appeal to the Secretary of State of SZW on policies that are made at VWS. Those two seem to be getting a little mixed up around here. Our question would actually be: is there not a structure in which the safety net function of the benefit is maintained and there is no financial deterioration in the group in question? This law is not being amended to make savings, so why doesn't this amount end up in a basket for carers, so that it can get to the people involved? That would require cooperation with VWS, I understand, but that is in our view a responsibility that the cabinet bears together. As the law has now been formulated, it goes too far against our views on family care. We would therefore urge the Secretary of State to look for a solution in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mrs Pouw. I call Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Secretary of State and its officials for answering the questions of the Christian Union Group. My group has not really heard any new insights in the debate that fundamentally alter our opinion on this bill, and I have listened very carefully. As far as we are concerned, the issue remains simple: the judgment of the Supreme Court requires us to delete the exception for relatives in the second degree. The alternative of a number of opposition parties, I understand the reasoning that the benefits of the present derogation should apply to all cohabitants, non-kins, with a need for care goes too far. This also runs counter to the limits of what the First Chamber can do in this debate. It undermines the principle of the Participation Act that the resources of the partner should be taken into account in cases of a joint administration. We can, of course, change that, but that requires thorough debate and we do not regulate it in the slipstream of this particular legislative proposal. Moreover, as I pointed out in the first term, it is not the First Chamber but the Second Chamber that has the direction. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group wishes to stress that the second degree blood relatives who are affected by the law will not be in the cold. It is a very small group, but that does not change that principle. Fortunately, the welfare law offers opportunities to help distressing cases. It would be good if this were to be handled generously. Moreover, we also have care facilities that can meet the needs. That is what the Secretary of State has argued in detail. We must not marginalize this vulnerable group, no matter how small. I know I'm on a little dangerous ground, but maybe I should. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether she has considered in her preparations to compensate the group of those who have been injured for a rather clumsy amendment. It is an amendment from 16 years ago. You'll just take care of your brother or your sister, and after 16 years of hearing that suddenly a whole different regime is going to apply. That feels very unfair. Has the Secretary of State considered, also with regard to the small group, some way of offering them financial compensation? I would like a brief answer to that. Mr. Chairman. It has become clear that we are ready to review the Participation Act. This is not the time, but we cannot extend it indefinitely for us either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State and the officials for the "to the point" response. It's certainly not a simple law that comes before us. The principle of equality is always extremely difficult because it has two sides. I will come back to that in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the question of what room the Supreme Court actually leaves us. It is suggested that the Supreme Court leaves us no room. That's not true. The Supreme Court does leave room for Parliament, but, as I interpret it, the Supreme Court says: the choice you make must be in line with that same principle of equality, so if you make a choice that is contrary to it, I have another problem and I will have to make a choice myself. The Supreme Court also makes a very clear statement in the direction of the Central Board of Appeal. The Central Board of Appeal had a solution which some of our colleagues also want to adopt. The Supreme Court says that that choice of the Central Board of Appeal to apply the exception more broadly is contrary to the principle laid down in the Act of Participation that, when assessing whether a person is entitled to a social assistance allowance, the High Council does not so quickly say "that it is contrary to the principle laid down in the Act of Participation to take into account the resources of the partner, irrespective of the degree of kinship'. That's what the Supreme Court says. So the Supreme Court says: you are free to fill it in yourself, but if you follow the Central Board of Appeal, you must fundamentally review the Participation Act. Because if one law for a common household is going to circumvent that premise of the safety net character of that Participation Act, then you have a problem. So you really need to revisit the entire Participation Act. That is what the Secretary of State says in her reply. I see a number of dangers if you choose to follow the path of the Central Appeals Council. I have already mentioned it in my interruption. When you say that you actually don't think the exception made for blood and related people in the second line is so bad, this need for care is used as a kind of criterion to deviate from that safety net character of the Participation Act, you actually say that the line in which people living together who are unmarried have a need for care and are not judged on their entire income and wealth is wrong. Well, there are consequences. Legally, then, the question arises as to whether this has not actually been the case since 1 January 2004. Shouldn't we restore this inequality with retroactive effect? So you have to realize that very well. Moreover, there are all kinds of other legal consequences which I do not think we are yet fully aware of. We've already talked about the position of married people. Another question that can be asked is whether the criterion of this need for care can be sufficient to promote a different interpretation of that household income and capital test. Mr. Chairman. I have not even mentioned the budgetary aspects. Now it's a very limited group, but if you extend it to everyone who lives together and has a need for care, then of course you're talking about a much larger number; especially if you're talking about retroactive force. So my group is genuinely of the opinion that the choice made by the government in this legislative proposal to eliminate the existing inequality among the siblings is a sensible choice. On the understanding that in those cases where there is a real risk of wrongdoing, poignant cases can be taken advantage of the possibility already offered by the legislation. You can provide special assistance and you can use the hardness clause by explicitly talking to the municipalities to develop policies there. In addition, we have a long transitional period of two years to grow there. So, all in all, I'll say, "Brighten up before you start." We support the Secretary of State's bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u85	Thank you, Mr. Essers. I call Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u86	The cleaning is actually a contemplative moment every time. It gives us a moment's rest in the debate. I will not use my entire speaking time, because I have already interrupted quite a lot. So I'm turning in a few minutes for that. At the core, we don't get together, because it's a matter of perspective. The Secretary of State begins her reply as always extremely involved, passionate and serious, for which I would like to thank her with the sentence: "We are talking here about the Participation Act." A large part of this Chamber says: "We are talking here about people, and their mutual relationship, who take care of each other." The choice of the core perspective ultimately also determines the results you can generate. You can say, "Yes, but I am Secretary of State for Social Affairs," and then we say, "Yes, but we are representatives of the people." We choose an integral perspective. Of course, this must and must remain in good legislation. New legislation must, of course, also be anti-discriminatory. But the perspective is different. In the second term, I tried to see if there are any other possibilities, in combination with models of VWS or otherwise, which, by broadening the perspective, still create a solution that doesn't know too many losers. This was also a bit against my preferred direction, because it is just, to put it bluntly: expand, because that is possible. I have to say that sticking to the chosen perspective with the best of moves is also working as a kind of blinder, so that we have not made any progress. Then I take stock and say that this is really not enough for us to support the law. That is what many groups in the Chamber say. That was also the thrust of my interruption in between, namely: think again. But as it is now, it is, and we cannot do that with a motion or an amendment, so I will have to advise my group to vote against it. If I have listened carefully, so do many other groups. How many are there, it turns out next week. This is without prejudice to my admiration for the efforts of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u87	Thank you. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Secretary of State for her clear answers and her clear input. I very much agree with Mr Essers, so I am not going to repeat the things I had prepared. We are happy to endorse what Mr Essers said. What I note from today's debate is the concern of many in the Chamber about the situation of people who care for someone close to you. That loving work they want to see supported in one way or another. I think we all want that, but I find it striking that we are holding this debate on the basis of an exception for a small group, because it concerns 40 to 80 situations. We are ignoring the many people for whom this derogation does not apply. Today, however, all these people also provide a close friend. A very large group is doing so silently at the moment. As much as we want to support all those people, this is not the place or context to have that discussion. That is a broad route. That is also what the Secretary of State states, and we can also derive it from the ruling of the Supreme Court. This calls for much greater intervention in other laws, with great financial consequences. To quote Mrs Pouw: many of you have had an ideological debate, while we are expected to have a legal answer. That is also the role that this Chamber should play and which we are being asked to play. I therefore call on colleagues to respect this role of the Chamber and to leave the ideological debate to the directly elected representatives of the people on the other side, i.e. to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u89	Thank you. I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u90	Thank you, Mr President. One thing is clear to me: if I wake up at 3:00 a.m. at night, I am not going to talk about the Participation Act. I'll take something else. I admire the Secretary of State's passion, but I would make other choices. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has made it very clear that at some point she has put the debate in a very legal place today. That's understandable. In doing so, she also made a few comments which could be called into question, were it not for the fact that she did put in a minor phrase once in a while. For example, in the debate it was about the Supreme Court, which gave direction. In the course of the debate on the interruptions, this has been clarified a little bit more. The Supreme Court has given direction by indicating that the Participation Act would impede the choice of the Central Board of Appeal. The Secretary of State has also indicated that the direction of the Supreme Court has been interpreted by the government in this way, but the question is whether that is the only route. I understand that it remains a very difficult balance, especially if you consider all aspects, both those of the Central Board of Appeal, which I referred to in my first term as 'left-wing', and those of the Supreme Court, 'right-wing'. On the left you are talking about the independence of people, right at the Supreme Court people become less independent. Turn left, you might say, we have approached the ethical side and the moral side very much, turning right more the clinical and the legal side. Turn left, you might say, is active citizenship, turn right becomes passive citizenship. I can go on like this for a while. You might also be able to point it out differently and turn it around, but at least that's what it looks like to me and to my group. That makes it very complicated to choose the route of the Supreme Court. I have indicated, of course with a nice example from a book, that you can choose a long way that is short and a short way that is long. But it's kind of like if we go for the shortcut now, which will be over in a week, it could be dead. Let us take this opportunity to look again before we vote on the law, to see whether the Supreme Court can intervene in this way and whether it is true that at the moment that happens, all cases, including married persons, could suddenly appeal to it. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to respond or respond to this in a moment's time, but at least I still have some questions to ask. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u92	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group thanks the Secretary of State and, of course, her staff for their comprehensive and careful response. In its replies, the Secretary of State confirmed our appreciation that the ruling of the Supreme Court clearly indicates that, on the basis of the discrimination found, the exception for second-degree relatives should be lifted. My group also agrees on this point with the second term of the colleagues of the VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union. We have a legal balance to make here. At the same time, of course, we have also talked about all those people in our society who want to take care of someone else, whether it is care for someone else, just caring for family members with a need for care. However, we also believe that the Secretary of State has made it very clear that the funding of care and of this particular need for care is not really part of this debate and that it is separate from the benefit and entitlement to welfare benefits. In my first term, I expressed concerns on behalf of the D66 Group about what this means for the group we are talking about. We are pleased to hear in the State Secretary's reply that she is working carefully to point out to municipalities the possibility of tailoring for distressing cases within the Participation Act, through Article 18 (1). At the same time, and on that point, I do feel very much for Mr Ester's contribution in the second term, I say: this group has built up rights and expectations. It's a small group. I heard Mr Ester calling for compensation from the victims. But I understand that the Secretary of State has explained very clearly that, if you propose generic compensation, you are creating a new discrimination. That is why I would like to call on the Secretary of State to tell us where she still sees room for manoeuvre from her role. I am not saying 'discretionary', but 'from her role as Secretary of State', to actively encourage municipalities to provide tailor-made services in a generous manner. Because let's be: this is a group that is probably not always very mature and may not always be able to explain what they need. So a generous attitude seems to our group to be a good suggestion. In short, we're happy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u93	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u94	We welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that she will inform this Chamber, as Mrs De Bruijn has asked, about the progress of the implementation of the law, if it is adopted. My group is very keen to hear how it is going to do this, even when it comes to communication. My group realises that communication is, of course, the responsibility of the municipality to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u95	I support Mrs Stienen's call for generous intervention in municipalities, indeed to try to help these people as best they can. But doesn't that also apply to other situations where someone takes care of someone who, for example, should be included in a nursing home on the basis of the healthcare indication? The partner or someone else decides: okay, I'm going to do everything I can, along with the care support, to take care of my partner at home instead of letting them go to the nursing home. Don't you think that in these situations municipalities should look generously at what they can do to ensure that someone doesn't go to a nursing home while he can be cared for at home? So I would really like to go wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u96	I find generosity a very nice attitude to life anyway, but here we are talking about a very small group, which has lived for 16 years since 2004, under the assumption that we are entitled to this. If it is such a small group, then I am not in favour of broadening, but very specific for providing customization. I wasn't talking about "intervening." I said "encourage." I see that Mrs de Bruijn has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u97	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u98	There was a point there: "encouragement and generosity." Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u99	I understand that you are calling for this for the group that is now going to experience change on the basis of this law. But I would like to make a plea for the group that I said earlier that it is simply silently doing the same work, also provides for a close friend, like this small group that had an exception in the law. These people do so under conditions where an income test does apply. But it doesn't matter whether the welfare bill plays a part in that. There are a lot of people who are currently caring for their relatives who need intensive care, so that they don't have to go to a nursing home. Well, they could end up in a financial situation, same as this group of people. Do we not think that local authorities should also make an active effort to do everything possible, if chosen, to make that care possible at home? Because these people have been able to do that for 18 years, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u100	I'm actually hearing a call for a good look at how we can use this more widely. However, I agree with those Members who have said that this was not the subject of this debate. We have talked very specifically about the ruling of the Supreme Court, how we should read it and what that means for that particular small group that might suffer from it. My group heard Mr Ester say: should we not think of compensation for the delegates? I know you can't. That's why I said that we can do generously tailor-made work for that particular group. Mr. Chairman. I will return with this appreciation to my group to discuss our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u101	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I call Mr Van Rooijen. Just before the Acts: by 'compensation for the delegates', you probably meant compensation for the Dupees. Otherwise you will have to apply for a third term!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u102	It's been a long day, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u103	Mr. Chairman. I haven't been awake at night from the Participation Act, but you won't be surprised if I tell you that I sometimes lie awake at night from the Pension Act, not to use another word. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State talked about giving up care. I read that back at dinner break, with a sandwich, and I made that happen again. I think that the Council of State is actually trying to build a bridge here between the Central Board of Appeal and the Supreme Court. We will not talk tonight about a review of participation, but it is clear that, without prejudging the outcome of this debate, it will come around the corner. Participation society, I mentioned later: participation is an issue of prime importance here. Living together, caring together. Choose to stay at home to take care of the person who needs care. We will not support the bill. I hear colleagues say: yes, it is the prime minister of the House of Representatives and we have to judge it legally. I repeat once more: I have been on the other side too. You can say that the amendment at the time was a mistake. That has also been pointed out: we must always be very critical of amendments in the House of Representatives, because they also come about without the Council of State or the like. But that has been legislation of the House of Representatives. Now legislation has been accepted by the House of Representatives. I will say this once again: it strikes me that in this case this is some kind of block legislation in extremes. The engine block manages to get it through, while the entire opposition, from left to right, has major problems with that. I would like to say here that it is not the Senate's job to say: but a coalition engine block, even if it is a majority of nothing at all, we should follow it here, unless there is something wrong with the law. Then we can almost become a stamp office here, which the House of Representatives for the coalition has often been in recent years. Mr. Chairman. Following the Supreme Court. I hear from some of my colleagues that I'm never allowed to talk about my time as Secretary of State. I do not, but in 1971 the Supreme Court's Tax Chamber delivered a judgment on the coming-back service. That cost a billion guilders, 400 million euros. On the first day that I was Secretary of State, just before Christmas '73, Duisenberg said to me: Martin, one thing: that judgment of the Supreme Court is off the table. He didn't say it that way, but that's how I understood it. Six months later, I submitted Bill 13004. I was just a 31-year-old boy. In finance, I was told: "We have never had a judgment of the Supreme Court, never before." They've also thought for three years: what are we supposed to do? No secretary of state, Mr Scholten, Mr Van der Stee, dared. We had the oil crisis, a crisis. 1 billion guilders was a lot, but apart from that, as Secretary of State, I thought it was absurd that the Supreme Court had decided to say on the basis of the final wage for a 20-year-old person: you start at 10,000 guilders, but your final salary could be 100,000 guilders and you can already calculate the pension premium on the basis of a tonne, so just say 80% of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u104	Mr. Van Rooijen, I think you can guess what I'm going to say. So I'm not saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u105	Mistaking is human. The same goes for the Supreme Court. I am not saying that in this case, but we must be careful to say that the Supreme Court has spoken. It is not automatic that the legislator follows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u106	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. We did not discuss today the usefulness and necessity of the Participation Act. That was not the point, even though the Secretary of State tried to do so on a regular basis. For convenience: these were two choices following the final ruling of the Supreme Court. Maybe there's more to come up with. We have two now, but with some creativity there might be more to come up with. I would like to repeat once again that the Supreme Court has not made a choice or given any direction. The Supreme Court did not say that this provision should be deleted; I also say that to Mr Ester, who said that. The Supreme Court has only objectively held that the Act of Participation as it stands, if you do not want to change it, is contrary to enlargement and that this discrimination can also be lifted, so it should not be lifted by the deletion of the said exception. Hence the destruction. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to look at the ruling a little more legally and on the letter rather than to indicate that it has been taken as a guideline for the cabinet, because it reads more than what it literally says, even though it indicates that this really ought to be a legal discussion. The ruling of the Supreme Court calls for action to reverse discrimination. No misunderstanding whatsoever: that must be done. The Secretary of State explains a number of times what the situation is now with the current Participation Act. If the cabinet takes and holds as a starting point and makes the choice that nothing may change the Participation Act, then there is only one taste left to choose from: limit and take away. If there's no will to anything else, then the road is dead as far as we're concerned. That's not a question of being able, it's a question of wanting. The legal consideration is not a question of drawing on the cross. Then there's a question about customization. How does the Secretary of State know that tailor-made exceptions are going to apply? She indicated that the groups are in the picture with municipalities and the Social Insurance Bank, but is the Secretary of State sure that these groups are well in sight? Couldn't it also be that in practice it doesn't turn out to be about exceptions that get into trouble, but that's just the rule within the whole group? Mr. Chairman. The SP believes that the cabinet chooses the wrong turn on the crossroads, a turnoff which, as far as we are concerned, is dead. The Secretary of State has spoken out loud about wanting to change nothing to the Participation Act. If the Cabinet maintains this, it is, to speak in the words of the Secretary of State, digitally, then I wonder which way the Cabinet is going to go. The cabinet, as the Secretary of State himself has repeatedly said, must act to remove the discriminatory part, but it has only one taste in the offer. Or does the Secretary of State say in so many words that the cabinet will not come up with a new proposal? Mr. Chairman. To remove that misunderstanding, I did not plead for postponement. I repeat, for the sake of clarity, my appeal to the Secretary of State to take back the law and come up with a solution that does justice to the concerns that live in this Chamber. In the form in which the bill is now before us, the SP will certainly not be able and will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u108	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you in a position to respond directly? No? Then I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u109	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for your Chamber's questions in the second term. I'll walk them by as much as I can. Mrs Pouw-Verweij actually outlined exactly what happens in people's lives when a lot of issues arise: then you do not think about what is one department and what is another. They're people with questions. If there's a problem in someone's life, it's very often not alone. So I thought she gave it to me very nicely. It also stressed that this was also the case in the first period.... the different forms of care and its importance. I have indicated that family care, long-term care for relatives, is important and deserves a great deal of respect. It's very nice when people do that. But I would like to point out in particular that, even in the second term, she also indicated that this bill does not deal with family care. Because the need for care that is being discussed is that legally defined care is only provided in which a Wlz indication applies, e.g. for nursing home care. So it is not the case that people can make an exception to the rules as they currently exist, if they provide care. This is not the case in the current situation and would not be the case in the new situation. This legislative proposal concerns the need for care, which has really been filled in by case law. This does not alter the fact that family care is incredibly important and very valuable. But it does not therefore concern this bill. Mrs Pouw-Verweij also indicated that we might be able to look at financial compensation together with VWS. In any case, I can inform her that I am regularly in charge of long-term care and consultation with my colleague Mr De Jonge on the interface between our legislation. So fortunately there is a lot happening in that area. Mr Ester asked: can we not do something to compensate people legally? Mrs Stienen also asked: what does it mean for people when they are confronted with this law? I can at least state, as I indicated in the first term, that you're actually gonna let go of that discriminatory provision if you're gonna compensate generically. What I can do, however, is I would like to do so, because I know that sometimes people have had income support in these circumstances for fourteen years. This is to call on municipalities to deal with this generously, to take a good look at the situation in which people are in, because it may have changed over time, and to be really generous in the customization they provide. Looking at the actual circumstances in which people find themselves, I am certainly prepared to do so, I say to Mrs De Bruijn, who asked for it. I thank Mr Essers for his contribution. From a legal point of view, it was a perfectly clear argument. I have nothing to add to that. In any case, it was very good that he pointed to Article 18 of the Participation Act and the possibility of providing special assistance if there are distressing situations. Mr Van Gurp said: it is really just what perspective you have. That's right. Of course, we have had a lot of exchanges today. I would like to stress once again that, as far as I am concerned, the perspective cannot be broad enough. So let's focus on what arrangements in the field of VWS, SZW and municipalities we can support people in their need for care, in things that we as a society find beautiful and valuable, for example take care of each other, as we also support people when they can't do it financially alone. I have just said something about Mrs Stienen's question on communication, but I also intend to discuss this with municipalities. Because if this law is passed, municipalities will really have to dive into their files. It is not easy to see who is subject to this law in advance. I want to support municipalities and I also want to support them, as I have just promised, to inform people that they are covered by this scheme, where they can go and how we are going to help them get to the new situation. Of course, there is also a two-year transitional period. We will therefore use it for this purpose. Mr Schalk asked: when is the Supreme Court coming back into the picture? Actually, if someone goes to trial again... Then we will either look at that ruling of the Supreme Court, or go back to trial until the Supreme Court. So here comes the Supreme Court again. I thank Mr Van Rooijen for his passionate speech. That ended with pensions; that was very nice to hear. However, I would like to say the following. He was talking about an engine block and the First Chamber probably as a stamp machine. Personally, I think the debate with the Upper House... That is what I said in another debate. I'm just saying it the way I feel it: I always start over here, no matter what the voting conditions in the House of Representatives are. The First Chamber has a different role and function, and partly the same. I mean, you are people's representatives, so that aspect is the same. I say this in particular in this debate. In the House of Representatives we had a rather ideological debate on this subject. In particular, in this debate, here in this Chamber, we wanted to address explicitly the ruling of the Supreme Court, the destruction of a decision of the Central Board of Appeal, the system, the operation of the system, the possibility of customization, involving other systems. That's what we wanted because I think that dimension of the debate is really in place here. Mr Janssen asked how we know that people are in the picture. Can we offer that customization, too? That will indeed have to be done when the law is passed, because it really requires that file analysis, so really at file level. Mr Janssen has also asked me whether I will take the law back. I'm not willing to do that. I think I should follow up on the order of the Supreme Court to proceed with the ruling. I therefore believe that I must complete that task. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u111	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mr Schalk wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u112	I actually have three more questions. One hasn't been answered yet when I thought I'd mentioned the married. I've been chewing on that while the Secretary of State was also thinking in the suspension. Suppose the route of the Central Board of Appeal would be chosen and it would appear that this would have consequences for the married. Apart from the money, I'd say so what? It is, of course, wonderful if they could also use the safety net if necessary, so to speak. That is my first question. The second question is actually about the Supreme Court. I've been reading it for a while. The Supreme Court simply says in its document that the commandments of restraint make no choice. The Supreme Court itself states that action by a court may be justified if, after hearing that judgment, the legislature fails to adopt an act of its own that eliminates discrimination. In other words, as long as the government is in the process of lifting it, that does not have to have happened today. The Supreme Court is not going to intervene. Moreover, the Secretary of State himself has just said that the Supreme Court will not do so until another person comes forward with a case. Otherwise, I don't think the Supreme Court will do anything. There is a third point I would like to make. If what seems to be happening now happens, next week the Secretary of State will join the small group of State Secretaryes and Ministers who manage to bring a law to an end here. This, while there are still options for that discriminatory. And then she's gonna have to come up with something. For if next week it turns out that only the four parties that have now voted for the law are going to support that law, and if the law is rejected here, then we are just as far. Then the Supreme Court still says: government, you have to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u113	Let me start with the first point. In itself, I can follow the idea that it's valuable for people to take care of each other and that it's not the way you deal with it that matters whether someone is married or unmarried. But if you include the Participation Act in that discussion, then there is no distinction. Mr Schalk said at the very end a small subtlety: it is very nice, if necessary. But the latter can no longer be seen, because if someone has a self-employed right to assistance, then you can no longer see it in that connection. So it goes for everyone, or it doesn't apply to anyone. That has indeed been at the heart of my entire speech. Then there's the question about the Supreme Court. In fact, what Mr Schalk is saying is correct. The Supreme Court can make a leading ruling. Now it is true that the Supreme Court has given an order to proceed with that ruling. I hope that today's exchange of views will contribute to the weighting of the political groups. It's digital for me, and I don't get that much. It is either the opening-up of care need as a criterion to provide assistance to the whole group in the assistance once again, care need is only a criterion in the Participation Act for this very small specific group, or the equalization of people in this situation to other people in a similar situation. I'll go with the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u114	I will leave the debate on the married and so on and go into the final point. If the Secretary of State insists on the law being put to the vote and things are not going well from the Secretary of State's point of view, then we are back to square one, because then the Supreme Court will still say: government, you have to do something! And then maybe that other route should be chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u115	Then the current law stands and then the Supreme Court can make a leading ruling. Then there will be a new situation, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u116	I heard the Secretary of State say this afternoon that the Supreme Court has already made a leading statement. I have argued that it has more to do with the direction the government has taken. But what directional ruling could the Supreme Court make? The Supreme Court could say: you must enforce this law. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u117	With a direction, that is possible, for example, with a must-determine and no can-determine, as Mr Janssen said. That could be the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u118	And what should the government do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u119	Let me put it this way: the government takes a ruling from the Supreme Court very seriously, which is why I am here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u120	Let me make a further comment, because the Secretary of State said she has an assignment from the Supreme Court. No, the legislator has a mandate from the Supreme Court, and that is what we, as States-General, belong to, not just the government. My proposal was not 'take the proposal back and then stop it', but just when we see that it would be voted off, in line with what Mr Schalk said, 'take it back and have a discussion about how to do it'. The legislative power and the responsibility that we feel, I say this for my own group, from the point of view of the Supreme Court, do not mean that there is only one taste that we must agree with. There are more choices, as the Supreme Court says. We take that responsibility extremely seriously, even as a co-legislator, but that does not mean that we automatically have to go along with the choice proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u121	I will not repeat the purely legal argument as Mr Essers did, but in the context of what he said, I have argued it, it is more than just an analytical choice. The government has made this choice and the Supreme Court supports it. It is not about, as Mr Van Rooijen said, or no, that Mr Janssen said, that we can never change anything about the Participation Act. We'll do that on the assembly line. The Supreme Court referred to one of the basic principles of the Participation Act, namely that the household to which someone belongs provides resources and that you do so as partners. In this respect, I can see that there is not just an analytical choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u122	Just for purity, the Supreme Court doesn't support the government's choice. The Supreme Court sets out legal options why something can't be done at the moment if nothing changes to the Participation Act and indicates what else could be done. That is not support for the government's choice. The Supreme Court itself says: the judge must be very reluctant. With this kind of rhetoric, we're not gonna make it any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u123	The choice is ultimately up to the government, that's right. However, the ruling of the Supreme Court has been guiding by aligning itself with the principles of the Participation Act, and not just an article of the Participation Act but one of the basic principles. That makes me feel like a pointer. But in the end, Mr Janssen is right that it is a choice of the legislator. This choice is submitted to you by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u124	I realize that it is not a question for the Secretary of State, but I have a question concerning Mr Janssen's interruption. It is true that the task of the Supreme Court is to the legislator. So are we. We have just been accused by Mr Van Rooijen that the engine block would take care of it all on the other side for a while. That engine block doesn't have a majority here. We are all very aware of that. But when I see the input of those who do not count themselves into that engine block, these are in fact the same arguments that have also changed on the other side. We have no possibility of legislative initiative, but why is there no one on the other side of these parties who has taken the initiative to come up with a different proposal? After all, they have that opportunity. I have the feeling that we are now discussing ideology versus legal. I would have liked to have said here that those who do not count themselves to the engine block remain deafeningly silent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u125	I need to be formal. You are now in a debate with the government. The time limit for the mutual debate has already been set. Do you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u126	I get it, but I'm just taking advantage of this opportunity. I just wanted to write this down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u127	I can't take that back now. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u128	I would like to follow on from a previous discussion which Mr Schalk mentioned. When interpreting legislation, the question always arises as to whether the court is competent to fill gaps in legislation in the absence of the law or the legislator. Article 3.9.2 Code of Civil Procedure allows the courts, courts and courts to refer questions to the Court for a preliminary ruling in one case or in many cases. This is another task of the Supreme Court, as laid down in the Constitution in Article 118 (3) and in Article 81a of the Code of Civil Procedure. I just wanted to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u129	Does one of the Members still wish to speak? That is not the case. Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-11.u130	We have come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that next Tuesday we vote on the bill, if the Chamber agrees. We have arrived at the end of the sitting. I thank all Members, I thank the Secretary of State and I thank the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
