ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u1	The first speaker is Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two hard drives have disappeared from a safe, with the data of 6 million Dutch. We find that shocking. We have, of course, had a written discussion on it, but we would also like to place this in greater depth with the Minister. Among other things, we have a request to the Minister. At the moment, it is not clear whether there have been unauthorized knowledge of these dates. At least the data hasn't been found yet. If so, we in the Chamber would like to be informed. Secondly, I wonder whether and to what extent these 6 million people involved have been informed and how that happened. Finally, a motion from our side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court notes that approximately half of the state-wide organisations do not have information security (in terms of governance, organisation, incident management and risk management) in place;]] [[whereas, at VWS, the General Court has identified an imperfection with ICT in the 2019 accountability review;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the way in which the hard drives were archived and the way in which the current donor registration has been organised, and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u3	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the new Donor Act came into force. Of more than 14 million Dutch people, the government asks whether they want to record their choice in the new Donor Register about what should happen to their organs after their death. So far, 7 million people have done so. So there is still a lot of work to be done to get people to make their own conscious, own choice. The VVD therefore thinks it is more than sensible that more time has been given, partly through the whole coronation process, to continue the campaigns. The government is asking 14 million Dutch for a favor. Then it doesn't help if the same government handles previously registered donor data so carelessly and negligently. The CIBG lost two hard drives, with the personal donor data of over 6.9 million people. These are private data: name, address, signature, citizen service number and donor choice. Everything was on it. And this is on the eve of the entry into force of the new Donor Registry. The timing couldn't be any worse. That is why I asked the Minister to actively inform the people whose data have been leaked. In his letter, he says this is very difficult. There are all kinds of practical problems. Does the Minister intend to say that the message on the CIBG's website is all the government does to correct her error? I would therefore ask the Minister to consider this summer whether there are other ways of reaching out to these 6.9 million people and informing them personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I will leave out all the introductory words. You will understand that I welcome the entry into force of the Law amending the Donor Act yesterday, but I am also, of course, concerned about confidence in the Donor Registry if all kinds of data gets lost. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the audit service's (ADR) investigation of the data breach is, in principle, limited to external data carriers for reasons of speed but that the ADR's expertise in information security is wider;]] [[Considers that for the purposes of trust in the Donor Registry, it is important that the entire information security is in order with the CIB;]] [[Calls on the Government to request the ADR to examine the entire Donor Registry information security at the CIB and to send the results of this study and the concrete way in which the recommendations are implemented to the Chamber by the end of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pia Dijkstra, Mr Tellegen and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32761-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u6	We're prosecuting the VSO Data breach Donor registry. The Minister is going to answer the first-term questions and give an appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the motion by Mrs van den Berg, the motion in part No. 166, in which the government is asked to have the Public Sector Information and Heritage Inspectorate, which is responsible, inter alia, for archiving, conduct an investigation. That would really double the ADR study that is currently taking place. What about the current register? And how did it ever happen that those drives went missing? That is precisely what ADR research is about. I would have liked this investigation to have been completed, but it has, of course, been delayed. But let us wait for that ADR study to see if there is anything else to look into at all. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 166.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u8	The motion in part No. 166 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u9	Then the motion to part No. 167 in which the Government is invited to request the ADR to examine the entire Donor Registry information security with the CIB. I can imagine. That may take a little longer, but I can imagine that we will add this question to the research question that ADR has already received. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u10	The motion in part No. 167 gets the judgment room. I see that Mrs Van den Berg wants to interrupt, probably on the first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u11	It is fine that we wait for the examination of ADR first. However, it may well be that you may be able to give your own reflection on this report, because this body is mainly concerned with archiving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u12	That might be possible, but first let's wait and see the investigation report. Perhaps then there is nothing left to reflect and everything is known. Let's just do that in the right order. Let's start with the investigation. That's what's happening now. We would have liked that to happen, but that is something that has slowed down. First the investigation and then what's left to investigate. I'd really like to do it in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u13	The motion in part No. 166 continues to dissuade, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u14	In that case, I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u15	That's also an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u16	The motion in part No. 167 was judgment room. I shall now give the floor to the Minister to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u17	Then there are a number of questions. Mrs van den Berg asks whether we can continue this search. To be honest, we would no longer know how and where. That search is really very exuberant and extensive and it didn't deliver anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u18	I didn't ask if the search could continue. It is true that all the necessary work has been done. I merely asked whether, at the time when something was going to pop up, we would be informed immediately in three months or in a year's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u19	Yes, of course. I thought that was your supplementary question, your second question. Oh, yeah, sure. At the moment, the assumption is that it has not fallen into the wrong hands. We have not been able to detect a signal of identity fraud anywhere. If that is not the case, and if there are any data that we suspect are coming from the old discs, then we must, of course, inform the Chamber immediately and see what we can do. But at the moment it is really assumed that no improper use would have been made of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u20	My second question concerned something that Mrs Tellegen also asked for. How are the slightly more than 6 million citizens going to be informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u21	Yeah, I came up with that. I sent you a letter on 29 June. I explained to you in that letter why I think people are really well informed by now. In any case, it has been a public message that has actually been in all the newspapers. That's one. Secondly, there is now a good message on the website to inform the people. In addition, a special telephone number has been opened and a special e-mail address has been opened. That's how people can get information. If you want to proactively inform 6 million people, you cannot do so by e-mail, because we do not have an e-mail address of all these people. They're files from over ten years ago, until the year 2010. It is therefore technically not possible to inform the people. You would then have to set up a huge implementation organization to inform those 6 million people, with huge risks of data leaks. 'Cause you're gonna use a lot of people's addresses that probably aren't accurate anymore. The letter then states that someone's personal data may have become public, but that letter may also be opened by the new resident of that address. That could lead to all sorts of new data leaks right away. So it is not really possible to do that. Again, there's information on the website. There is a special phone number and there is a special e-mail address. I think that people are really sufficiently informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u22	I'd almost call it a little laconic. It's not a matter of "thank you" error. No, the records of 6.9 million people have been leaked. It is good that they have not fallen into the wrong hands, but with that as a government you have something more to do and to inform the citizen. I understand the practical problems and I also understand that it is very much to be asked to actively approach all those individuals. But I am a bit looking for a different attitude from the Minister: an attitude that conveys very clearly that what has happened is very embarrassing. It is bad for the Donor Act that we are trying to force right now and the fact that we want to call on people to do so. But it won't happen again. There's something in there, and I miss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u23	Keep me for the better. I believe that we have said in all the appropriate terms that this should never have happened. That is why we are allowing the ADR to be investigated, and that is why we welcome what Mrs Dijkstra is saying. Public authorities and digital data provision must be completely reliable. So we have looked very closely into whether the new donor registry could not in any way lead to a security breach in the same way as the old donor registry. The answer is yes. As far as we can see, there is no way we can do that. Not only because it has been tested over and over, but also because the design has been privacy by design all the way from the beginning. Excuse English, Mr President, but that's what it's called in that world. Of course this is wrong and it must not happen again. That's also the reason for the investigation. We have people to inform. I believe that we have done so with the possibilities we have. If things had been different and if we had had e-mail addresses or a direct way of accessing people's data to inform them directly, we would of course have. We've weighed that, but it takes such a disproportionate amount of work, with such an incredible amount of risk of new data leaks, that it's unwise to do that. That has been the consideration of not informing people more directly than is now possible. But I fully share that, if you get such a message, that was true for me as well when I was informed by our psg, you think, "Oh, my God, how do you do it?" How is that possible? This is so bad for trust in the way the government handles data. That's the first thing you think. I think the steps we've taken next are appropriate to that observation, which I think we all share. When designing new systems, using information from citizens, the design must make it absolutely impossible for such things to happen. Fortunately, there is no reason to believe that these data have fallen into the wrong hands. Maybe they were just destroyed by the paper destroyer who took the stuff from the CIBG. That could be a very likely explanation, but we're not sure. It is very possible that we will never find that thing again and that we will never hear of improper use of this disk again. I hope so. But if it is and we see that slide pop up somewhere, I will, of course, inform you without delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u24	Thank you. There were any questions open? Or were we all through it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u25	No, these were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u26	Excellent. Then we've come to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-65.u27	I shall suspend for a few moments, because I believe that my presidency is being taken over by Mrs Tellegen.
