ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	The third question is from Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS to the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management, whom I would like to welcome. The question is about Waternet's digital security. Mrs Van Brenk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I was angry when I read the story of Follow the Money about Waternet's digital security. Internal sources say that it is not the question whether things are going wrong but when they are going wrong, and that Waternet then becomes the victim of a hack. This is not the first time 50PLUS has asked this minister critical questions about the cybersecurity of our vital facilities. That article gives a terrifying picture of a company that supplies the drinking water of 1.3 million people. According to the General Data Protection Regulation, Waternet has a duty to handle personal data with care. It seems that the personal interests of some people there outweigh all those security things. There has been a culture of fear. No one dares say anything about it anymore. That sounds very strange to us. A vital public utility is in immediate danger of being hacked. As far as we are concerned, it is necessary for this Minister to intervene immediately. I therefore have the following questions. How do you feel about Waternet taking great risks with the drinking water safety, water management and personal data of so many people? How do you feel about the fact that the management of this vital infrastructure risks the safety of this organisation, water safety in many respects and customer data in this way knowingly and knowingly? Does the Minister think that this management is still appropriate for his task? How is it possible for Waternet to be repeated on every pedestal: What do you think of the fact that an IT specialist also states that unacceptable security risks are being taken here? What do you think of the observation that it is not a question of whether or not something is happening? What has the Minister done or what is it going to do to improve digital security immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a whole series of questions from Mrs Van Brenk, but I understand the anxiety very much, because if you read the article, you're scared to death. I did when I read it, so I understand very well where the questions come from. I also very much agree with Mrs Van Brenk that this needs to be in order, whether it is about the privacy aspects as we describe them in the Netherlands in the GDPR, or about cybersecurity. That must be beyond any doubt. The law has to be complied with. If you read such an article, it is of course also appropriate to look at the question of what Waternet, the organisation about which it is concerned, is concerned about this and what it is doing about it. I therefore also welcome the fact that she is now choosing to conduct an external investigation, because, once again, it must be above all doubt; you must be able to guarantee privacy and cybersecurity. Mrs Van Brenk also knows that I am very close to this issue. We have made an addendum to the Water Management Agreement for the first time in this period in which we have also made agreements with each other on cyber security and its privacy aspects. Of course, it is also up to the ILT, which has to monitor this, to maintain contacts on this issue. Of course, I am also waiting for Waternet's external research. They are primarily responsible for having this in order. That also fits in with the atmosphere of hearing and hearing again. In short, that is my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	We have indeed talked about this before. A motion of 50PLUS has also been adopted on improving the cybersecurity of vital waterworks. Does the Minister therefore consider that this motion is equally valid for Waternet? Does it have any signs that these problems also affect other water companies? There's a pretty strong signal going from "This is a difficult name "The Chief Information Security Officer." That's ignored. Management puts that aside. So I have no confidence that Waternet will solve the problem with an investigation. Internally, there's criticism. They're not doing anything with it. They're just gonna let it happen. And now that it's so public, we're actually giving all the space to the people who are hackers. What risks are we running? And how soon is the Minister going to pick this up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mrs Van Brenk said at the beginning of her speech: it seems to be so. I'd really like to have that on the table. For that, I think it is very necessary that the external research should take place properly. Then Mrs Van Brenn may appeal to me that I indirectly see that we really get to see the seam of the stocking, because once again, all parts of cybersecurity management need to be in order. This applies in advance, where the penetration tests should be in order. That goes for monitoring, because no one can stop you from ever getting an intruder, but at least you have to know. And that goes at the back for your contingency plan, your contingency plan, what if it does? That should all be in order. I expect that all these issues will be addressed seriously in the external investigation. The ILT will monitor this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	I am very concerned about the data contained in the article. It also says very simply that there has been a phishing mail going on internally and that nowhere, but nowhere at all in the company has sent a signal that someone has come in. That's your first layer of protection. I would like to know from this Minister at what time we have clarity. This can't take long. It could pose a problem for our drinking water supply and endanger the safety of 1.3 million people. This shouldn't take long. So how soon will we be clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	I don't know exactly when the external investigation will be finished. I do not know exactly when the ILT will have this insight, but I will very much insist that this happens. By the way, there are also some things about patch management in the article, apart from the examples you mention. This means in English: apply your update on time. On all these points, I want to be reassured that it is in order. I don't know when we're having a general consultation Water, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	In six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	In six weeks. You know that very well. You may already be preparing it. Then let me do my utmost to get at least as many answers as possible to these questions before that general consultation Water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I thank... Oh, no. Mr Stoffer has another question on behalf of the SGP. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	The minister thought, "It's done." But no, I'm still asking another question. It is very good that Mrs Van Brenk has put this on the fork, because if our water is immediately threatened... After all, that is a first need for life. Without it, we can't move forward, not even a day. Last week this was also discussed in the General Political Reviews, namely digital security in general. At that time, the cabinet undertook to send a letter to the Chamber in which fragmentation and coordination on digital security will be explicitly addressed. My specific question to the Minister is: can she include this case and perhaps also the results of the inquiry that follows in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	I don't quite know what the timing of the letter is going to look like. However, I have just promised Mrs Van Brenn to inform the Committee on Infrastructure and Water Management as soon as possible. We sent a letter to the Chamber in June following the Court's report on the cybersecurity of our critical infrastructure. We will, of course, also follow up on this. It is unfortunate that Mr Grapperhaus is also in the Chamber, which deals with the coordination of cyber security. If we can find a momentum together to give it a place in that letter, then I don't think there's anything to resist. But it has to depend on the timing. Otherwise, I will simply inform your Chamber through the Infrastructure and Water State Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you.
