ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 34986, Supplement and amendment of the Environmental Law, repeal of some laws on the physical environment, amendment of other laws and regulation of transitional law for the introduction of the Environmental Law, in short, Introduction Act Environment Law, as well as the draft Decision 34986, letter D, draft Introduction Decision Environment Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the members of your Chamber for asking questions in the first term. I congratulate, of course, in particular, the person who made his maiden speech today. I'm glad he likes the suggestion for the book that I was allowed to make to him as much as I do. I would also like to thank all the other Members for the literary elements of the debate. In any case, I was pleased to hear that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to propose that the large number of questions that have been asked be divided into three different blocks. First, I have some maps on the legal system, then a number of maps with answers on citizens and businesses in the system, and then a number of maps and answers on the DSO, the finances and the support for implementation. Under the first block I have a number of sub cups, namely a part general, the position of the city council, the environmental plan, decentralisation and the NOVI. Mr President, I would like to ask your Chamber if it is okay that I should at least give the answers that are to come together by sub-block, and that you may allow the interruptions afterwards. This may help to ensure that all relevant information is given to the Chamber in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u4	Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case. I ask you to state clearly every time you are at the end of a block. Then the members will know when to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u5	Excellent, Mr. Chairman. I would be happy to forward my schedule to you and the Members, too, so that everyone can follow where we are. Then I'll start with general. Today we are discussing the bill Introduction Act Environment Act and the draft Implementation Act Environment Act. Like some of you, I actually got on an express train that had been going at full speed for a number of years. As a Member of Parliament, at the beginning of my parliamentary career, I was partly allowed to do this Environment Act and now, so many years later, I take over from my colleague Ollongren, who is temporarily absent. I have therefore seen and experienced in person what it means, and that also applies to some of you from the newer or smaller groups in order to have to assess such a large legislative proposal in one go. I have a great deal of appreciation and respect for all the work that has been done. I would also like to thank you very much for the thanks you have given to my officials, who have indeed worked very hard. I thank them very much for all the work they have done here. The system of the Environment Act consists of several building blocks. In the coming period we will also discuss the additional laws for soil, sound, nature and land ownership. Today we are discussing the proposal for the Introduction Act Environment Act and the draft Implementation Act Environment Act. Actually, that's a little crazy. For let it be very clear: if you vote on this law, you will not vote on the introduction as of 1 January 2021. We made a deal about that. For this there is a separate weighing moment, about mid-year, based on the front in both chambers of a design KB. Mr. Chairman. I noticed that also in the insertion.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, I think it is very nice to refer to the Advisory Committee on the Environment. That says: The Netherlands faces a number of societal challenges in the areas of housing, energy transition, nature and accessibility, for example, and they require an integrated approach. At the Governing Council meeting on 18 November last year, where I went to hear the people who are working in daily practice on the current law and also on the introduction of the new system, I experienced that they see it as a tool for achieving this social task. There is also a real need for the instruments of the Environment Act: an integrated toolbox, i.e. not sectoral. I say to the SP that companies also support the coming of the Environment Act. They see advantages because of faster procedures. The rules are also becoming clearer. In fact, the VNCI felt that it was necessary to communicate this through the social media during the debate, when the spokesperson was speaking. The social challenges also call for coherent policies and coherent implementation. The implementation of the Climate Agreement requires a combination of mobility, built environment, industry, electricity, agriculture and land use and nature. All these subjects come together with the co-governments. A zoning plan that is only about good spatial planning will no longer fit. The environmental plan does offer those possibilities. In addition, procedures go faster and research costs are lower. The regulation will also become clearer, clearer and easier. More and more municipalities are already using the Crisis and Recovery Act to use the possibilities of the Environmental Act, for example for the energy transition in the construction of the energy estate in Bergen in Limburg or for the housing declarations at De Strijp in Eindhoven and in Soesterberg. I also see this need from society. More and more citizens and businesses want to be actively involved in the organisation of the living environment. If they have a good idea, they don't just want to be heard afterwards and they don't want to get bogged down in a mess of rules. They want to get to work quickly, but they also want to be heard when the board comes up with complex projects that relate to their living environment. Soon citizens will find all the rules on the physical environment in one zoning plan and not, as they do now, in dozens of zoning plans and regulations per municipality. At the same time, of course, the Environment Act does not make everything different either. We are and remain a small country in which we want a lot. There were, there were and there are conflicts for which a law alone, of course, never provides the solution. We're gonna have to make choices with the protected space there is. For that, we have to weigh our interests. We had to, we have to, and we will soon. That we have to make choices and make choices does not change with the Environment Act, but we will have a better toolbox for that later. That is why I call for the profits we can make to be made with each other. Much remains to be done until the entry into force. Several Members have referred to this. We're not here right now. The DSO's national provision delivered at the end of 2019 is ready for governments to join, supplement and practice. The basic level will then be completed by 2020. At the time of entry into force of the law, there is an environment window which provides a similar functionality to the current provision and which will then be further developed. Prioritisation has already been made with the administrative partners. The independent advisory committee on the Environment Act states that the legal structure is structured systematically and firmly, ready to exploit the potential of the Environment Act. The committee makes a distinction between the judgment in order to enter into force and the subsequent phase. There will certainly be a growth path: the cultural change to which some of you referred. That will not be all ready at the time of entry into force. We're gonna have to work together after that, too. With the implementation this year we focus on what really needs to be done before the law enters into force on 1 January 2021. From the implementation programme and the domes, there is a strong commitment to supporting implementation in municipalities, for example with migration teams for technical connection, example documents and communication material. The introduction monitor shows that all parties are working hard on this. I will continue to inform you of this. I will come back to the questions later on on all the aspects I touch now. It doesn't mean that, at the start of this debate, let me say very clearly that the implementation guidance will be ready on 1 January 2021. We're really gonna have to be more involved as a Empire. Then the DSO. At the end of December, a version of the national provision was produced, to which public authorities can connect. Part of the rules also comes from the Empire: the dowry with rules that are now made nationwide and later locally. A migration team supports governments in connecting. From the beginning of this year, governments will be able to sign up for connection planning. The first 100 are now planned and the first organisations are connected. Many governments have already practiced with parts of the DSO. In the past three years, 123 practical trials have been carried out with different governments to see if it really works. So we're really not going with the DSO in one night ice cream. And rightly so, we don't go ice cream in one night. In the coming months, the administrative partners and I will continue to steer the development of the DSO and its integration with all governments, but the use by citizens and businesses. Can they work with it, does it work in practice? The first half of this year is once again the monitor of the progress of implementation in implementation practice. We're really gonna ask you again: does it work like you thought, are you ready? If the administrative partners and I have sufficient confidence in it and I have the various information that you have requested to be involved in your decision, we are going to put the KB before entry into force. So that doesn't mean that you have to judge whether we're finished. You will be able to assess, on the basis of the measured progress, whether you think we are ready. Let's just say I'm in the same way myself. If we come to the conclusion in the middle of the year that we are not ready, there is every reason to postpone. We can do it right once. We have to do it right, too. There is no reason to say in advance: let's postpone it. Everyone would like, if possible, to reach the date of 1 January 2021. There is sufficient confidence that that date is feasible, but we do not determine it until around the summer. If we're not ready, we're not going to enter it yet. Then I come to the three blocks mentioned above. After this general introduction, I shall begin with the general questions that have been asked. I do not have the questions so much in order of group, but I have tried to put them together in a somewhat logical order. I apologise to Members if they sometimes think: my question has not yet been answered. Then it may come after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u6	Has the first block come to an end? I see Mrs Kluit for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u7	No, Mr. Chairman, this was just the introduction. I'm gonna start the first block now. I will not prolong the introduction unnecessarily, but these were the important conditions I have heard everyone refer to in his contribution. That is why I think it is important to say something about this. I realize I didn't say much about participation in the introduction. Let me say that participation is really crucial. The Labour Party has explicitly asked a number of questions about this. I also discussed it with the advisory committee. National rules on participation are one thing, but national concerns about proper consideration of participation are something else. The Labour Party and others have made a good point of referring to it. I'll get back to you in more detail later. Mr Dessing asked about the reflection on the system review process and the need for a system check. He referred to his experience at Air Traffic Control Netherlands and the importance that man, procedure and machine must be well connected. The actual testing of the DSO with the users of the DSO is exactly in line with all these points. The system review includes a comprehensive process of implementation with significant input from parties from practice, such as the VNG, the IPO, the Union of Water Boards, as well as VNO-NCW, environmental services and nature and environmental organisations. To give you a concrete example: someone who is currently in line for a passport can be asked if he might want to click for a few minutes to test whether the website as it is currently set up is well-designed and understandable for someone who is just coming to get a passport at the moment, so just someone. That kind of information is all used. There have been consultations, practical trials and experiments through the Crisis and Recovery Act. In addition, an extensive procedure has been followed for each of the components of the new system. For example, the drafts of the AMvBs and the Introduction Act have been submitted to the Council of State, so that the Council of State has been able to assess them in conjunction. The Integral Advisory Committee on Environmental Law has also advised on all products individually and issued an integrated coherent opinion. The committee ruled that there is a solid structure. I hope that will satisfy the demand for the system check. The SGP and Labour Party asked about the relationship between law and AMvB. The Environmental Act provides the legal framework for the setting of standards. The same applies to the introduction law and the four supplementary laws. They regulate the instruments, procedures and legal protection and also give guidance to substantive standards, including those implementing European rules. For example, they determine which topics are regulated and for what purpose, for example in order to protect the environment, water safety, health and so on. The concrete standards will then be developed by AMvB. As representatives of the people, you have played an important role in the establishment of the AMvBs by means of the suspension procedure. I think that the input from both chambers and the way in which it has been filled out show that that is an important guarantee. The future changes of the AMvBs are also subject to this pending procedure and a wide consultation process is being initiated. The AMvBs and future changes thus have a careful implementation process. Several members ask why the standards are not regulated at law level but at AMvB. Among other things, Forum for Democracy, Labour Party, GroenLinks, SGP and D66 are asking questions about this. The main reasons for this are: improving transparency for citizens, businesses and governments and also providing insight into their coherence. Current standards are fragmented across dozens of regulations at different levels. For example, environmental quality requirements for air and water safety are regulated at law level, for water quality at AMvB level and for soil at regulatory level, whereas the nature of the standards is actually the same. That makes the application complex. The implementation practice through the trees no longer sees the forest. The Environment Act now ensures that these different standards are logically combined. I can tell you that when you talk about standards for dredging, it's nice that those standards come together and that you don't have to go to all kinds of places to find what water and what soil is. Citizens and businesses quickly know where they stand through greater coherence and greater coherence. This creates a more effective framework and rules. The transposition at AMvB level simplifies the timely transposition of European rules. This will enable us to meet our international obligations quickly. Even now, many substantive standards have been included in AMvBs. Examples are the rules for building in the Building Decision and the environmental rules for companies in the Activity Decision environmental management. That's what the system fits in neatly. For the operation of the rules, it makes no difference. The protection of interests is guaranteed, and the standards are hard and well known. The SGP asked whether, in the run-up to the introduction law, it looked at the inclusion of important standards in the Environmental Act itself. Yes, it did. The bill and draft have therefore been submitted to the Council of State at the same time. At the end of the day, there was no choice to change it. However, in dealing with the bill of the introduction law in the Lower House, by means of an amendment, the guarantee of water safety is anchored at law level. The law regulates the level of protection of water safety as the starting point for the setting of standards. The standards are then at AMvB level. There is therefore a slight increase in the objective, which is anchored at the law level. Mr Verkerk asked about the promotion of a cultural change in the general administration. That's a very important part. He refers to the article by Groothuizen and others to reflect on the thesis that a cultural change would be needed. Of course, I am very much in favour of strengthening democratically elected government. Mr Verkerk will be sure of that. The Environment Act requires a cultural change in dealing with the different sub-areas, but not so much a cultural change in the relationship between government and parliament. There are no changes in that. The way in which the Chambers have implemented this demonstrates the importance of guaranteeing the procedure as we now have it. Also at municipal and provincial level the executive power does not increase. Provincial States and municipal councils define the environmental vision and lay down the generally binding rules in the environmental regulation and the environmental plan. Control possibilities for the Provincial States and the City Council are therefore retained. For the city council, even the possibility of controlling the granting of permits for outdoor activities in the environment is increased. This is also a point that has been highlighted in the preparation. In this context, I would also like to refer to my previous comments on those permits. D66 asked whether differences in administrative power between local authorities lead to the law of the strongest. The Animal Party also asked this, and I think GroenLinks also referred to it. Increasing the administrative balancing area is one of the improvements in the system review. Ms Moonen pointed out that the power of administration would be crucial and that there would be differences between them. I have already explained in substance that the system of the Environment Act contains safeguards for a sensible use of the administrative balancing area. In addition, there is implementation support. Through the inter-administrative programme, we work together to prepare for the Environmental Act. In doing so, we also hope that we will prepare the various governments for a balanced approach to space. We pay a lot of attention to this in the implementation. I agree with Mrs Moonen that governments, including those who might have less administrative power, should be well supported and properly prepared. So we spend a lot of time on that. I am confident that this support will help the remaining municipalities to be ready in time. Moreover, as regards the legal rules, the rules in force in the form of land-use plans apply in full at the time of entry into force. So there is never a legal vacuum. Mr. Chairman. I come to the balance between protecting and exploiting. The Labour Party asked whether there is actually sufficient reference framework for local authorities. The Environmental Act is indeed about the balance between protecting and exploiting. It is created, as it is today, by a balance of interests at all levels of government, including at European level. Even now, the protection of the living environment for a large part is determined on a decentralised basis, e.g. in permits and zoning plans. It has been considered whether the national rules could give greater consideration to public authorities in order to give the best possible shape to the area-specific tasks. And sometimes there's no extra consideration room. The Empire wants to continue to guarantee the basic level of protection of health and safety. And the Empire must also implement European rules. The Empire must also safeguard national interests, such as main infrastructure and defence. But sometimes there is extra room for consideration. In future, municipalities can set standards for local nuisances, such as smell, noise and vibration. In addition, the Empire provides standard values for sound, smell and vibrations through the dowry. Thus, if a municipality does not decide to change such a default value, that default value is simply the value that has been filled in. There are also limit values. So you can also not deviate from the default values indefinitely. But with those standard values and those limit values, there is a possibility of taking account of local differences. Think, for example, of a groundwater protection area. There may be every reason to be extra careful with certain activities, while in other places that is not necessary. In a catering area, for example, more noise may be acceptable. At the same time, a municipality would not want to allow the same amount of noise in a quiet area, especially if you have just moved to that quiet area precisely because of that silence. The system thus provides guarantees for sensible use of the weighing area. The AMvBs contain a standard that is considered sensible practice, for example a standard value for sound in the Quality of Living Environment Decision, a rich rule for agricultural activity or the dowry. The AMvBs therefore also contain limits to the weighing space. And the General Administrative Law always requires a statement of reasons for the consideration. That law also ensures legal protection. Mr President, I might have to mention a few examples of customization, not to make it too theoretical, but also a little practical. In most cases, the state schemes are national, but in a limited number of cases a better solution is possible locally. A good example is the rules for swimming pools. Those rules, in the Decree activity habitat, are based on chlorine as disinfectant. But there are also other disinfection methods, such as using UV light. But then the rules should focus on a specific situation. You understand that not using chlorine is better for the environment, but then you have to set another rule to make sure that that UV light is used. A province can then allow this with customized regulations. So this is something where you move away from the specific rule that applies throughout the Netherlands that it has to be through chlorine. You can also do it in a different way if the rules are focused on the specific situation by means of customised rules. The balance between protecting and exploiting. By far the majority of standards have been taken one-on-one from the current law. On parts, the RIVM notes, for example, that a higher level of protection is guaranteed. For example, daycare centres and other buildings with less self-reliant people receive more protection under the Environmental Act. As in current law, new activities are possible as long as air quality standards are not exceeded. The system contains three safeguards that put a brake on the filling of standards. Administrative bodies should take action in the event of a threat of overrun. So they must not wait until the overrun is a fact. The best available techniques must be applied to environmentally harmful activities, as at present. And municipalities and provinces may also set their own, stricter ambient air quality values. Mrs Nooren asked about KokxDeVoogd's report, which states that the freedom of the norm does not increase much, as many think. She asked, "Is that right?" And the debate has also referred a number of times to a sort of wild-west situation. But indeed, Mrs Nooren is right, the research office rightly notes that the AMvBs create limited scope for local authorities to conduct their own policies. Many rules are transferred from the current law without substantially increasing the scope for consideration, and sometimes there is already room for consideration. But the most important new decentralised space is offered through the dowry. This is particularly about the possibility of offering genuine tailor-made solutions where there would otherwise be clear rules, which may not fit for both Amsterdam and Tietjerksteradeel. Also under current law it is mostly municipalities and environmental services that take custom decisions to deviate from the activity decision. New is that this type of decision can be taken not only by company but also by area. That's a space that's taken more under the Environment Act. Mrs Moonen asked: if, for example, a municipality offers more space with sound, does such a municipality really know what it chooses? Experimentation is already underway under Crisis and Recovery Act. And many municipalities practice using the extra balancing space. But there is also plenty of material available for the municipalities to determine what the effect of using that space is. There are VNG steel maps, hand-outs to deal with health, but also, for example, the Miedema method to assess the severity of accumulation in noise. So there are instruments, too. That method is also part of the supplemental track sound. You will also see a specific table in the explanatory statement, which we are discussing in the coming months. Through knowledge days, a network is also built up and municipalities also learn from each other. GroenLinks asked about the provincial balance at municipal and provincial level. The Quality of Living Environment Decision lays down framework conditions for consideration, such as the limit values for odour and vibration to be observed for business activities. The Rijk also supports the development methods or calculation methods that help balance interests, for example health screening of the GGDs. What I really liked when I was in Amersfoort and talked to the parties who were preparing for the introduction was that they said to me: the issues do not change. We knew at first that, after we had weighed up here, we would then have to consider other interests which might then conflict with the balance we would like to make. Now we're looking for each other in the front. This means that we can achieve a much better and faster decision-making process. In practice, in particular, I see the importance of the comprehensive consideration and the importance of sitting at the front table, precisely because the kind of questions in the real world do not change and this system helps to address the bottlenecks early and to tackle them together. Mr. Chairman. I try to avoid reading part of the same texts very often, so I sometimes go through the answers. There were a number of questions about the NOVI and the principle of subsidiarity. What do you have to do at a rich level and what can you do at a lower level? Under the Environmental Law, the Empire can exercise some powers only if there is a national interest that cannot be effectively and effectively defended by the municipalities. This also reflects the principle of subsidiarity. Whether or not this is met is a political consideration. It's a trade-off between Cabinet and Chamber. It's not a set of formal criteria. The establishment of a National Environment Vision is a very important moment to make that political balance with each other. When we look back in history, we will see that there is a kind of pendulum, where at times there is more and at times less need for control of the Empire. This is, of course, also due to the nature of the issues which need to be addressed in spatial planning at that time. I think we are all aware that, for example, climate adaptation, but also the major challenges surrounding living and infrastructure investments that need to be made, can give rise to the reich again to take the lead in finding an optimal solution to the joint challenges we face. Once the NOVI has been established and there is, it will not be an end to that process, but we will continue to talk about how that lead should be further developed. Then the monitor and evaluation, a subject that has been discussed a lot by you. Monitoring how it goes and evaluating when the law is introduced are very important, precisely because it is a process. You have also noticed that all of this builds on all kinds of pilots and experiments that have been done in recent times, but also a process in which we will have to go far ahead in the introduction. The Environment Act provides for an evaluation of the effectiveness and effects of the law in practice. The first formal evaluation shall take place within five years of its entry into force. Evaluations shall be independent. Some of you have asked for an independent evaluation committee. I would very much like to make it clear that I think that is crucial. We're there together. It must indeed be an independent evaluation which gives us a broad and independent picture of what the different effects are. Some of you have also mentioned points, of which you think it is important that they are monitored. I will come back to that later. But let us establish clearly with each other: we will certainly monitor, for example, the balance between protecting and exploiting and, for example, how municipalities, provinces and water boards work. The Environment Act also states that the Planning Bureau for the Environment will issue a scientific report on the development of the quality of the components of the physical environment, the balance of the living environment, at least once every four years. The Planning Bureau looks at all the elements of the environment, such as nature, water, landscape and soil. The PBL will also monitor the safeguarding of the priorities and national interests of the NOVI every two years. I also see the NOVI as a good reflection of the societal objectives of the Environment Act. The Monitor Landscape is also linked to this NOVI monitor. In addition, there are several monitors that measure the quality of the living environment, such as air and water. They all give input too. But also help signals from, for example, the transition teams in the country. In any case, let me say to you that if we get intermediate signals that there is a need somewhere to get to work together, we will do so and we will not wait for the evaluation that is only planned in a few years' time. I attach great importance to an independent evaluation. I will therefore appoint a committee of experts to ensure that independence. I would also be happy to inform you of how we intend to organise this in the letter sent before the summer. The Christian Union refers to the article on constitutional landslide and says that it is therefore important to prevent the degradation and to give explicit attention to these constitutional notions in the evaluation. I would very much like to be willing to do that. The application of the instruments of the Environmental Law and its functioning within our legal system can also be taken into account in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u8	Is it true you're almost at the end of the first block, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u9	Yeah, almost. Let me take a look, because I can see that there are a number of doubles in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u10	I heard NOVI come by a few times. NOVI is the last topic from the first block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u11	Yeah, exactly. Let's see. Ms Moonen specifically asked about the earthquake area in Groningen and how the coherent balance would help there. As a result, someone who wants to implement a housing, climate or energy project knows better what they are up to. But that also applies, of course, to the strengthening of the buildings in Groningen. For the reinforcement exercise in Groningen, we are making a separate legislative proposal that regulates the tasks and roles of the parties involved and accelerates procedures. We don't just do that with the Environment Act given the very specific situation in Groningen. That is a unique and complex situation. As far as environmental aspects are concerned, the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Environment Act are as closely connected as possible. Then there is the introduction of parallel legislation, which Mrs Klip asked for. It is important that the system stays in order in the future and that we do respond to signals without immediately entering the risk-control reflex, which the Advisory Committee on Environment warns us about. That seems absolutely the way to deal with it. Then there's the last question. Mrs Nooren also asked for a response to the article "The Principle of Equivalence of the Environmental Act" and the tension between the pursuit of sustainability and the pursuit of flexibility. Actually, these are two sides of the same coin, where it's always the question: do you rely on holding and deviate from that or do you rely on flexibility and make sure that doesn't jump out of the band? The article you are referring to contains a recognizable picture of the tension that exists: on the one hand, legal certainty and, on the other hand, sufficient flexibility. National general rules have resolved this by allowing equivalent measures to be applied in order to achieve the objective. The example I have just mentioned for chlorine and other forms of cleaning also offers scope for innovation and prevents general rules from being obstructive or too often amended, or too often exceptions to the rules must be made. At law level, however, it is stipulated that the application of equivalence shall achieve at least the same result as the prescribed measure is intended to achieve. A building must therefore be equally healthy or an environmentally damaging activity must be equally safe for the environment. That principle of equivalence is not new either, but the scope of it has been extended in the Environment Act. As stated in the article, it is important that the objective of the state rule is clear, that independent advice can be sought on the equivalence of the measure and that that knowledge is shared so that it is also verifiable. I share that view. The rules of the state have clearly defined objectives. In addition, for example, an independent advisory committee, whose opinions are published, remains in place for the building regulations, which are covered by the article, so that it can be verified whether a measure is actually equivalent. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Minister. Then Mrs Kluit was just walking to the microphone for an interruption. I would now like to give them the opportunity and, of course, the other Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u13	I had another question, but I think it's coming back. I do need a little overview of where and when we discuss something, I notice. The Minister goes right through the various themes. Sometimes I have questions, but then I think maybe it'll come. Since we're not interrupting, I'd like to ask for an overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u14	We just got that review.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u15	Yeah, it could be distributed through the messengers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u16	Fine. That review's coming up. You're right to ask, Mrs. Kluit. I think Mrs. Nooren was next in line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u17	I recognise Mrs Kluit's dilemma, because I do not know very well whether or not we should ask about the DSO, the KB entry into force or the balance between protecting and exploiting. So I'm just gonna ask some questions and then I'll find out if the answers are coming or have been. Then I probably didn't listen properly. The first general question that my group and several other groups have asked is whether complex legislation can be overseen. The Minister herself indicated that she also found the legislation complex. Aren't advisors and lawyers gonna make the call instead of politicians? I'd like to comment on that. Will DSO come back again? Okay, let's do it later. Is the introduction path coming back? Yeah? Okay, that'll come back later. Then the balance between protecting, exploiting, customization for local space. We had asked a more fundamental question, also learning from decentralisation in the social domain. The question to the Minister was whether she drew lessons from it. A lot of consideration is given locally. This requires a deepening of the concept when local customisation has added value. Customisation is a kind of panacea in this country, but when is customization on the agenda and when should it be central? I have also tried in the debate with Mrs Kluit to get a look at this. We haven't quite figured that out yet, but perhaps the Minister can give that clarity to both of us. That was also related to the NOVI and the enormous task that is currently facing us. Of course you can change a NOVI every time. We all understand that, but the question to the Minister is the following. At the beginning of 2020, we are facing a huge challenge for construction, energy, the environment and climate. We have made it a little more clear, because the Novi texts we have seen so far do not in any way give the direction of this cabinet in this respect. NOVIs are one of the building blocks for us. We want to know what kind of NOOVIs this cabinet is proposing and what it looks like. How do you prevent the cabinet from adding up what municipalities, provinces and water boards do, says "no, I don't think it's good enough and I can't go to Europe with it"? So what's the relationship between government strikes? Then the evaluation. How is the current evaluation committee, whether independent or not, suspended? Now it is a committee set up by the Minister, but not a formal committee. As far as we are concerned, it is not a group that appoints the Minister, so it has to be different from what it has done now. I also had the question of whether the reports of that committee could come directly to the Chamber. Of course, we also want the Minister's opinion, but it is interesting to get them. I understand that there are several different evaluation pathways running side by side, but I would not be very happy if I only received an evaluation five years after the introduction. So what does the trajectory look like and when will the evaluation come? Those were my points so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u18	You can see I still have a whole pile. I cannot quite guarantee that some of the questions that are being asked are not still in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u19	It's okay to do that. The answer "it's coming" is also a good answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u20	In any case, I will answer some of the basic questions now. Then maybe more details will come out of the piles. Is it manageable? As a Member of Parliament, I've been working on this. Then you will notice that it is very important to be able to rely on advice from people who have gone through the whole thing for us. The advisory committee concludes, looking at the overall structure of spatial planning law, that "the legal structure is systematically solid. Looking at the system as a whole from a legal point of view, the Committee considers that the legislator has consistently put the objectives of the law at the heart of the drafting of the parts of the system as well as in the design of the core instruments. The Committee strongly believes that the policy cycle is central to the guiding principle. This legal system is more insightful and user-friendly for the user of law than the current patchwork of environmental rules in about one hundred laws, AMvBs and ministerial regulations." That is the opinion of the committee, which therefore compares the current system with the one it is currently set up. That is not to say that it is not a complex system, but if you compare it with the complexity of the current system, then the opinion of the committee which has assessed the whole is that it is really an improvement compared to the present complexity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u21	That wasn't my question, sorry. My question was whether it could be considered for those who have to work with that law. Then I'm talking about local administrators, city councils and citizens. So the question is not whether someone who looks at the system is okay with it. There is a law that is judged by the experts as good, or better, you say; I prefer a law that is judged as good, and not as better. I am talking about the practicality of the law and preventing the risk that we become dependent on lawyers and advisers and that those who have to do the administrative or substantive assessment then think "it will" as I personally sometimes do with ICT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u22	Of course. The point is that it is better for the user. That is what the committee is saying in particular. The Committee therefore says that it is more transparent and user-friendly for the user of the system. That is, I think, the important element of the conclusion, because, of course, that is what this is all about. This is a legal area for which the municipalities were traditionally already responsible. The decentralisation of the social domain has been mentioned a number of times, but this is really about the core of what municipalities were always responsible for. That's a big difference. It had only been incorporated into a large amount of separate laws, AMvB's et cetera. So municipalities are familiar with the content of the matter, and this system makes it easier and more insightful for the user. That is the opinion of the committee. Then there are some of the other questions that have been asked. I shall come back to the Novi in a moment, but I agree with the approach that I have just tried to say in my introduction that it may be necessary that you as a Empire take the lead in determining whether we are doing the good things together in the sum total and are doing them optimally and efficiently. Indeed, in the first general discussion in the Chamber that I had on this subject, there was also a clear signal from various political groups that it might be more robust in the NOVI. I have also promised a letter to clarify this and to make it clearer. That letter comes in late February, early March. Then about the evaluation and how that committee was hung. I think I'll come back to that later. In any case, let me say that I think it is very important, and I hear all of this from you, that we are really going to an independent evaluation committee. We will ensure that in the letter that comes before the summer, we will indicate how we intend to decorate it. And if you have any other thoughts on this, we can always discuss it with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u23	Not all the questions have been answered, but I take it that the others on the introduction path and the like will follow later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u24	Yeah, they're coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u25	Then Mr. Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two questions to the Minister. The first question concerns the commitment, which we in the Chamber welcome, that there will also be an independent evaluation committee as far as the Minister is concerned. At least that's clear. That has not been clear so far. But I also indicated that I would like an annual report. The Minister has not yet responded. That's my first question. The second question concerns monitoring. I asked to be able to get the data quickly. Of course, they need to be processed. Will the Minister consider the digital accessibility of monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u27	It seems very important to me that at this stage, in which we are taking many steps together and receiving many questions from local authorities, we should keep our finger on the pulse and indeed move towards annual reporting. It also seems very important to me to make sure that it can be easily unlocked digitally. So let's also go into the letter that comes before the summer in what way we think the reports that are produced are also easily digitally accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u28	I have two brief questions, particularly in connection with the introduction. The Minister did say that we are not voting or going into the law by 1 January, but that we are going to have it. It's just about when. I think that should be made equally clear and that one day, if it is not enough, it will never be. I am concerned about the date of 1 July, given the recess beginning 8 July, etc., and the whole procedure. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on this later. The second thing I heard the Minister say, which she can come back to in her DSO block, is that the basic level will be completed by 2020. Let me assume that scenario two, namely the basic level, was delivered on 1 January. Perhaps the Minister would like to clarify this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u29	I'll come to DSO later and I'll come back to that all at once. I'm sure as a spoiler I can tell you that it's all on schedule. Then I'll continue with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u30	Were you finished with your answers to Mr Janssen for now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u31	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u32	You will now have the floor, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u33	In the introduction I asked for some sets of information for the royal decree. You said a little bit between the nose and the lips that you will give them all. I just want to make sure that's really all the information. I asked for the BIT advice and the Gateway Review. I also asked for the cost assessment for local authorities and the zero measurement for the VHT column. Is that all there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u34	A BIT opinion was delivered already in 2017. So it was already in your room. A request for advice for the second phase has now been submitted to the BIT. However, BIT is independent, so it will not be left by me or by you to decide when they will deliver. I am happy to pass on to them the explicit request of the Chamber or it can be delivered in advance. However, this BIT opinion is for the second phase. The BIT opinion for the first phase is here. A number of comments were also made from the ADR. The ADR and the Gateway Review will be there about the first phase of the BIT opinion. It'll all be there in succession. That is all that is needed for the entry into force of the first phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u35	What can you say about the cost assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u36	I would be happy to come forward with a further cost estimate before the summer. You also asked for a zero reading. What was that zero reading? I can't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u37	That was about the VHT column; the licensing, enforcement and supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u38	We will also try to make that clear to the KB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u39	I would like to thank the Minister for the answers and to reflect on the question of culture change in general administration. In particular, you replied to the more senior levels of the administration. I had also asked the question, particularly in view of the Councils and the States. I would like to ask the Minister what programmes are in place to ensure that we also have really strong councils and states, who know what their powers are and what power they need to control, because that changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u40	Absolutely, that's a very important question. I wanted to come back to that in the introduction support. Part of the way in which we are now working on implementation, where we will continue the implementation support, is also focused on these kinds of aspects. It is quite right that Mr Verkerk should draw attention to this. A number of other Members have also asked: nice that there is that for today's city council members and statesmen, but what if there were elections later and some of the knowledge is gone? It is precisely for this reason that I agree with your Chamber that we really need to go on with this introduction guidance. It was now, I believe, scheduled until mid 2021. That's gonna take a lot longer. With each other we will shape the transition in the cultural change and a good understanding of the role, responsibilities and possibilities of municipal councils and states in the coming years. In doing so, we must also ensure permanent training, information, and such pathways. We'll go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u41	I thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u42	Okay. Mrs. Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u43	I agree with what Mr Rietkerk said. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to set up a committee of experts, which will look neutrally and independently at all monitoring and evaluation. The VVD Group had raised a question. You say in a subtlety: of course we should not shoot into a line reflex. However, the flesh is weak. We are all inclined if there is a problem to jump to a solution very quickly. So I asked that question on behalf of my group. I understand that this cannot be done in detail. However, there are so many different types of data, which will also come out at different times each time, because there are two-, three-, four- and five-year cycles. Can the Minister promise that there will be a system of how we deal with all these different types of data? Again, we all know that stacking up and tending to solve a problem very quickly, while probably creating problems for the future again. I would therefore like to receive a commitment from the Minister that some form of systemic thinking is linked to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u44	I'd be happy to. I recognize the risk that Mrs. Klip sketches. I think I can make two commitments to this. That is that we will also ask in the evaluation whether the independent committee will take into account what it sees of the risk rule reflex. How do they judge that? As we also look at the balance between protecting and exploiting, I think that this is also an aspect that we could explicitly submit to the committee to take into account. In addition, I think it is right that we should show the Chamber how we organise systematic monitoring with each other and that there is no overlap and that is clear to everyone. I think it would be good to provide the Chamber with an in-depth understanding of the systematic approach to this monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u45	I thank the Minister for the commitment. However, I do not just mean systematic monitoring, but in particular what we then do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u46	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u47	I also mean that what we do with it is a reasoned way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u48	Sure. It is good to have the coherence of whether monitoring is actually being used properly in the policy cycle, which the advisory committee now says is good that it has been designed precisely for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u49	I have a question that follows on from Mr Janssen's question. That question concerns the weighting of the KB decision. Could the Minister say what the no-go or go criteria are to postpone it if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u50	That is a good question, because that is a question that we answer together. I think the most important thing is that we feel like we're ready. The DSO, in particular, must, of course, really work. We can only open that up once. If there are any doubts that make us think we can't guarantee that, then we just need to take a little extra time to make sure that ICT infrastructure is ready as well. Indeed, this ICT system, to which some of you referred and which we should not run away from, does not always have a flawless reputation, so to speak. Let us learn from this and let us make sure that we have a good feeling that the ICT infrastructure is also ready. I think we can only do this opening up once, and we must have confidence in each other. If we don't have that confidence, we're not gonna rush into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u51	Thanks to the Minister. However, are there any harsh criteria? I'm looking for something concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u52	Let me put it this way. I think that with the VNG, the IPO and the waterboards, we really need to feel that all the municipalities are ready. It is not possible for some municipalities to say that the DSO cannot yet enter into force. We're all gonna have to be ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u53	Then Mrs. Bezaan, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u54	Now the Minister's talking about feeling. However, I do not believe that feeling is really about harsh criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u55	I thought I was pretty tough saying that I thought they should all be ready. We will, of course, also have to get a clear picture of this, for example that all the municipalities are connected. We need to get an idea that in all these municipalities, the digital system actually works. Those seem to me to be very clear criteria. That is indeed more than a feeling. It is right that you should draw attention to this. All these municipalities need to be connected, and it has to turn around.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u56	I was confused for a moment because I thought there might be a lot more to come. I see the position of the city council in the decentralisation are part of this block. I thought there were a lot of questions about that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u57	I haven't answered that either, Mr President. I was only at the end of the general block and I now come to the position of the city council, then the environmental plan, then decentralisation, NOVI and transitional law. I have tried to answer a few of the questions raised by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u58	Okay, that's why there was confusion, but then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u59	I also meant you at the end of the first block. But you're at the end of the first part of the first block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u60	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I have a lot in store for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u61	My group has introduced into the debate that it is more about an DSO, which is connected. Now it seems that this is almost the case again with the withdrawal KB. I call on the Minister to indicate for the next few blocks what should be ready for the entry into force of the KB, as well as for all other subjects. Otherwise, every round comes up again with my colleague or myself to ask: what is ready before we have the KB entry into force in the summer? I'm asking her to answer that. That's gonna help us balance things out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u62	Maybe it's a good thing that I'm making a commitment now that I'm trying to add up all the things we've put together here and that we want ready for the RB, and that I'm going to go through that again with you, so that we all have a clear picture of that. Then we don't have to keep it all out of our heads, but then we make sure that we have a common image. I'm very attached to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u63	Then I suggest you finish block one now, as I thought we agreed, and then go back to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u64	Okay, Mr. Chairman. I now come to a number of cubes... or a number of folders with answers that deal with the position of the city council, the environmental plan, the decentralisation, the NOVI and the transitional law. Those are actually the blocks that together concerned your questions about the legal system. Then we go to the next block, which is about citizens and businesses in the system. Finally, I come to the questions about DSO, finance and support for its implementation. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the city council and, in particular, the discussions about the outdoor plans deviate. In your Chamber, the question arises as to whether the involvement of the city council is properly secured. The involvement is wider and better regulated than under current law. In the Environmental Act, B and W remain, as at present, the competent authority for the outdoor environment permit. Especially since a licence can cover many other activities, that is right. But as soon as the environmental plan is deviated from, the city council comes up with the possibility of a binding opinion, which B and W must follow. Such a binding opinion goes faster and better than the present statement of no reservations or the construction of advice and consent. The city council must indicate the cases in which it wishes to give a binding opinion. The city council also decides whether that is much or little. All designated cases are therefore submitted to the city council. The city council decides the procedure itself. For example, all cases can be discussed. It is also possible to choose a method in which cases can only be discussed if, for example, 30% of members so wish. If the city council has no reservations, there is no need to give advice. These cases can therefore be dealt with quickly. Furthermore, the involvement of the city council is no longer restricted by the Empire by the designation of crumbs. The city council will decide for itself what it estimates as crumbs and what it doesn't. This may vary from one municipality to another, depending on the sensitivities in certain municipalities. So that can be about more cases than under current law. The city council must, of course, weigh this carefully, but can always come back to that with new insights or after elections. In identifying cases, the environmental vision can also play a role, for example, by determining that only binding advice is required in cases that are not in line with the environmental vision. All ordinary political possibilities to control B and W are also of course available to the city council, such as the active and passive information obligation, interplay debate and so on. The city council can of course also identify all cases, but given the large number of cases, the internal decision-making process with the council members will undoubtedly have to be adapted. Not everything the city council always wants to see. But the city council can also agree on an information obligation with a standstill because of the discussion I had with the Labour Party about the emergency PMvB on the pfas............................................................................................................................................................................................ For example, the city council itself can make sure that it understands what is happening and can intervene in good time if it so wishes, without always having to process everything, for example in cases where it does not really need to. I'm just browsing through the answers not to say the same thing three times unnecessarily. The VNG has also published a brochure for municipal councils that specifically addresses the choices that municipalities can make when establishing their agreements on outdoor environmental permits. Then there's the environmental plan. Mr. Van Dijk asks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u65	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u66	Mrs Kluit, we actually agreed to interrupt at the end of the block, but you want to get through that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u67	The Secretary of State is going to the next block, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u68	Until NOVI and then the interruptions were, I thought, the deal. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u69	If Members would prefer to ask questions after each folder with answers to them, then in conjunction with the various points, this is also a good thing. This was the environmental plan. The next block is... eh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u70	Decentralisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u72	Fine. Let's do an environmental plan now. Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u73	No, position council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u74	Yeah, position council was this. The next block is the environmental plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u75	I have two more questions. The municipal councils can do a lot, but it also requires great expertise from the municipal councils to assess that themselves. You have just indicated that the counseling of municipal councils continues for longer. That is very nice, but perhaps you can give some further indication of what municipal councils should do if they want to change the rules as they go along.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u76	They could change that at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u77	Shouldn't that change the environmental plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u78	No, they can make agreements at any time with B and W on which licences, how they want to be informed and what role they want to play in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u79	Doesn't that have anything to do with the participation paragraph in the environmental plan or the environmental regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u80	No, they can really reschedule at any time. The city council can also choose to say: we let everything come first and then we will work out which categories no longer have to pass or for which only a notification obligation is sufficient. That's how a city council can decorate it. We will also actively inform municipal councils together with the VNG about how they can be involved and actively remind them of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u81	Mrs. Kluit, your third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u82	My second question is about the extravagant grandfather. It must be inserted into the environmental plan within five years. One of the critical points is that the full weighting is actually removed by means of a back door, because these extra-planning environmental activities can also involve very large things, which should then be inserted without weighing against the rest of the aspects of the environmental plan, without appeal and objection procedures for citizens. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u83	If an outdoor environment permit is issued, especially if it is a large one, then the city council would logically have knowledge of it. Then there has always been a moment of balance of interests and of possibilities for objection and appeal. So then there's no back door.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u84	I don't know if I understand correctly now, but if the city council has been sitting still, then this could be a jurisdiction of the B and W College and the city council doesn't necessarily have anything to say about it. And when they give a binding opinion, it is always afterwards and in my opinion it is only that permit and not the consideration of the total of the rest of the environmental plan or vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u85	Yes, but if the municipality then gives a binding opinion, then B and W have to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u86	Mrs. Kluit, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u87	But that binding opinion is about the desirability of the plan itself. That could be about other things. That's not about how that plan fits into the totality of the other plans that are in the environmental vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u88	But if the municipality approves such a plan, then it will always have to argue how that fits in with its broader planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u89	Then I will go to Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u90	I heard the minister say something and I just wanted to make sure I heard it right. The current regime is that the Board is competent to decide on the statement of no reservations, unless categories of cases are identified where this is not necessary. The new regime will be that the Board is not competent, unless cases have been identified for advice. The field has sometimes been critical: how can a council know in advance what one wants or doesn't want advice on? So it's actually kind of a hollowing out of the system. But now I hear you say that I would like to make it clear that the Council also wants advice on everything, and that can then be ended later. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u92	I saw you look up!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u93	I have a lot of pages here, and that was my interpretation of what I just said, but I wanted to check it out. That's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u94	Apparently, it is also about the position of the city council. In my speech, I pointed out the danger that democratic legitimacy would fall. Mrs Nooren has just mentioned this. It is an aspect explicitly mentioned in the opinion of the Council of State. I do not feel that we have been given more clarity in this discussion. I have heard that environmental services will be more often employed by municipal authorities. But to what extent do you agree or disagree with my group that there is a danger that a piece of technocratisation is creeping in and that it is really not going well with democratic legitimacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u95	I have started my input into this debate by saying that the issues that are currently taking place in the real world are changing over time, but not necessarily through the legislative system. But there are these issues. Sometimes these are about the weighting of very concrete interests between two citizens living side by side, sometimes they are about the complex balancing of interests between the extent to which you can impose a particular technology on a company, versus the profit that is made for it when it comes to the public health interest. One is a much more practical down-to-earth interest and the other is just a bit more technical in nature. It was, it is, and it will be in the future. The transition to the Environment Act does require an integral approach and therefore also says that you have to consider the different interests when coming to your decision. This makes it a more integral consideration of what is in the public interest. That doesn't make it more technocratic, that makes it more complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u96	I call Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u97	I also had a question about the dowry, Mr. Chairman. I have a very anxious feeling that we are not giving enough thought to the fact that municipalities have been forced into a dowry by more than 400 articles and that they all need to be looked at, and that even for years they are responsible for their content. I have now seen, in answering questions, that from your point of view a little light is being stepped over: one can do this step by step. Do I understand correctly that you believe that a city council can then piss out or change a little from that dowry and then change another pick, and that they have nine years to do it? It may be a little disrespectful, but I have to keep an eye on my words, but it's still a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u98	These are the rules which have now been imposed from a state point of view and which may not always be appropriate for all municipalities and provinces. If a municipality decides not to change anything, those rules will remain in place. For example, it contains standard values, but also limit values. If a municipality would like to modify a section, she can do it. She can then take a step-by-step decision with the city council on how they want to adapt that set to their local situation. In addition, there are again limits to the local balancing area. They get the whole package, so that there is no gap in any way, but they can then decide themselves over time, on the basis of democratic decision-making in the municipality, whether they want to change points in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u99	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u100	If I listen to it correctly, something can be decided 100 times in those nine years: one time about this article, the other time about that article. I do not know if Mr Otten is back by now, no, but he had already warned about an overload and a carousel of appeals. For for any change to the environmental plan one can appeal to the Council of State. So for every article that a city council thinks it's gonna throw out or change, we have such an appeal procedure. Is the Minister aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u101	Municipalities will only do it if they feel that it really pinches and that there is every reason to adapt it to the local situation, because that fits better than the rule that exists at the time. There is then a debate on this in the city council. If that turns out to be very restrictive, a municipality can always refrain from doing so and stick to the rule as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u102	Finally, Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u103	I understand, Mr. Chairman. Even if you delete the rule, you change the environment plan. So it's not just about adapting to the local situation. But also when you say: what good is that slope angle in a parking garage when it comes to the zoning outside area Barneveld? Then you delete that, but also that deletion is a decision whereby we have to follow the entire process of amending the Environmental Act, and which also involves appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u104	But this is a good example. Because why would the municipality of Barneveld, which is not planning to build a parking garage in the outskirts, put time and energy into removing such a rule that they don't run into? The city council will look very strongly at the rules they run into that offer the space to come to a better situation in the municipality with some customization. For that, it is worth going through such a procedure. On the contrary, it is important that the normal democratic control and remedies associated with it should apply to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u105	Then Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u106	My question is about the room for municipal councils to influence the decision-making process of the municipal administration. In reply to Mrs Kluit's question, the Minister says that the city council can always, if necessary, adapt every day. But shouldn't the basic position at first be that they talk about everything I asked a question about it and that they actually expand the possibilities? We're doing it the other way around: we give everything to the city council and that city council has to figure it out. In education, it often works the other way around: that's where you slowly find out what you're doing. My colleague just said in the benches: just like we take off some pieces here as hammer pieces and not all of them. It looks a little like it. Now you've done it the other way around: the city council must be very alert to the possibilities, even with all kinds of technical adjustments. Now you have to learn. What's that all about? You'll come to that, but this is just a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u107	I understand the question Mrs Nooren is asking. The point is, as a city council, you're actively weighing things up. In all cases it is ultimately therefore, because then you will determine materially that you use your time and energy in those cases where you want to be involved. I have already promised to actively inform the municipal councils together with the VNG. Not only once, but also with the implementation guidance, which I will come back to. Maybe that can be a way to make sure that that learning ability is there and that city councils also know what they can do, and that they can come back to that and possibly expand on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u108	But that doesn't answer my basic question yet. At the dowry you say very clearly: it comes in neutral and you have the space to change. My group's proposal is: you put it in such a way that municipal councils must actively put things out of play. We do not interfere with this rather than actively fighting their role. I have already mentioned once the option that the directors are also influenced by lawyers and advisers and say: do not inform that city council. If you want the Environment Act to live in society and in municipal councils, you also have to put energy and time in it to make them work. Then they still can't do anything, because it's a right of advice. Maybe for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u109	Exactly. I'll think about that for the second term. Ultimately, it's about the material effect. The question is whether you must change the law as it is now. But Mrs Nooren and I share the point that it is important that a very conscious consideration is made here and that also municipal councils at any time have the opportunity to come back to that, no matter how you make that appointment. Suppose you've agreed to 90%, then you can still believe that just those 10% were the things you want to be involved in. Then you should also have the opportunity to realize that commitment. So absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u110	I propose that we now try to deal with the three issues of environmental plan, decentralisation and NOVI and then do the interruptions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u111	Mr Van Dijk of the SGP asked: would it be better to give municipalities the space to tackle the environmental plan and in the meantime keep the old zoning plan? Municipalities have the space to work towards a coherent environmental plan as they see fit. This can be done in stages, by setting new rules for each subject or area. That can also be done in a big bang, by converting everything into the new method at once. In itself this can be done, but it would lead to a lot of administrative chaos if under the new law you could make it possible to change planning plans with old law. But given the fact that the choice is there to do it either phase by phase, or at once, that possibility is material in my view. Mrs Kluit van GroenLinks raised a question about open standards, authorisation-free activities and legal certainty for citizens. We have just talked about this. To what extent do open standards offer more space? What about balance sheet flexibility and legal certainty? Let me start with the use of open standards. It is up to the legislator himself to determine how rules are to be laid down and how a subject can best be dealt with. This can be done with a specific standard: here you can't go louder than 100 km/h. We can't say 130 km/h these days. But it can also be done with an open standard. One could say for example: it is forbidden to behave in such a way as to cause danger on the road or hinder traffic. When using a concrete standard there is immediately clarity, but you cannot provide everything with a concrete standard, because 100 km/h can still be dangerous, for example in the case of dense fog. Some subjects lend themselves better to laying down open standards. The legislator also determines whether a rule is directly binding or whether a licence obligation, a notification obligation or an information obligation is being used. The legislator chooses to do so. That is the case in the Environment Act, but that is no different from that in other jurisdictions. That goes for an environmental plan. It is no different there than the environmental regulation, the watership regulation, or any other regulation, law or AMvB. How does a company or a citizen know what he likes or what his neighbor likes? By consulting rules, a company or a citizen knows what he likes. This can be simpler in the case of rules that have been laid down in concrete and predictable terms. For example, when it comes to a destination, you know that only a detached single-family house can be built in two layers under a hood. Then you've made it very specific. But of course there are also destinations now where it is said that it can have a social, medical, social and cultural end. That is a concrete standard, but yes, it means that there can be both a church, a community center, a nursery, a doctor's practice and a legal aid shop. This is the current practice in the zoning plans. In that sense, that space is now there. At the time of establishing an environmental plan, however, it must be established that the possibilities offered are acceptable from the point of view of a balanced allocation of functions. Interested parties may appeal against an environmental plan if they consider that the possibilities offered are too wide. If you say "here can come both a nursery and a garage," then you're probably on the too spacious side. An appeal may then be brought against that decision. With the inclusion in the environmental plan of a permit scheme, the actual assessment of acceptability can be shifted to the moment of authorisation. I just mentioned two examples of activities that you may not necessarily want to have side by side. If one is already established there, you could choose to say: if there is a daycare center, then I do not want to establish a rest home for older people, who might suffer a lot from it. But you could also choose to say: I want to, because they really want to be around those kids. In that sense, you can weigh the possibilities yourself. The assessment rules ensure that any new activity is assessed in advance and that authorisation is only granted if the requested activity is also acceptable at the relevant site. An objection and appeal may be lodged by interested parties against an authorisation. The balance between legal certainty and flexibility has been called for. In practice, there will be no environmental plans with only open standards or only detailed standards. The practice requires customization. It is up to the city council to make good choices for each location in the surrounding plan. Citizens and businesses concerned can make their voices heard in participation opportunities, but of course they can also go to court if they believe that flexibility is too great. With very rigid rules you often see that a deviation from those rigid rules has to be argued. The use of open standards thus creates administrative discretion. This could, for example, put an objective of the rules at the heart of the matter, rather than the means prescribed in it. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked whether the transition phase would not lead to a patchwork of rules. Actually, that's exactly the situation we're in right now. In the current situation, there are several zoning plans, management regulations, modification plans, development plans, operation plans and integration plans per municipality. In addition, there are numerous local regulations laying down rules on the physical environment. Those rules exist side by side, but are not always aligned. I think Mrs Baay knows some examples of this. People and companies say: on the one hand, I have to do this from the rules and on the other hand, I have to do that from the rules. The transitional law provides for municipalities to have a single environmental plan at the time of entry into force, including current land use plans and other spatial rules. They are not fully aligned at first. That is precisely what comes out and that needs to be changed. It should be in one environment plan and unlocked by the DSO. The municipalities then combine these rules on the physical environment in a coherent way in the environmental plan. That's a job. That is why this is happening step by step. Municipalities have until 2029 to address the points in conflict. The existing patchwork is thus phased out into one coherent environmental plan. We really give the municipalities time, precisely because it can sometimes take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u112	Mr President, I have just lost my way. Did we have to wait until the block was finished, or can I ask the minister a question right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u113	I have two more answers in this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u114	The deal was until NOVI. Then we've had the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u115	I do have the NOVI. I still have decentralization and NOVI. I'll try to speed up. Mr Rietkerk gave a very good example of the development of the IJsseldelta-Zuid area. A large and complex project will be carried out under the Environmental Act with a project procedure. It does make it faster, doesn't it? The project decision shall specify which rules of the environmental plan are to be amended and what that change entails. Notification and participation shall make the information available in an accessible manner. This leads to faster, better and more transparent decision-making, but also to greater acceptance. We will discuss this later on on the subject of participation. The experience I have gained from discussions on major spatial interventions shows that the moment of participation is particularly important for people to really feel that they and their interests are being heard at a time when there is also something to be done about it throughout the decision-making process. Will municipalities be responsible for much more complex and integrated licence applications? No. Municipalities remain responsible for the substance of their decisions on applications for which they are already responsible. This is the case with environmental planning activities, construction activities, national monument activities and environmentally damaging activities. In the case of multiple applications, there may be activities in which advice and consent may have to be sought from the province or the Empire, but not only from municipalities. They coordinate that. If there is an objection and appeal, they coordinate it. If there is an appeal to a part of a decision in the province, for example, then the province is also present at the session. Actually, that's no different from the Wabo. Then I'll come to decentralisation. A number of Members have asked whether there is a decentralisation exercise such as in the social domain. This is not the case because there is no broad shift of tasks or powers in the Environment Act. The tasks in the physical environment are largely already decentralised. We've just been over that. Those tasks really belong to the core task for which municipalities are responsible. They shall be responsible for authorisation, supervision and enforcement. These cases have been with the local authorities for a long time. We decentralise a number of national rules, but these are mainly rules with real local effects such as sound, which also makes it important to be able to balance them locally in relation to the other interests. Through the dowry a proper transfer takes place. Then the NOVI, Chairman. The NOVI follows the philosophy of control of the Environment Act, where the primary responsibility for the establishment of the living environment is decentralised, just as it is now. The NOVI formulates a number of national interests and also makes national choices on the basis of balancing principles in different policy areas. The NOVI gives direction to make decentralised choices. Think of the preferred order of sun-PV or urbanisation strategy. It therefore provides a national framework with optimal room for decentralised tailor-made work, which we are strengthening even further at the moment. I have just referred to that. I'll send a letter to the House of Representatives about this shortly. I would like to send you a copy of this, given the importance and consistency with the current process. In this letter, I explain a number of important changes to the NOVI in relation to the draft NOVI, especially where we want to focus more on a number of national choices in the NOVI and where we want to give a little more direction to decentralised choices. We are dealing with a number of very large transitions. Then the sum of the decentralised choices is not always the optimum; think of the numbness. We'll see that happen to each other. We will have to agree on certain principles for this. Then it is not a question of the Empire determining it all again exactly for the decentralised level, but this does mean that the Empire is taking the lead in coming together to an adequate response to those common goals. If more direction of the Empire is needed, then the Environment Act also offers sufficient instruments for this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Nooren specifically asked about the objectives of the Climate Agreement. These include the generation of renewable energy in the NOVI. The Climate Agreement also agreed that the task of the RES should be integrated into the NOVI. The RES National Programme will guide the objective and set up an approach. The Minister for Economic Affairs coordinates this whole and thus also coordinates the question of whether the sum sum ultimately leads to the objective. In the NOVI we give further directions for how regions can make choices, for example the preference for wind at sea rather than on land. That is something we have recorded together in the NOVI, in order to reduce this land tax as much as possible. The preference for sunshine on the roof instead of sunbathing is also one of those that does justice to the importance of the agricultural area. The directions are given from the perspective of a good quality of the physical environment, with a preference for combining functions in a densely populated country like the Netherlands. This is an important task with all the functions we want to perform in this country. We take into account the identity of areas, but an important fact is also: do not transfer to elsewhere or later. The directions and preferred order are included in the RES manual. Should the goals not be met, the co-governments will agree a distribution system to still realize the 35 TWh, terawattuur. But the Minister for Economic Affairs is responsible for this. There is also coordination between the RES and the National Energy Main Structure Programme by ensuring that the energy infrastructure is properly connected. There are four tasks identified as priorities in the NOVI. These are room for climate adaptation and energy transition, sustainable economic growth potential, strong and healthy cities and regions, and a future-proof rural area. The other things have already been mentioned, I think. Mr. Van Dijk asked: how will the minister prevent directors from hiding behind higher agendas and strategies, thus liquidating democratic legitimacy? Not all the policies that directors make need to be formulated directly in the instrument of the Environment Act. So it is not all directly part of the legal structure. Sometimes it helps to take a policy intermediate step, which, of course, is also controlled politically and democratically, as with the environmental agendas referred to by the NOVI, or regional energy strategies. Local directors are also controlled in this policy by local democratic bodies. Local administrators also need a local mandate to be able to make regional agreements, just as, of course, Dutch officials or government officials with a mandate go to Brussels to negotiate there. This is a principle which is actually applied between the different levels of government. But these agendas and strategies do not contain rules that connect citizens and businesses. If agreements are made, then the policy must be translated into rules. This is done through the regular instruments of the Environment Act, such as the environmental plan and the waterboard regulation. In setting these rules, democratic legitimacy has been secured once again: the city council determines the environmental plan itself. In that sense there is also a lock on the door. If a director would go outside his mandate, he would not then pass his city council. Mr Rietkerk asked about the difference between, on the one hand, the EU directives which sometimes contain compelling balancing frameworks that the Netherlands should not deviate from and the national interests, all of which are of equal importance. Indeed, the European directives are mandatory and lead the way to national legislation. The NOVI must therefore comply with these European frameworks. There's no room to deviate from that. Within these frameworks, the national interests in the NOVI are basically equivalent and the cabinet wants every interest to come to its own. In it, the cabinet in the NOVI makes choices using the balancing principles. Those choices also mean that there are areas where one interest prevails on the other. For example, in the large ports and industrial areas, economic transport interests prevail, while nature interests prevail in nature reserves. In the NOVI we will come back to that as well. Mr President, that was up to the block of NOVI.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u116	I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answers on the NOVI and for looking ahead to the letter we received in February. We are still looking at the binding nature of the NOVI. It is, of course, binding on the national authorities, as the government determines them for the national authorities themselves. But how do you keep in mind that what you want nationally is actually realized at the rate you would want as a cabinet? And what are the moments to intervene, to adjust, to facilitate, to indicate? We can end that whole line-up for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u117	Renewable energy may be an example. As a cabinet, of course, we have agreed on a climate agreement in which we have also set an objective for renewable energy. Realising that renewable energy also has a spatial impact. As a Empire, you don't want to be completely topdown about where that should go. Regional energy strategies are thus also genuinely linked to the local choices and opportunities and options of the different regions. As much as possible is attached to that. Of course, the sum has to come together in the end to the amount that is needed. If this is left behind, the Empire can also consider whether the instruments in the Climate Act, for example subsidies for the generation of certain forms of energy, should be adjusted if that is the case. But in any case, an annual progress report on the entire Climate Agreement is sent to the Chambers. It makes sense whether we are on track to achieve these objectives. If that kind of monitoring of those objectives shows that you are not going to make it, then that is another reason to engage with the parties involved in achieving those objectives in order to see what needs to be strengthened, with all the instruments available. Keep monitoring whether the policy objectives are being met and sending the reports to the Chambers are, of course, also a way to keep an eye on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u118	It all sounds very logical in theory, but perhaps you speak like us people who are working on the regional energy strategy. This is due to the fact that municipalities do not agree with each other. I'm not gonna be very happy with these big tasks if it takes a year. So it sounds a little bureaucratic. The local drivers will say: give us more time and then we'll get out together. So it doesn't seem convincing that the speed that these files require is being achieved, because you're getting into the role-playing of the administration. Some other groups have also pointed this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u119	It is true that it is always difficult to keep pace with these kinds of transitions. I think that we have also seen in practice recently that this is the case. You can say you wanted this not to be, but you better try to see what we can use to achieve it. It's also good to see what the alternative would be. The National Coordination Scheme was, of course, a way in which we tried to fit it in. I can see Mrs. Nooren laughing. That was, shall we say, not an undivided success for the support for this kind of complex journey. We have to take account of the fact that these big transitions are just really complex trajectories that we have to work on with each other, precisely because they are always expensive and complex in nature. But the fact that all these parties are involved means that the Netherlands now has a Climate Agreement implementing the Paris Agreement, while a lot of fellow ministers I am speaking to abroad still have a lot of trouble getting to the point where we are already at. We have achieved this by always trying so much together in consultation and together to see how it can be done, even if that may sound a little bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u120	After Mrs Nooren's question, I have a supplementary question on the National Environmental Vision and the interests, for example energy transitions. You indicated that, if a national interest is at stake, there will be a national energy strategy. I think it will have to land in the NOVI. So we're looking forward to that letter from February. You indicated that the Minister for Economic Affairs would then be responsible for the elaboration. My question relates to the spatial instruments that we are talking about: what is the role of the Minister of Spatial Planning in connection with municipalities but certainly with provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u121	Let me not pre-empt too much the exact wording in the letter that is still to come. But I see that at the moment, in the spatial domain, there are a number of challenges that are not going to work themselves out. So I do think this is important, without falling into the mistake that we think that we know exactly how to deal with the country from The Hague via a kind of blueprint. That is why I referred to the concept of forwards. I think that's an important word. As a Empire, you can take the lead and lead in coming to a common use of space, which is by definition scarce in the Netherlands for everything we want. I will describe in more detail in that letter how I intend to decorate it, but I do think that the Minister of State or the Minister responsible for Spatial Planning may be in my pocket for a while, but that is another issue that should be a directing or coordinating role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u122	I hear you say that in the letter of February which we can look forward to, you also explicitly address the responsibilities in the decentralised system of spatial planning and the instruments and the connection between the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u123	I can make it even more complex, because, for example, the construction of infrastructure also has large spatial consequences across different regions. Climate adaptation also has large spatial consequences across regions. We also see soil decline and large housing losses and of course we are all familiar with the nitrogen problem. So there are just a lot of big transition issues at the moment. Once again, if we do not think about how they are linked, we cannot assume that we will come to an optimal or efficient arrangement. But it will not be a blueprint either, and there will not be one minister responsible for everything, because then we will get one "Minister of All Affairs." I don't think we've ever chosen that. In that letter we call it "the February letter" in popular terms, but the letter is coming this spring; I will not be tied up on an exact month...................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u124	I do not know whether it will be dealt with under the heading of legal protection, but I have asked two specific questions. One question was about codification in order to establish the obligation for policy rules and the other was about codification in relation to the principle of trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u125	That's gonna be in the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u126	That comes with legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u127	Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u128	I had asked a number of questions about the timing of the implementation of the Environmental Act, particularly in view of the hustle and bustle of the local authorities and of the case law. Is that under this cup or under another cup?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u129	That'll come later, too. I've tried to do it somewhat coherently, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u130	Assuming that we are going to introduce the Environment Act in 2021, the municipalities will have until 2029 to implement all the software and regulations. That's exactly what my question saw. How does it work if one municipality is completely in order in 2025 and the other is only at the end of 2028? Isn't there a huge contradiction, especially in neighbouring municipalities and in one province?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u131	I will come back to that at the DSO, but everyone has to be ready for the basic level by 2021, so there is no difference in that. When adapting the environmental plan, one municipality may want to look at the rules on noise more closely, while others do not think it is necessary yet, but it is really about the local effects. Then it is not necessarily important for the next municipality what happened there. In addition, all interested parties should be justified at all times how their interests have been taken into account. I do not see conflicts there, because municipalities themselves can set the pace for adjusting that dowry, because that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u132	The Minister responded to my suggestion to give municipalities some room to tackle the environmental plan thoroughly and, in the meantime, to keep the possibility of adapting the old zoning plan. She said quite clearly that this leads to administrative chaos. I understand that this is a rather complicated point, but it's just what kind of administrative chaos we want to have. I fear that the step-by-step approach now proposed can also lead to administrative chaos, because municipalities are going to come up with escape routes or issue derogations. For the sake of clarity, the following question to the Minister. In my opinion, it is very pointy and clearly formulated by the professor Frans Tonnaer in a white paper for the knowledge bank VIND Environment Affairs. My question is whether you can give a second reflection on that white paper. I imagine the Minister doesn't have all this in her head, but maybe he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u133	I do remember a beautiful quote from the book De barbararen, by my mind: if we never went to change, Mozart would have played on the street all his life, because his music was considered incredibly modern and therefore inexhaustible. I must say that I do not dare to answer this white paper out of my head, so we will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u134	I would like to thank the Minister for the promise that there will be a letter strengthening the NOVI. I asked for this in the first term, so that is a very good commitment. My question concerns the following. In reply to Mr Rietkerk, you indicate that international obligations will always be guiding and that we will take care of them nationally. Our group is not entirely satisfied with the international obligations with regard to nature. In the House of Representatives, we tried to secure the favourable state of conservation of nature better in the Environment Act by means of an amendment, but that was not possible there. I know that this is the policy area of your colleague Minister Schouten, but well, you are also here on behalf of the government. In any case, know that our group will ask further questions about this in the debate on the Supplementary Nature Act, because we very much attach importance to the policy-neutral conversion of nature issues into the Environment Act and that we will not lose protection. If you want to respond to that in the second term, we are also fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u135	It is indeed a point that would also be appropriate to discuss the content of the Supplementary Track on nature, but I recognize the point made by the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u136	Thank you. Then my proposal is to see if the block of participation, legal protection and others can be done in one go. Is that in line with your plan, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u137	I can see that I still have two points here which are actually part of the legal system, namely the loss compensation and the environmental impact assessment. I know that these are important points for a number of groups, so let me mention them before I move on to the second block. Questions were asked by the groups of D66, CDA and in particular the SGP. There is a good balance between space for new development and protection of owners and businesses. The main aim of the scheme is to provide clarity, not to shorten the compensation, but to make that clear. One example is the 4% flat rate, to which various groups have referred. This applies only to damage caused by an activity in the area, e.g. the construction of a residential/care complex opposite a home, which is called indirect damage. Unlike the SGP Group, I think it is important that indirect damage can still be compensated. If existing rights are changed, e.g. for the disposal of construction potential, i.e. direct damage, it is also important that the flat rate does not apply. The fixed legal deduction is included in order to provide more clarity in advance about the amount of compensation. On the basis of the case law and the General Administrative Law, there is already a deduction, but in advance it is unclear how high that deduction is. Under the Spatial Planning Act, it is now at least 2%, but it can also be more, and that is often more. Often disadvantaged people only hear what the deduction is after lengthy procedures. The amount of 4% is in line with what is now used in the case law and with the principle that only excessive damage is compensated in the Netherlands. Another important proposal relates to the desire to create more flexible environmental plans, as Mrs Moonen rightly points out. That is the move from the time when a claim for compensation is submitted to activity or permit. If a plan is more flexible, it is only when the permit is issued that you will know what is really being done and whether it will lead to damage. Now damage is determined when drawing up the plan. This involves all the theoretical possibilities of a plan in determining the damage, but soon the damage will be determined in the case of authorisation or at the start of the activity. In concrete terms, it is real damage that is actually being suffered, but we do not have to take into account all kinds of damage from things that will never actually cause real damage. For example, a mixed zoning plan with destination and retail must now take into account a residential tower and a supermarket and compensate for that damage. Soon it will be when it's chosen whether it's going to be a supermarket or a residential tower, because that can make a big difference to what kind of damage you have to pay for. Citizens shall be entitled to compensation if an adverse activity occurs. This measure remains very clear, but only on the basis of what is decided in concrete terms on what kind of activity is being carried out there. Shadow damage is not being compensated at this time. This is the damage that can be caused by policy making and the preparation of projects, such as the construction of a national road. The project, as it were, casts its shadow ahead. There is no such arrangement now. That's it about the damage. I thought: perhaps this is such a technical subject to answer the questions separately and then I will go to the EIA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u138	This is still part of the first block, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u139	Technically, it is, but I'm trying to make it a little bit easier for myself. I'm trying to follow what the minister says. The next practice is going to be that citizens and businesses are getting shadow damage and indirect planning damage more than they are now without compensation. I believe that this is a point which the Council of State made very critically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u140	Shadow damage is not being compensated at the moment and neither is under the Environmental Law, so that doesn't change. It is now for a long time unclear what the forfait is; at least 2%, but it can also be more. Then it could be a long time before you have any clarity about what it's forfeit. It's just gonna be 4%. You'll know that in advance. That also fits with the system that you only pay excessive damages. The adjustment of this scheme is in line with the desire to provide more flexibility in the context of the environmental plans. If you say it could be a residential tower, a parking garage or a supermarket, you'll have to pay for three damages now, while you'll only pay for the choice you make. It also offers municipalities some protection to compensate only for damage that is actually suffered. And it is also just reimbursed; people are just entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u141	My question to the Minister is: what about the application of disadvantage compensation and compensation in case of loss of value of real estate in mining? Then we often talk about mining activities where the State is the initiator. I think that is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u142	Sure, but I would like to come back to that in the second term, because what that means to this extent of detail in mining... I can imagine that there are specific arrangements for this, including in the context of Groningen, or that there have been specific considerations. I'll see if we can get back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u144	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the environmental impact assessment, especially the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but also a number of other important issues. The concern of GroenLinks, if I translate him equally freely, was that no environmental impact assessments would be carried out, or perhaps not of sufficient quality, where this would have to be done for careful consideration. Let me put it this way: my conclusion is that we should at least monitor how that develops. Because we can have all kinds of images in advance, and I can counter all kinds of things, but I think that in many of these kinds of points where we find that there may be questions, we need to keep a close eye on them in the monitoring. But perhaps there is a slightly more substantive answer to how things are now arranged. An EIA should be created for all plans and projects that can have significant environmental impacts. The type of projects and plans subject to an EIA obligation is the same under the Environment Act as under the Environmental Management Act. Therefore, it is not expected that fewer or more EIAs will be created under the Environmental Act compared to the Environmental Management Act. In the case of plans and programmes, the Commission's review opinion, including: mandatory. This is also in line with the European directive on this subject. The competent authority can assess the quality of the EIA in a project, not in the case of a programme or plan but in the case of a project. Of course, they can still volunteer to the legally secured Commission m.e.r. enable. My colleague, the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State, has commissioned research into the quality and quantity of the EIA and will soon inform the Chamber about this research. However, as I have already said, I would like to continue to follow this closely in the course of the implementation of the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u145	Thank you for this commitment. I have one more clarifying question. We are therefore monitoring and evaluating the independent review, so to what extent that is still happening and is developing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u146	Yeah, we can do that. See, it's also interesting to see whether the Planning Agency for the Environment, which monitors the final effects on the living environment and the like, also sees differences in practice, or what it ultimately produces in the living environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u148	Then there was a specific question from the SP, which was about the generic obligation for seveso companies and the provision of financial security, a subject that Mr Janssen and I discussed together when we both had a different hat. Yes, I intend to. The cabinet intends, also following the von Martels/Van Eijs motion, to strengthen the financial security regulations for heavy risk companies, for heavy risk companies the power, the can-determine, will be converted into an obligation to provide financial security. This will be achieved through a separate amendment of the Environment Decision. I have already informed the Chamber about this, but I am still having that debate with the Chamber. But there is also a motion for a resolution on this. The revision license. In fact, Mr Janssen's question is: will the burden of proof be shifted before we go into all the technical aspects? No, the evidence doesn't shift. The automatic revision permit is used under the Environmental Act to clean up several permits granted. As at present, the competent authority also regularly examines under the Environmental Act whether the permit meets current technical requirements and the applicable environmental standards. If the licence is no longer up-to-date, the competent authority shall amend the licence. This is often combined with the revision permit, but it is just as it is now a separate competence. The assessment of the need for justification or new techniques is not modified under the Environmental Act. As at present, the competent authority uses the BAT conclusions from Europe and information documents on best available techniques. For lovers: supplied in Annex 18 of the Quality of Living Environment Decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u149	My question is very specific. If we are talking about a revision permit, it is not enforceable at the present time. You can ask a company to apply for a revision license, but you can't force it. My question was very specific: is the revision permit under the Environment Act now an automatic aggregation of everything there is, cleaning up? But can you also impose new BAT requirements, or can you only merge what is at the time? If, on the other hand, you have to change the licence, you cannot automatically impose those requirements unless it goes very far. So you're dependent on a company's application for a permit. So my question is: can you in the revision permit that's there now, if you're going to merge everything that's there, it's become wood-rope now also make new demands in the context of BBT, or can you just merge what's already there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u150	Let me see if I have just received any further information on this, because this is a very specific one. You're also updating the license, that's possible. So just like now. If the licence is no longer up-to-date, you can also change the licence as a competent authority. But in my opinion, your question was: before the permit expires and you want to revise, can you bring an actualization, even if the company hasn't requested it at the time? That was actually the question. I'm going to get back to that in the second term, so I'm sure we've answered this very well in detail. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore at the end of the reply on the legal system. I would now like to go to citizens and businesses in the system. There I have three sub-blocks: participation, legal protection and a few other questions. I can imagine that, after participation, we are doing the interruptions, because this issue has been so explicitly raised by many Members. Questions have been asked by several MPs about participation. You are concerned about the citizen's position in participation: can vulnerable groups find their way; is there a sense that not everyone participates equally easily; does not this mean that a part of democratic law is lost if someone does not participate? Questions have also been asked about the role of the judge: should legal requirements be imposed or not? Mr. Chairman. Participation is really important. I would like to give you one example from my own experience. As a Member of Parliament, I was also responsible at some point for energy policy and power lines. Before I went on vacation we had a debate with the Minister, which was about a high-voltage power line that would run through Brabant to connect a large wind farm in Zeeland. We needed an increase in the power grid. Everyone understood that that was necessary and that you couldn't overload the net. After lengthy procedures, it was decided that the high-voltage grid would run along the north side of Brabant. We came back from vacation, and at one time it was folded to the south side of Brabant. Then people suddenly thought, "Hey, what happened here?" Then we had a lot of ideas about that near Breda and Oosterhout.I was there with them too.If it has to come here, don't let it run past this school, but let it run right through the woods. Those people, despite being of course unpleasantly surprised, had very concrete ideas on how to fit that in their environment. But that was still very difficult, and it took debates in the Chamber with the Minister to really give those ideas, that citizens' initiative, a place in that very complicated process, once you are planning such an extensive journey. I have more of these examples, but what I consider to be the great advantage of the changeover to the Environment Act is that participation, that participation of people, is taken to the front of the decision. Because at the front of the decision, you're still thinking a lot: what line would we be able to run this high voltage line? Then maybe nobody in particular is waiting for it, but Dutch people sometimes understand that things have to be done, but they just really want to be heard and want to see their arguments, their concerns, and also their ideas, taken on board at the moment that something can really be done with it. People want to feel like they're being heard, more than they're getting right. I think that's what you hear about participation and we're taking a big step forward with the Environment Act. Governments should involve stakeholders at an early stage in a decision-making process on an activity to get early interests and opinions, but also creativity on the table. That means that anyone who has an opinion, an interest or ideas gets a chance to participate. It's not an obligation. Like now, we will see that no one will ever want to participate. The other day I got an invitation to come by one night about parking policy with me in the neighborhood. I didn't have time for that. I was preparing for this debate, but I also thought it would work out: I have confidence in the people who are making a decision on this and I am sure they will do it in a good way with each other, so I am conscious of it. But I knew it was and that is of course also an important part of participation: knowing that you have the opportunity and when you have the opportunity. In this whole system, participation is not an obligation for citizens, but it is a plus on legal protection and, very importantly, it does not replace legal protection. There are therefore no implications for legal protection if you decide not to participate. That doesn't mean you can't stand up for your interests after that. Participation is not a prerequisite for making use of this legal protection. The possibilities to present a view remain with a draft decision. They just apply to everyone. The possibilities for objection and appeal also remain: for all interested parties, whether or not participation has taken place. The judge will always assess, in the case of apple-labeled decisions, whether the competent authority has carefully weighed all interests. The competent authority will also have to monitor the interests of the silent majority. However, the moment of participation offers more room for real involvement of citizens, of active citizens. I think we all see in society that more and more people want to participate. The environmental law and the DSO improve the position of citizens in relation to the current situation. It is easier for citizens to understand what rules are in force and it is easier for them to see what can and cannot be done through the DSO. What I personally consider to be extremely important is accessibility at the B1 language level. Some of you referred to the fact that you could have some kind of new division if you weren't careful. It is precisely that B1 language level that makes it understandable for people who may not know directly that they have to think about a tree in a "vertical wood rebellion" which is what the rules are about. Let us not underestimate with each other how important it is that people feel that by understanding the language they have more control over what is happening in their living environment. The Environmental Act now prescribes participation. There will soon be legal rules on participation for all instruments. For example, the competent authority must explain to the decision whether and, if so, how participation has taken place. Initiators must do the same when applying for a licence. I had a conversation with the National Ombudsman, a very good conversation, by the way. I'm also very grateful to him for the work he's done. We have agreed to continue working together in the further process of implementation, precisely to identify and start working on signals needed in the further implementation in the coming years. The National Ombudsman has drawn attention to the citizens who are not naturally at the table. That is also a point that some of you mentioned, including Mrs Baay of 50PLUS and Mrs Nooren. That is a right point of attention. The government stands for a good service and cannot just assume that everyone is self-reliant. In my conversation with the Ombudsman, we agreed that special attention should be paid to groups that are difficult to reach, so that not only the groups that have always been there are at the table. The National Ombudsman wants to use his knowledge and expertise in the preparation of the Environment Act. The competent authority is responsible for identifying the different interests and must take them into account when defining policies and taking decisions. Fortunately, I already see many good examples, such as municipalities going to community centers, old people's homes or sports clubs to check opinions or to use an app to involve young people more. Experiences are widely shared by the implementation programme Getting started with the Environment Act. Together with other provisions on participation, the application requirement does raise awareness among initiators. Also as initiator, you are not obliged to participate. Sometimes you can't expect that at all. Think of someone who lives next to a boxing school and thinks: maybe my relationship with that boxing school isn't such that I'm gonna ask them how they feel about my rooftop chapel. So it's not a requirement, but you have to state if you did it. Because if you did and all your neighbors say it's totally fine, that could be involved in the assessment. In their application, initiators can explain that, for example, there are no objections in the neighbourhood. That's a win in itself. However, the competent authority will ultimately assess, prior to the decision, whether all interests have been identified. PvdA-Kamerlid Verheijen has requested that consideration be given in the implementation programme to the importance of a good information position for citizens in participation pathways and to ensure the quality and accessibility of data in the Digital System in the implementation legislation. Of course we're carrying out that motion. We do this with the Inspiration Guide Participation and the communication toolkit Environment Act. I have reported on this in the response to the Supplementary Law. Among other things, I have indicated that, unlike today, regulation in the Digital System is already unlocked in one place as much as possible: in the DSO. Citizens and initiators will thus be able to easily see which rules apply at a location. It is also important to show all the rules of all government battles, and that is new. There is also the possibility to filter by activities. This function will be further refined and expanded in the coming years. For example, if you want to establish a garage company, you can filter only the rules that are important if you want to establish a garage company. You don't have to go out there yourself in all those AMvBs and regulations to get through all the rules that apply to you. If the citizen wants to implement an initiative himself, should he participate more than before? Actually, that's not so bad. If you want something near you right now, it's also perfectly normal for you to sort it out with your neighbors. That's basically normal traffic. If a citizen wants to implement an initiative, he can now indicate in the application whether and, if so, how he has involved the environment and what he has done with the results. It's not new. Some municipalities help their citizens. For example, the municipality of The Hague offers residents who are going to remodel a toolkit. It contains communication tips, a roadmap and also examples of letters, posters or postcards, which you can use to inform your neighbors that you are going to remodel and when that might cause trouble. What is new is that citizens can indicate in the application what they have done in terms of participation and what results they have achieved. This does not mean that participation determines the decision taken by the competent authority. It's a plus. It is not as such the only ground on which a competent authority takes its decision. It can take the information into consideration and, of course, ask questions to see how certain it is that it all went in a good way. A number of MPs who were actually broad asked why no minimum requirements for participation were laid down. I understand the attractiveness of that idea, because you also want the participation to be properly designed. That is why, in my discussion with the Integral Advisory Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I made this question explicit: should we do so, yes or no? The committee said no. That was very clear advice. They said participation is custom-made and that location, nature and size are different each time. Whether there is a garage company on an industrial site in a large city or on the outskirts of a village in a quiet area makes a difference. So you can't say that you have to make a certain participation for a garage company by definition. In addition, new innovative digital opportunities are emerging. If you go to lists too much, you can also come up with a check-off list that eventually makes you feel like the quality of that participation has been really good. On the other hand, I really understand your concern. In particular, the Labour Party was clear about this. She said that you don't want a municipality to start thinking about how it's gonna organise the participation at the time the first big programme project comes along or how it's gonna find out afterwards that it hadn't been properly thought out. I think it is quite logical to ask those competent authorities to think about this in advance and to define policies on how they want to deal with participation in their municipalities in the issues that are at stake there. I will come back to the question of whether there is any legal basis for this. You asked me how the judge will test participation. If a citizen considers that his interest is not sufficiently taken into account, he can bring it to court. This applies to the environmental plan, but also to the permits and enforcement decisions. The judge shall review on the basis of an appeal lodged. In doing so, it shall review applicable rules and general principles of law, such as careful preparation and strong justification. That will not sound new to you, because those are the existing familiar principles before the courts. If it is argued that there is insufficient opportunity to put forward the interest and if the decision does not take sufficient account of all the interests, this could lead to the annulment of the decision. If a city council has made use of the possibilities to identify cases of out-of-plan environmental activities, where participation has been made compulsory by the applicant, the court may also assess whether the criteria or policies laid down for that purpose have been correctly applied. The city council can lay down criteria for this in policy rules. Moreover, the possibilities of appeal remain the same. As under current law, there is one appeal body. But let's get back to the policy rules on participation. Currently, the law on strengthening participation at decentralised level is in consultation. This provides for the extension of the current public participation regulations in the Municipal Law, Province Law and Waterschapswet. That's an immediate answer to a question. It is therefore wider than the participation regulation. But it is true that this bill, which is currently in consultation, is likely to enter into force later than the Environment Act. I can very well imagine that, given the important role of participation in this Environment Act, your Chamber would like us to make this more explicit in this Environment Act. We've been puzzled a little bit about how that might be possible. I would like to undertake, in anticipation of the law, to include a similar obligation in the implementation decision. This will then take the form of an obligation to state reasons, indicating the extent to which the local, defined and published participation policies have been complied with. In doing so, we have found a way to oblige the competent authorities to define and publish local policies and then to justify how they have been taken into account in decisions. In doing so, it forces us to make choices and make policy rules. We are not going to record from The Hague how everyone should do it, but we are going to record that everyone needs to think about how they want to do it in their situation, in advance, before we start working on the complex plans and pathways. This creates a two-stage rocket: now linked in the Environmental Act and soon broad in the organic laws. I can still promise that I will be working with the UNG for this summer to set out the success factors, objectives and associated values and conditions for participation. Of course, I am going to bring this to the attention of municipalities and other relevant organisations. I can also promise that I will encourage public authorities to pay explicit attention to the involvement of target groups that are normally underrepresented in participation, monitor how participation develops and then decide in the evaluation of the Environment Act whether other or further requirements would still be necessary. There were a number of detailed questions, but I think I have already answered many detailed questions with this general introduction. I'll look through it for a while, but I think I'm a long way off with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u151	In the block of participation. Is that correct, Minister? Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u152	Let me begin by thanking the Minister for the power of thought and the fact that she actually sees the added value of participation. Sometimes the answer is again about an active citizen who can find something in the DSO. The point is that all interests are well weighed, but that people are also actively approached. Well, then I'm afraid a boxing school doesn't have to do anything because he doesn't get along well with the neighbor. You always have a duty to weigh the interests and give people the opportunity to participate and assert themselves. Otherwise everyone can say: no, we didn't apply participation, because my neighbor is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u153	You shouldn't want to improvise too much on your own footage that you happen to have from a boxing school you once lived near.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u154	Certainly not with such good preparation. We are still looking for the answer to our question. We believe it is important for the competent authority in the city council, in the provincial states or in the general administration of the waterboard to adopt a participation regulation. I don't quite know how it gets there, but maybe the Minister can put it on paper for our second term. Then we can weigh it up for a while, see if it fits in with that. That is the first request I have to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u155	Yeah, I'd be happy to. It's a bit of a detour, isn't it? In my view, we want them to define the way in which they want to shape participation. In addition, you also referred to publication "Published" must have been published, so that everyone is clear about the policy rules that have been agreed. Those two elements are in there. We have put this on the basis of the fact that they still have to justify by decision how they have complied with it. But you can only do that if you've established and published something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u156	Then I have a more substantive question in the field of legal protection. Following the written replies, we asked whether participation was a basis for annulling a decision. The Minister says that's the consideration of an interest. But a judge often looks at the individual interest. What about the greater importance of me as a housing seeker in a municipality? My individual interest is, of course, rather small in relation to the collective interest of an economic interest. What's the deal with each other? In the written replies it is very clear that participation is not a separate ground for objection. Participation is no basis for a judge either. It's weighed in multiple interests. That means you have a very nice structure to talk to, but then participation is not shaped. Then the judge has to weigh all interests and so participation is nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u157	A couple of points. I just gave the example of getting involved in front. Participation has its own value in practice, regardless of how it is anchored in the legal process. If participation were to be given too heavy a legal component, it would immediately be a disadvantage for those groups that do not easily achieve the same participation as the people who do. That is why I believe that we have struck the right balance by institutionalising participation in this way. For certain things it is mandatory to do it. But also, for example, it is not necessary to impose such a heavy burden on individual promoters that everyone must be constantly working on it only in order to achieve their rights. Interests may not have come out well during participation. Mr Rietkerk also asked how the administrative judge will judge this on the basis of a number of articles of the General Administrative Law Act. If an administrative body has not sufficiently taken into account the interests in its decision, the decision is not sufficiently reasoned. In that sense, it therefore plays a role. If there has been a very active participation and it has been completely dismissed, the court has extra ground to say: you have not motivated why you have not done anything with all the results that have emerged from the participation. Then the decision can be destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u158	Maybe we're getting too legal, but that's what we're here for. A decision can only be destroyed if a rule of law has been broken. That brings me to the next question. In all speed you read something about a commitment how you wanted it. I heard something about policy rules. But a policy rule cannot in itself oblige a citizen to do anything. The basic question is: is there, in whatever proposal you are thinking of, and that is the question that Mrs Nooren is asking: is there an obligation for citizens, an initiator or anyone, to provide information on whether or not they have participated? That's what the Environment Act says. Then he says, no, I didn't. Then we're done talking. That can never be a legal reason to blame the government for not picking something right. That is also a reaction to Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u159	We agree. A petitioner must state whether he has taken part in the participation yes or no. There is no obligation to participate. The competent authority will, once it has participated, be able to take that information into account in its consideration of all interests. The judge can check whether the competent authority has done so correctly. If there is extensive information from the participation and the competent authority does not take that into account at all, someone can say: listen, I have delivered everything and it has not been taken into account at all. Then the judge will check whether that's right or not. The competent authority itself may be obliged to participate for some routes and then again the question is how this is taken into account in the weighted balancing of all interests, including the silent majority. Those who did not participate in the participation are therefore not necessarily out of play. The competent authority will have to justify how all interests are well weighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u160	Then we understand each other well. It is about the route in which public participation is organised. If I understand correctly, it's all about participation in that Environment Act. It should not be the government, but it should be done before and people should get to work together; not with that boxing school, or you should be able to duck well. But anyway, people need to talk to each other. In order to do so, amendment has subsequently included in the Environment Act the obligation that if there has been participation, you must inform it with your application. But the basic question remains of course: is there not only the obligation that the government can have, in the context of careful research, participation, etc., but is there also an obligation for the applicant, the initiator to take steps there? I've always understood from all the good stories that they kind of assume that, but I don't read it in the law. And I heard the minister say something about policy rules. That's beautiful. When it comes to policy rules, someone who makes policies says: that is what the citizen is supposed to do. But a policy rule can never lead to an obligation to do so. That is why I want to be absolutely clear about this. In fact, if there is no obligation at the moment and can be imposed on the citizen to enter that route, a lot of beautiful leaflets talk about participation, but in my opinion it is not legally regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u161	Let me get my folder. There are two main blocks. In the first one, an individual who wants to build a roof chapel indicates whether he has participated, yes or no. That's not mandatory for a rooftop. The government is obliged to do so for certain routes. There are also certain categories of decisions for which participation is compulsory. So it's not completely black and white, but it's not mandatory to do it for every rooftop chapel. But it is mandatory for certain major projects. I still have a whole table in which what is and what is not written is neatly written. We can also forward that table to the Chamber for the second time. Maybe that'll help clarify things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u162	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the substantive support section. (For inspection of the Department of Substantive Support under Registry No. 166239.)
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u163	You will have the floor at this point the last time, Mr Nicolaï. After that, I really need to ask you to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u164	I am pleased with that table, but at least I do not hear an answer to my question. My question is, what's the deal? Is it now legal that, under circumstances, initiators are actually obliged to follow that participation path? Perhaps it is better to come back to this in the second term, because this is a rather difficult subject. And it's so intertwined with those beautiful flyers we've all read. I always wonder if under those leaflets there is a legal reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u165	Municipalities can also identify certain cases. However, since it is quite a complex whole, I propose that, in the second period, I explain how we see it, in conjunction with the proposal I made at the request of a number of political groups that something should be anchored in this legislative system. I will therefore say what there is or may not be obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u166	The Minister has just mentioned in a commitment that decisions should also be published. Does this apply only to digital publication? May I express the hope that it will also be published on paper, for example in the local newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u167	This actually affects a wider issue. How do we ensure that decisions by the government and the competent authority are simply known, not only for the people who are used to collecting their information digitally, but also for people who are not used to it? There's a separate bill on electronic government communications. I believe that the obligation for municipalities falls into that bill. But in that context, Minister Knops has indicated that he will certainly ensure monitoring. Doesn't this lead to trouble? There is still an obligation to ensure that low-level teachers and digibetes are able to learn about public communication to a sufficient extent. For example, they should be able to get free payouts at the town hall and the like. So Minister Knops is going to monitor whether the system currently in place is sufficient to ensure adequate accessibility and awareness of the rules for those people as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u169	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that the municipalities themselves should draw up a participation rule or scheme. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment to examine whether all relevant citizens are involved in the participation process, and that the discussion on this will also take place. I know from experience that this requires a great deal of effort. But that effort also pays off very much. I share the Minister's view on that point. I would like to have one other commitment. In my contribution I also mentioned the quality of the participatory process. Can the Minister promise that the evaluation will look into this? Why am I asking this? As a manager, I know how difficult that is, and how gifted some people are to pretend it's a participatory process, while old-fashioned power processes play a major role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u170	I totally agree with the analysis. That's exactly why we need to be careful about ticking lists. You shouldn't pretend to have participated when you've sent an e-mail, or if you've organized a residents' evening when no one knew and no one could find it. Then you didn't participate. It's really in quality. So I am very motivated to pay attention to that quality, and also to share the best practices that we can discover in it. In particular, we must focus on the quality of participation. Because only good quality participation really gives people the experience that they are heard by the government, and that their interests are really heard and involved in the considerations that are being made. That's the essence of why we're actually doing all this with each other. I am therefore happy to be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u171	I thank the Minister for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u172	I suggest we give the Minister the opportunity to make a few more meters. Are we ready for the issue of legal protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u173	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I have another file on legal protection. Then comes the last big block, about the DSO, finance, implementation support and implementation. Mr. Chairman. Laws need to be clear. Sure. But we also come back to the balance between closed standards versus flexibility. We have talked about the fact that there is, of course, an optimum. If you have a very strict standard, you may have to deviate from that very often. A flexible standard with clear frameworks can then ultimately give the same degree of certainty. The issue of the financing and workload of justice has been discussed. I think that is a very valid point. We all think it is extremely important that we regulate participation well, but that on the other hand we always have opportunities for work. Then the question is: what does this transition mean for the financing and burden of justice? A number of questions have been asked about this, by the SP, the PVV, the PvdA, and a number of other groups have, in my view, also drawn attention to this. That certainly has my attention. That attention has had it from the beginning. Together with my colleague for Legal Protection and the Council for Justice, we discussed the possible impact of the Environmental Law on justice. In doing so, we must distinguish between, on the one hand, whether we expect structural costs to be incurred, and, on the other hand, the fact that there is always a phase of a certain degree of uncertainty during the transition, which can also result in additional costs. I think that the latter is very real and that we should simply take that into account. Instead of making all kinds of forecasts when we are not sure how it is going to work out, I have chosen, in consultation with my colleague for Legal Protection and with the Council for Justice, to monitor the consequences, to keep an eye on structural effects. We do expect that justice will have to deal with transition costs for some time, for example because new case law needs to be formed. We have also made additional money available in the price agreement for the period 2020-2022. I don't know the exact amount right now. But we're making a distinction. On the one hand, there are structural effects. There may be different images about that, but we agreed that we will continue to monitor those effects. If there's a need, we'll definitely sit around the table. And on the other hand, you know that a transition period can always lead to additional questions. That is the case with every change, and we also make extra money available for this. Mrs Kluit asked whether working with open standards might also lead to additional questions. That is actually part of the question of whether this will result in additional structural burdens. The case law has already gained extensive experience in testing open standards. It is therefore not the case that the Environment Act should necessarily make the judge more intrusive. Then there is Mrs Baay's question about municipalities that are at different speeds in different areas and whether this can lead to legal proceedings. I hope I can take that care away. The number of court cases is mainly motivated by the concerns surrounding a new activity, such as cutting a tree or building a building in front of their home. They are not going to sue because different rules or other concepts apply in a neighbouring municipality. Within the municipality, uniformity improves, because it goes from all those plans to one plan. But if a different rule is applied in a neighbouring municipality, it is often not important or so much a reason for someone in municipality A to proceed to trial. And if there really is a clear interest, then as an interested party you can just take your role in it, but then again you have nothing to do with rules in municipality A than those in which you live. In that sense, one set applies. Can the Minister confirm that the possibilities of establishing appeal grounds against the environmental plan are one-on-one equal to the appeal grounds against the current zoning plan? Yes. The scope of the environmental plan shall be extended in relation to the zoning plan. In this sense, even more grounds can be put forward and legal protection will be extended. What lessons does the Minister draw for the division of roles in the physical domain and the design of the Environment Act? That was a question from Mrs Nooren. The Environmental Act has an instrumental character, as is the Law on Spatial Planning and many other administrative legislation. The question of how the Empire should direct spatial policy is of all times. There is also a certain wave movement to be discovered. The Environment Act is designed to move with those waves and therefore offers both the tools for a restrained role and for a sharper control. We have just discussed this in the context of the NOVI. And, of course, there is always the framework up to and including an integration plan. All these instruments of administrative supervision are, of course, still available. Mrs Nooren also asked about the funded legal aid. The problems of legal aid financed are indeed a focus of attention. But this is not unique to the Environment Act. In principle, there is little change in formal legal protection. Interested parties may object to authorisation decisions. This is free. Representation is also not mandatory. In appeals and appeal cases before a court and the Council of State, registry rights shall apply. They don't change by introducing the law. Here too, professional legal aid is not required. In that sense, that does not change. We are currently carrying out a zero measurement of the current case law, which explicitly takes account of the extent and need for representation. So that's what we're watching. If the monitor shows that the need for professional legal aid is increasing, we will of course involve it in the overall discussion with the Council on the effects of the Environment Act. Mrs Baay asked whether the entry into force of the environmental plan was different from the zoning plan. The Environment Act provides for the environmental plan to enter into force after four weeks from the date of the survey. The six-week period for appeal is still valid. This is the middle ground between, on the one hand, the interests of the initiators at an early date of entry into force and, on the other hand, the interests of third parties against them. Moreover, this is not a breach of the possibilities of legal protection, which remain. Third parties may also make an application for interim measures at any time under the Environmental Act. This may also mean that it has a suspensive effect. That is not necessarily the case, as Mrs Baay knows, but that can also be the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u174	It's always tricky when to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u175	I have three more questions within this block. Then I may have answered them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u176	I suggest you finish up the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u177	The Environmental Law prescribes the regular procedure for environmental permits in a larger number of cases. It is essential that the Environment Act prescribes the extended preparation procedure in those cases where international law so requires. Wherever possible, the regular procedure is applied. For the regular preparation procedure, a decision-making period of eight weeks is standard, but if the competent authority considers that that time limit is too short, the decision-making period can be extended by six weeks to fourteen weeks. If there is a right of advice and consent, the decision-making period is extended by four weeks and therefore there can be a total decision-making period of 18 weeks. The competent authority also has, under general administrative law, the possibility to suspend a decision period with the consent of the applicant. This ensures careful decision-making. I think I've answered most of the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u178	Was this the cube? Yes. Then Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u179	My question goes back to the availability of justice and funding. It is good to deal with this dialogously, but the question is: what standards do you set for that? Someone wants to object to something, but there's not enough attorney support, so the trial is suspended or there's no investigation. What effect does that have? I work more in the social domain, and that does not make me happy that sometimes criminal cases remain for years of very vulnerable people. What does this mean if there isn't enough money for support? I assume that the rich, the provinces and the municipalities will have enough benefits. But what exactly is that about? What are the standards now? Are there any deadlines that you're saying I'm going to cash in now? What exactly is that all about, both on the side of the social lawyer and on the side of the court?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u180	I think this is really part of a broader debate on access to justice. I am afraid that the Environment Act does not necessarily stand out more positively from the other areas to which Mrs Nooren refers. I also find it difficult to comment on this for my colleague. What I do understand is that Mrs Nooren asks what happens to the procedures if there is a waiting period. Let me come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u181	I hear the Minister talking about extra money being made available to the judiciary. We are very pleased with that, but I believe that only by making structural money available to the judiciary can you avoid it. I did hear you use the word "structural," just not in relation to structural money. As far as I know, you can only hire additional staff and appoint additional judges if structural resources are made available to relieve the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u182	That is, of course, true if you think that there is also a structural additional tax due to the introduction of the Environment Act. We expect that there will be additional questions during the transition period and that this will lead to additional taxation, but according to the government's estimate that is not a structural tax. Then you have to talk about other amounts and about a different kind of funding. For the period 2020-2022, the price agreement with the Judicial Council provides for coverage of estimated workloads. A provision will therefore be made and additional resources will be used for what we believe will be additional workload in those years. In addition, the structural situation is monitored. So you can see in the coming years what matters relate to questions about the interpretation of the system. Once that crystallizes a little, you know that kind of questions will take away. So you know what questions have to do structuralally with the way the system has been set up. This may well be a structural trend for which we need to find a structural solution together. That is precisely what monitoring is about. Of course, we will discuss this with the Council for Justice and with my colleague for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u183	How am I supposed to see the extra money? In your view, it's a temporary problem, but I've never heard of temporary appointment of judges. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u184	It may also be the support of judges for whom additional human resources are temporarily deployed. I can still see if I can give you some more details on that in the second term before I improvise. What is still being done is that additional money is being made available, in addition to the regular training budget, for the training of judges and legal support staff in the courts. So even in the training is additional investment in these years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u185	I'd like to look forward to this in second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u186	I would also like to hear the amounts involved in this in the second term, because extra money sounds good, but how much is that? The transition period mentioned, 2021-2022, seems a little short to me, although it is only because this kind of thing is not immediately on the scene from 1 January, but needs a certain run-up before they get to justice. So maybe that period is a little short. I would like the Minister's consideration of that. I would like to touch on Mrs Baay's question about the different tempo in the municipalities. I had that question too, but I thought it would probably be answered. These different tempos are of course not important if all the effects are within one municipality. The point is that if there are cross-border activities between two or three municipalities and those activities are just on the municipal border, where the municipalities have set different values and, so to speak, the limit value and the standard value differ from each other. How do you deal with that? Isn't that going to lead to a lot of conflicts?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u187	In the written round of questions, a question was asked by Mrs Kluit van GroenLinks, among others. That is where soil pollution was concerned, for example. Imagine, you have a resident in municipality A and a resident in municipality B. The resident in the municipality of A pollutes the land and it ends up in the municipality of B. Now municipality A has different standards, so in municipality A it might fit just within the pollution limits, but in municipality B it doesn't actually fit anymore. What about it? Contamination of someone else's soil is simply not allowed. So in that case, the one who pollutes the soil is also simply liable. In addition, all municipalities are subject to the same bandwidths for certain standards that you can set. Then it depends on where the effect occurs and who is interested. I just gave that answer to Mrs Baay. If you are interested in a certain standard, you can of course appeal against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u188	I have a question on the point before us. I don't know if we're all done with the trial. Otherwise, maybe it's okay to finish that up and I'm gonna go after?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u189	Ask your question, because we really need to go a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u190	It's about the open standards and the position of people and how they look at them. My question is something else than he's been answered. What strikes me in the discussions over the last few years on nitrogen and pfas, but also on the application of European standards, is that people need a lot of clarity and not really flexibility at all. They call out, almost shouting, that they want to know where they stand, so that they can adapt their business operations to that and the uncertainty is out of the market. This applies, for example, to wind farm developers, and to solar park developers struggling with a postcode rose scheme. This is about farmers struggling with environmental standards in the area. Everything's about to hit the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u191	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u192	We're gonna work with open standards. We can also adapt a lot of things flexibly. That is the flexibility we want to apply with the Environment Act. How do we guard or ensure that we also have the stability that many parties in our society are asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u193	The fact that a municipality has the right to make local policies within a bandwidth by way of derogation from the target values does not mean that a municipality is obliged to apply endlessly open standards everywhere. In fact, it can be determined for a particular street that the height of the façade is up to x. You can still do that. It is not, therefore, that the fact that there is room for localisation within the open standards and no longer at the rich level is determined what the specific standard is, there would no longer be the possibility to determine it locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u194	You don't have to, but you can. I'm a little more of the sausage case, I think, in this room. So it's possible, and then it has consequences for people. The flexibilisation of the instruments, you can be for or against them, but it does have an impact on the stability of the big task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u195	But there are limits to the scope of that flexibility. When we talk about noise, for example, there are simply clear frameworks within which that should remain. So it is a balancing framework that also knows its limits. Mrs Kluit stressed the risks or disadvantages she saw. She calls all kinds of people who like clarity. I also come across people very often who say, "If only we had a little more flexibility in applying this rule, because this rule is really unnecessarily oppressive," even when we are talking, for example, about the circular economy. Every system, no matter how you set it up, will always be pros and cons. With the flexibility within the bandwidth, where the municipality has the opportunity to achieve a specific standard in the environmental plan, I think that we find a better balance in the relationship between national rules and local customization than there is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u196	Then Mr Nicolaï with perhaps a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u197	It is not a short question, because I had asked four questions that were all related to the protection of rights. None of the four questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u198	I found them. Mr Nicolaï is right. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u199	Ah, I was on the bottom. That's what I'd do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u200	Yes, I did just run into them, but I saw you getting up, so I thought you'd be fine. I hope all four of them are in there too! Mr Nicolaï doubted whether the interpretation of the review of decisions could be left to the courts themselves. Let's see if we can talk about the right set of questions. Does the Minister intend to include in the law a provision on full review? Why does it not include an additional obligation in the system that governs that public authorities who have formulated policies in the area of environmental law should establish them in a policy rule? Those were the questions I still had from Mr Nicolaï in this block. I'm just checking to see if that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u201	I had also asked about the declaration of conformity, which the Council of State had said you should actually take care of. And I had asked whether we should not regulate the principle of trust, which was a lot of questions, as legislators rather than merely looking at what justice will ultimately do with it. That was actually the four questions. But I'll see you in a minute with all the papers. Maybe you need a little more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u202	I was just checking to see if they were still in there. I do not see the principle of conformity in this. Then I will see to it that we return to that in a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u203	I must announce that we will suspend at 4:45 p.m., according to schedule, and then resume at 7:15 p.m. Perhaps this will provide a way out of moving this point to 7.15 p.m.? Then we'll continue with the Minister's second term. You may now be able to answer a number of other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u204	At least I can give you the answers I have. Then we'll be able to answer the two questions we may have missed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u205	Yes. We're gonna suspend at 4:45 anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u206	Yeah, I'll be fine. Certain aspects of the scope of legal protection are determined by the legislator. Think of the appellability of decisions against which decisions can be appealed? The Court held that the Commission had failed to fulfil its obligations The intensity of the review referred to by Mr Nicolaï is primarily determined by the administrative judge himself, given, of course, the substantive and procedural frameworks for administrative decision-making laid down by the legislator. Action by the legislator is not obvious, as in practice the administrative court appears to be well able to align the intensity of the review with the nature of the decision it reviews and the legal framework on which that decision is based. The legal system in the Netherlands already provides for a review of the principle of proportionality, as codified in Article 3.4 of the General Administrative Law. Although the administrative judge may not simply substitute the administrative body for its own assessment of the balance of interests in terms of policy or discretion for the administrative body, the court must, however, examine the requirements of the law, such as proportionality and sound justification. An administrative body should not take a decision which has unreasonable or disproportionate effects on citizens and businesses. This follows from the general principles of good governance. An administrative judge shall fully assess whether a decision is contrary to any general principle of good administration. Decision-making under the Environmental Act should also lead to a balanced outcome. This is also explicitly stated in a number of areas in the system, for example in section 4.2: the environmental plan should ensure a balanced allocation of functions to locations. Why not an additional obligation in the system that governs that public authorities who have formulated policies should establish this in a policy rule? I can imagine the need. If policies are made, it is good that citizens and businesses can learn about them. That was actually what I referred to just now in response to the Labour Party. If governments use a policy, they can define it as a policy rule. This is regulated in the Awb and this does not require any additional regulation. So that's already taken care of. They often do. So an additional legal obligation to do this standard in environmental law we think goes too far. By the way, the Environment Act already has a number of specific obligations to establish policy rules, for example around monuments. In the case of a general legal obligation, there is a risk of extra judicialisation. So we think it is a nice idea, but we want to limit ourselves a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u207	Have you now completed your block of citizens and businesses in the system? Okay, well, at least we did that before 4:45 and we do the last big block after that. Mr Nicolaï wants to respond to this. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u208	Yes. I should like to add my voice to the last point. I'm not actually hearing any justification why that shouldn't be. I hear that's already arranged in several places in the Environment Act on a small terrain. I am also considering tabling a motion on this matter. So I would like to hear from the Minister once again what is against it, if there are open standards, policy can be pursued, the governing body has policy criteria and also uses them, to say: put them in a policy rule that you publish as a policy rule. That is why we are gaining legal certainty and equality. If it is not laid down in that policy rule and published, Article 481 of the General Administrative Law does not apply. It states that there is a legal obligation to comply with policy rules. This does not apply if there are criteria, but are not established in the form of a policy rule. Once again, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to this point. I shall come back to the first point. Of course, a judge decides what he does with his jurisdiction. It would be weird if we broke up with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u209	Exactly. At least we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u210	But, of course, it's how you describe the jurisdiction of the judge. At the moment, I agree with you that the principle of proportionality is enshrined in the law. I also agree with you that there are several places in the Environment Act, including in the explanatory statement, where this proportionality is discussed. However, the question that I have put here, and which we are all struggling with here in the Chamber, is the following. If the judge takes that principle of proportionality into account, it is currently the case-law that the judge does so very reluctantly. What does it mean to exercise restraint? That means that he hardly really interferes with that balance of interests. We are now going to agree here with all of us, at least if you are in favour of the environmental law system, that this balance of interests may take place in many more areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u211	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u212	I agree with you that the judge himself is guarding that. My question is, once again, whether it is not the legislator's job to regulate this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u213	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u214	If Mr Nicolaï thinks space is growing enormously, that would support his plea. However, I have just indicated that the extra space offered is also quite limited. For me, therefore, there is no reason to change the weighting on this point throughout the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u215	Mr Nicolaï, one last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u216	I don't quite understand this answer. The question is very clear and limited. Let me then put the question as follows. What if, after one year, it turns out that legal protection in many areas is indeed a shambles? Is the government prepared to reconsider whether there should be an extension of judicial review in this particular area? For all I care, you're even saying it's an experiment. That is basically what we are writing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u217	Here I am prepared to go with Mr Nicolaï. This is what I think. We set up a system of which we estimate certain effects, and then it's very good to monitor whether it's working out the way we want it to. Let me say, then, that we will also monitor this and we will evaluate it on this point. I do not go so far as to say: if so, then I will go on to the solution that Mr Nicolaï has outlined. We will then have a discussion on this on the basis of the evaluation. If this development is to occur, then we must also have a good answer, including in our legal framework. That's what I'm happy to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u218	Thank you for your commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u219	Minister, I assume you'd like to start with the block of DSO et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u220	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u221	Then we can at least make a start on that until 4.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u222	That's for sure, Mr. Chairman. The digital system supports the implementation of the Environment Act. It includes rural and local facilities connected to each other. For citizens and businesses, rural provision provides better services on a single future-proof platform. Users can see what rules apply at a location, check whether a permit is needed and make an application or notification. Citizens are not obliged to use the DSO. They can always apply on paper. I think it is very important for you to know that it will continue to exist. As much as we like to help and make it easily accessible to everyone in support of the language level, it can be quite a challenge for some people. They sit in front of such a screen and think: what happens if I press this button? There may be people who really prefer the certainty of submitting an application on paper. That possibility remains. Around 10% of citizens are still using the possibility of a paper application. This remains possible under the Environmental Act. Another question that many of you had is whether it will only be digital. No, it will always be possible to have personal contact with the municipality for help with an application. I think that's crucial, too. We know that some people don't turn their hands when it comes to a rooftop chapel. Other people can lie awake nights when they see a website like this. You should also be able to have that personal contact if you have any questions about it, because you want to do it right. I aim to serve as well as possible the group of citizens who want to use the DSO. User-friendliness is paramount, even for less digitally skilled people, people with visual disabilities or low-literate people. The DSO wasn't built in one day. In 2017, the BIT recommended that the DSO-LV, the national provision, be limited to a minimum of the current level of service and that this be further developed. It is precisely because of the complexity sometimes of ICT projects that I think it is very important that we follow these kinds of advice carefully. It is important that we try not to do too much at once, but have applied a phasering. The basic level should be there when the law enters into force. The expansion, and the enrichment actually, can take place afterwards. Where are we now, was a question from the PVV. We're ready to dock. The basic level is now sufficiently ready for public authorities to connect. The whole of 2020 is thus being used as a year of preparation, practice and implementation. That was also a question of 50PLUS and the Labour Party. We do not do this in an ivory tower, but together with the domes, suppliers and civil society organisations. My commitment is to check the operation properly prior to entry into force. We also have independent and externally done so by the Audit Service Rijk and Bureau Gateway. However extensive, careful and good all preparations have been, the real effect is only shown in actual use over time. So it is very important to start now. That, I think, is also the importance of the exercise you are all putting so much emphasis on. In December 2019 most of the basic level of the DSO-LV was delivered. This is now enough to connect, practice and fill. 2020 is therefore used as a year of preparation, exercise and implementation. We are therefore on schedule with the planning of the DSO-LV. It is precisely designed to ensure that all governments are ready for implementation in time. All governments have been able to connect to the DSO since the beginning of this year. Later, a schedule will be drawn up on which they can register. We can see in the first few weeks that this is being handled very proactively. After three weeks, a total of 133 organisations, mostly municipalities, have started to join. 97 organisations have been notified for which another date has to be set, 22 organisations have been identified for which a date has been set and 14 organisations have been connected to the DSO. They also receive help from umbrella organisations, including the VNG. Moreover, by the end of the first quarter of 2020 at the latest, a practice version of that entire dowry will be prepared. That's another practice version, because we have to complete the rules first, including with your Chamber. That was a discussion about the planning that we had at the end of last year. Then we actually found out that it was too tight and said that we are going to make that dowry into a practice content. That was to be able to start practicing, but also simply complete the entire legislative process with your Chamber in a careful way. So that will all be arranged. This way of working also gives a clear picture of those who remain behind. They are really being paid extra attention. Some of you referred to the survey in which 2% of the municipalities said that we do not think we are ready. I immediately asked: which ones are they and are they also actively called to ask what further support they need? And yes, it will. So we're going to focus on municipalities that are lagging behind to look at what's going on in the VNG, but also the deployment and regional teams can contribute to what is needed to further support them in their implementation, so that we can all be ready in time. Around the summer of 2020 we will see again if we are ready. We've already talked about that in the beginning. For this purpose I use, among other things, the monitor introduction of Environmental Law et cetera. There are a number of minimum criteria for entry into force. I said: let us make that clear to you once again. There must be defined environmental visions for provinces and provinces, a defined environmental regulation for provinces, available through the rural provision. If the project decision is implemented, it must be established on the basis of the requirement of the Environmental Act. Municipalities must be able to change their environmental plan in accordance with the requirements of the Environmental Act and to unlock the rural provision. In the case of licences, notifications and applications, the technique must be there so that competent authorities and implementing organisations can receive them. Submission, process and assessment must all be ready. So on all these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u223	The purpose of this entire Cabinet Environment Act is, if I understand correctly, to aim for higher efficiency, simplification and cost savings. Can the Minister indicate how much money has so far been spent on the DSO-IT and how much has been budgeted until everything according to the Minister works flawlessly? Then we can place this in a broader context of costs and benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u224	It is a misunderstanding that cost savings would be a reason to proceed to the Environment Act. There is no cutback attached to it either. There will also be no cuts in municipalities as a result of the introduction of the Environment Act. We think it will become more insightful and better suited to the transitions we are faced with, and to the division of responsibility: what should be assessed at a rich level and what can be assessed locally? Those are the goals of the Environment Act. I can also give some indications of the costs of the DSO. That's right up ahead in my folder. At the state level, certain amounts have been set for this. There is 142 million euros for DSO rural amenities. That is still within planning and budget at the moment. In addition, agreements have been made on management facilities and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u225	So 142 million has now been spent on the DSO, if I understand correctly. How much is spent until it enters into force and what are the annual costs? Can you outline the amounts we are talking about here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u226	I will make sure that I can go into this in more detail in the second term. Or maybe I'll get those data in a minute and I can turn them in after dinner break. It's 142 million for DSO-LV in its entirety, so to the end. That is the budget available for this. This is being paid out gradually. However, it is important to report that the implementation is currently running within budget and within time limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u227	Thank you. We're looking forward to seeing those numbers. Last question: what is the involvement of BIT in the further monitoring of this whole project?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u228	That's a very fair question. The BIT has become a very important authority of the government in implementing IT projects. The whole range of trajectories has shown how crucial an independent advice from such a BIT is. In 2017, there was a BIT advice that actually said: cut it up; first, do the first stage well with what is really needed for the entry into force, and then build it up block by block. That first BIT opinion of 2017 was sent to the Chamber. Then, of course, you will start following the recommendations. We're not gonna decide for ourselves whether we've done well enough. We have the ADR (Audit Service Rijk) and Gateway determine whether sufficient follow-up has been given to what the BIT advised at the time about the first phase. The BIT also comes with an opinion on the second phase, the enlargement module, so to speak. I understand very well that the Chamber would like to see this around the summer when we talk about the date of introduction. Because the BIT is independent, I can't send for it, but I'd be happy to pass it on to them. But these are not the modules that are important for the start of the system. Those are enrichment modules. An example: when it comes to a protected tree, you can now click on a separate website. Through the enrichment module, the question "is it a protected tree, yes or no?" are already brought into the system itself. So all the information is already accessible, but will soon be brought into the system itself. Of course, you want to perform this carefully again without compromising the stability of the system itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u229	We actually agreed to keep the questions until the end of the block. Is that okay with you, Mr. Janssen? That's gonna be after 7:15 anyway; then we've got all night. Is it an idea at least to let the Minister finish this little block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u230	I had a follow-up question to that of Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u231	Go ahead, if you can do it briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u232	It can certainly be short. Surely it can't be that the BIT has to give a judgment on the expansion, which has to build on what is there, without looking at the sand they have under their feet? That is my question to the Secretary of State. And very briefly, what does "connected" mean? I honestly confess I've also taken a subscription to the gym. That doesn't mean I've been active there. If the criterion is that municipalities must be connected, is it actively connected and working on it, or is it only connected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u233	That is the whole list of minimum criteria for entry into force. In other words, they must have the technique for applying for permits and receiving notifications via DSO-LV, that local authorities must make available the question trees for the digital application form et cetera, et cetera. That's the whole set of criteria I've just mentioned. So that's connected. I summarize not to mention all these criteria every time, but there is a clear list of them. What is needed for this is, of course, also very well aligned with all the competent authorities. Then the first question: of course the BIT will also base itself on what comes out of the ADR and Gateway review. This provides information for the BIT allowing them to see to what extent follow-up has been given to their previous advice. We are not going to say that to them ourselves, but let us also judge them independently. That is precisely the basis on which BIT can move forward. This can also make it a little complicated to ask BIT to provide advice before the summer, as they need that information to give their advice on the development. So in all reasonableness we can ask that, but they will have to judge for themselves how they carefully come to an opinion. But again, these follow-up modules are not necessary for the development. They'll make it easier to use it later. I already mentioned the example of the website with the protected trees, but before the start everything is ready. That's all in the basic package. The CDA asked if we could clarify whether the developed software actually works in the preliminary letter prior to the handling of the KB. Hopefully I have been clear about that: it must really work. I can therefore promise that the operation will be tested continuously. After two weeks, we test the developed software. Every quarter it is tested in practice. That's what we do with users and suppliers. Over the past few weeks, Bureau Gateway has started a review. I expect we can send the Gateway review to the Chamber by the end of the first quarter. The inter-administrative acceptance team will also complete its reporting in spring. Then you have all that information not only from the Empire but also from the other governments. Mrs Klip asked the important question: what agreements are actually made on continuity of service by the DSO in view of malfunctions, interruptions and possible loss of data? She asked: is not the risk of malfunctions passed on to the local authorities when the Electronic Publications Act enters into force? It is important to provide clarity about this. The starting point is, of course, that we want to avoid interference as much as possible. We have technical and organisational measures for this, such as a modern cloud platform and the testing of recovery procedures. By exercising early in 2020, we can test such facilities and extract certain childhood diseases. Structurally, a backup of all information in the country is made periodically. This ensures that users have as little interference as possible, because their data is kept. For example, initiators can store their application or notification in a project folder. This is regularly backed up. After a malfunction, they'll be able to move on to where they left off. Following submission, applications and notifications will be placed in a working directory for public authorities. This will also be backed up. Local authorities also make back-up arrangements about their business and planning systems. And you can always go to the counter. So if the website is out for a while, there is always the possibility of personal contact and a physical request. So if everything else fails, we still have the system as we have it now. As responsible administrator of the national supply, I have instruments to act in the event of malfunctions as well as instruments to act in the event of breaches of cybersecurity of the national supply of the DSO. We have recently seen that this is not a theoretical option either, but something that we need to be prepared for. For example, I have the power to control certain consumers, requests for information or shipments in cases of abuse or risks in a chain and whether or not to temporarily block them. The continuity of digital services is ensured through agreements with operational management organisations. We take measures to ensure the availability of the national supply, including the establishment and implementation of an emergency recovery plan. Of course, we agree with all the administrative partners. There is therefore no transfer of risks. I think it is very important to make that clear here. We have already talked about digital publishing: Minister Knops has promised, in response to questions from Mrs Bezaan, to see whether it will be possible to ensure that fewer literate people also have good accessibility and awareness of the government organisation in the same way, even if there is much digital coverage. Mrs Kluit asked whether environmental permits would soon be available in the DSO-LV. At the base level, no environmental permits are yet available. However, it is connected to the current service level of spatial plans.nl. This means that notifications of off-site environmental activities are displayed. Users can, like now, click on the map to the contour within which the deviation from the environment plan applies and to the notification. Municipalities can add more information to this as they are now. But of course you have to take into account privacy legislation, because permits can contain a lot of business sensitive information. In the context of the development of the national provision, it is considered how and when the privacy permits can still be accessed via the national facility. This is looked at, but privacy needs to be properly processed. Then there is an important point, mentioned by a number of speakers. I think one of Mr Nicolaï's questions will come back to that. That's about the disclaimer. What can you, as a citizen who uses such a permit check, count on, what can you rely on and what is your legal status? Rural provision is the central point where businesses and citizens can get information about the physical environment. Then it is important that that information is actually true. Public authorities providing information to the national supply are responsible for the quality of that information. The national provision of the DSO is a service product. Rights can be derived from the official source. You are all aware that this also works in other places. But if there is really incorrect information displayed in the DSO, for example because a question tree for a permit check is incorrect, then a citizen can rely on the principle of trust. He may assume that the information he receives from the government is correct. But that's another thing than that you can always derive rights from the outcome, because the information given at the outcome of a permit check also depends very much on what the user asks or fills out. You can't ignore that either. Because if an initiator is not complete in his check or overlooks a licensed activity, he may receive a wrong answer. This also happens now if you have to make the assessment on paper whether you need to apply for a permit, or on the basis of a general checklist on the website. This is not only up to the competent authority, because this must also be based on the information provided by the citizen. What I do consider to be an important added value of the DSO is that the DSO has a suggestion function for other activities at permit checks. Let me give you an example. You want to build a shed and it will be checked whether a permit has to be applied for. Then you might think, "You don't have to do that for this barn," according to the permit check. But you forgot you'd have to tear down your old barn. Turns out you should've applied for a permit for that demolition. In the DSO you will be actively reminded of this question: if you have an old barn that you need to demolish first, check it and see if you can find out that you have to apply for a permit. I think that's an added value. The DSO can never guarantee that the information people fill in themselves is correct, but it is a tool that helps with these kinds of questions. Because the possible combinations of necessary permits are infinite, citizens are informed through disclaimers and proclaimers that, if there are any questions, it is okay to contact them. That is why it is so important that the possibility of personal contact always remains there. So if you have any questions or doubts, please contact the municipality. Also the current facilities, Surrounding Window online and the Activity Decision internet module work with disclaimers for permits and notification checks. That is really no different: it is a tool that can be used. The DSO does have a lot of added value compared to the current provisions. There's a suggestion function in it. The question trees I mentioned the vertical wood uprisings are now simply replaced by terms like "tree" or "shrub." For a lot of people, this leads to less feelings of uncertainty, whether they should apply for a permit for a vertical wood stand or for a tree. For example, if you have done a check with the result that you have to apply for a permit, you do not have to re-fill everything, it will be automatically taken over. We all hate to fill in the same data six times. This kind of thing is a little help. All this is about the principle of trust. A citizen cannot rely solely on a permit check. But "in good faith" also plays a role when it comes to the judge. That's the principle of trust. Mr Rietkerk asked whether it is right that an absolute certainty about a permit can only be obtained if you really apply. That's just like now. You can also fill out a checklist now, but you only have absolute certainty if you apply for a permit. You'll find out whether it's necessary or not. This is a fixed line of the Administrative Court of the Council of State. Following a comment made by Mr Nicolaï, this is a different section from the section opinion. It has indeed suggested that this possibility of making an application in the form of a declaration of conformity should be clarified. Mr Nicolaï's question was still there. I have dealt with this issue in writing. I indicated that the incorporation of a declaration of conformity is not necessary in the light of the case law of the case-law section. The citizen can obtain the desired security by making an application. Written communications on whether or not to be accepted or in writing information on the application of rules on an authorisation obligation shall not be considered a decision. You can't derive absolute certainty from that. However, information can, of course, be relied on the principle of trust when it comes to obtaining information, but that is an unwritten principle of law. That is still weaker than an irrevocable decision. The consequence for citizens and businesses is indeed that they can apply for a permit in cases of doubt if they really want that legal certainty. Actually, that's no different than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u234	Minister, it's 4:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u235	I'll take a look...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u236	I'm going to suspend now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u237	Then I'll just move on later, because it's too important a subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u238	Sure. Then we'll get back to work at 7:15. I suggest we finish the DSO block, finance and support, and save the interruptions for afterwards. Then we get the second term from the Chamber. Including interruptions, it will take about two hours. Then we'll get the Minister's second term. Then everyone knows that the agenda must be kept blank tonight. Then I would like to inform you that Members can report to the Council of State for the discussion at the main entrance, almost to be seen here, at Kneuterdijk 20. I shall now suspend the sitting until 7.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u239	The next item is the continuation of the first term on the part of the government of the treatment of 34986, the Environment Act, as well as 34986, letter D, the draft Engagement Act. I propose to ask the Minister to finish the DSO block first, then to deal with the interruptions about DSO grouped together, then to go through the finance block in one go, then to do the interruptions on it, then to deal with the combination of implementation support and implementation, and finally to do the interruptions on it. Is that a deal, spokesmen? Yes. Then that's how we're gonna do it. I would like to give the floor to the Minister to continue her reply on the subject of DSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just for your memory on the freshen up. We had already started on this subject for a while. With regard to the issues I have already dealt with, I hope I have made it clear that it is essential that users continue to have the possibility of making a paper application and getting personal help. You rightly stressed the importance of maintaining this possibility. I'll share that. We talked about the state of play. Where are we with the connecting, the rehearsal and the filling? There are already 133 applications to join. We're on schedule. We have talked about the legal status of the citizen who acts in good faith at a permit check. Then what's the balance? What can they count on? We talked about the external review, the BIT, the status report, Gateway, but also about the BIT in the development process. The cost of the DSO base level is 142 million. This has therefore been estimated at a basic level and stable within the budget. On the further costs of the DSO, I will come back to the finance folder in more detail. I would now like to talk to you about accessibility. That's actually quite a very important common thread in many of the conversations we're having about this bill. How do we ensure accessibility? How do we ensure that this is useful, including for people with disabilities or those who are low-literate? They must also be able to cope with the new environment window. To this end, we use international standards and guidelines in the field of accessibility in the development of the DSO. We really test that with user tests and measurements. The functionality offered by the DSO is similar to the current features, with a number of important advantages in terms of user friendliness. For example, the new window is more accessible to people with visual impairment and the public texts are written at language level B1. That is the language level that can actually be understood by about 95% of the Dutch population. These directives are mandatory for the whole government, and therefore for municipalities that are going to fill the system with local questions trees. A writing guide and manuals have been drawn up within the framework of the programme Getting started. The municipalities, the provinces, the waterboards and the national parties are proactively reminded of that writing guide. There's extra attention to that. Mrs Nooren asked whether the signals about the choice of the waterboards were correct and what that means for the deadline. The water boards have no common system choice. In response to the question of the Labour Party, we have asked about the situation in the waterboards. It has been reported that no bottlenecks in the choice of systems have been identified. The Union of Water Councils expects all water boards to be connected to permit systems and permit handling before the entry into force of the law. This is also monitored. I'll come to the implementation. We do not practice in an ivory tower, but together with the domes, suppliers and civil society organisations. There has been a lot of practice with the different parts of the DSO in the past three years. This has been done in the form of more than 120 practical trials, which have taken place throughout the country. There has been practiced in publishing and displaying regulations in the DSO such as the environmental plan or a watership regulation, making and uploading question trees, connecting the treatment systems, etc. For example, the Limburg waterboard has already managed to publish its waterboard regulations as an exercise and to show them in the practice environment of the DSO. Questions trees have been uploaded, as well as the corresponding legal rules, et cetera. In 2019, 17 regional tryouts were organised in which inter-administrative practice was practiced with both the DSO and the Environmental Act itself. In IJsselland, for example, municipalities, provinces, water boards, environmental services, GGD, security regions and Rijkswaterstaat have looked at how to cooperate more effectively on complex initiatives, with the aim that applications and notifications can be dealt with more quickly. For example, they have made sure that they connect well with each other and that the question trees have also been realized. Since 1 January 2020, there is a practice version of the entire DSO ready for all governments. They can all work with the whole system. The entire dowry has been added to that at the end of Q1. They can then connect their own planning and treatment systems so they can already publish and display regulations in the DSO, upload question trees, receive and handle practice applications and notifications and also cooperate with other governments. This has been available since the beginning of this year. The term of one year of practice is therefore not lost either. Mrs Bezaan asked: can the Minister promise that the entire dowry will be released for practice? Yes, I can promise you that. I'll make sure the practice kit is already available at the end of Q1. As I said earlier, the training set can only be finalized after the adoption of the introduction decision and an additional decision on soil and noise. This can only be done again after the Council of State has given its opinion. It is therefore important that we upload the provisional version now, because I understand very well that you say that we need to be able to practice the whole thing. Mr Janssen asked about the social added value of the DSO, because we are now starting with the basic variant. He actually says: is there not only added value in the realization of the next phase? I mentioned just now the example of the barn that you're going to build and you're going to get the tip immediately. "Remember, if you're gonna demolish a barn, you might have to apply for a permit for it." I hope that I have been able to show that there is added value in that kind of practical examples, in addition to just the ease to request it digitally, if you want. In addition, there is of course money available for the expansion of the Empire, to add more and more to it. The first development work has already begun. Again, we also discussed the BIT opinion. Money is also available for this. Shouldn't a right to a developed and up-to-date DSO be incorporated into the law? The law allows for further development. The choices must be made in this context together with the administrative partners. Mrs Kluit asked about the citizen's information position. Is it even equivalent to that of the initiator? The ambition is to fully unlock as much information as possible about the living environment. As a result of the BIT opinion, we are doing this step-by-step, because of course we consider the stability of the system to be very important. The national provision will contain references to other sites at the basic level. I mentioned the register of protected trees and I already mentioned sites where there is a protected village view. Those sites are there, but if you click through, you will now end up on a separate site. In the next phase, all that information is also integrated into that one DSO. That makes it even easier and more accessible. Are the rules on nature and landscape in the DSO? At the time of entry into force of the law, the DSO shows the things that can be unlocked for the basic level. This is done on the advice of the BIT. On 1 January, the following can be done in the field of nature and landscape: apply for permits and notifications, review the rules in the provincial environmental regulation, including the rules on nature and landscape, and review the rules in the environmental regulation, including the nature supplement scheme. This is already a small step forward in relation to the current provisions, in which this could not be done in one place. In addition, existing information from other sources is made easier to find by including a link to this information. For example, links can be made to the Natura 2000 site and protected species. A large part of the rules on nature reserves stem from things other than laws and regulations, such as the designation decisions for Natura 2000 sites. Unlocking that information is not yet in the base level. As part of the development process, it will be considered whether this type of information can also be connected. This has already started this year because this issue has been a high priority among the governments, as you will all understand. That investigation is now under way. You will be further informed about this at the next progress report on the system review. Of course we do this together with the Ministry of LNV. Mr Rietkerk asked whether many possibilities have been created to obtain relevant data from environmental services on the living environment for all. Much of the information provided by the environmental services does indeed land in the basic level in the DSO-LV. This goes into regulation, in the environmental plans that are being shown. Mr Rietkerk specifically asked about the environmental services. They often already make information about the living environment available online, for example monitoring data. They can definitely keep doing that. Reference can therefore be made to this in the DSO. The development of the DSO can also consider how such information can be accessed in the DSO. Mrs Kluit asked whether any information relevant to citizens' interests has been presented. Like GroenLinks, I think it is important for citizens to know what is going on. This is particularly important in public decision-making that is relevant to the interests of citizens. Citizens can easily become aware of what is happening in their environment through the attention service for government publications. That information can be found through Announcements in your neighborhood. They're already on government.nl. For example, in the case of environmental permits, the competent authority gives notice of an application. Citizens can be reminded of this through the postcode alert service. Furthermore, the competent authority should also provide relevant documents for access to decisions prepared by a uniform public preparation procedure. With all these facilities, citizens can be well informed of the information they need. Mr President, I believe that these are the supplementary questions on the DSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u241	I'll take a look around. I see Mrs Kluit getting out of the starting blocks first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u242	The Minister indicated that she was sympathetic to the idea of introducing more information on licence applications and notifications in the DSO for citizens, but that privacy aspects should be safeguarded. That will have to do with the GDPR. Are these problems soluble?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u243	So now we are looking at what is possible, indeed according to the GDPR. I can't judge whether that's soluble tonight, but we're looking at the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u244	Can we talk about this again if this is not soluble? Protecting privacy rights is of course very important. At the same time, with environmental law applications, you will, of course, also act in a different way in the privacy of other citizens. There are therefore two different rights. So I would like to talk about whether we are making a proper weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u245	I can, of course, inform the Chamber of course about the further outcome. So they're looking at this. I can, of course, also report to the Chamber on the outcome. That may or may not always be a reason to talk about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u246	Finally, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u247	I have another question, which I think is touching here and which was already included in the previous questions: what happens if municipalities are not ready? I got the wonderful answer that the VNG expected everyone to be ready. That's very nice, but let's say that on 1 January for whatever reason, a sick ICT official; you can't imagine 35 municipalities aren't ready. Then what happens in these 35 municipalities or in the whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u248	Everything will of course be connected in advance. Between now and the summer we try to connect all the municipalities. Then everything will be uploaded. So a lot of people have to be sick for six months if it's not ready by 1 January. I don't know if that's the most obvious option. At least within six months there will be an opportunity to involve other people to take those final steps towards publication. But it is also important that the physical trail remains. Even if a website would be a day off, there is always the possibility to continue the authorisation and the like via the personal contact and through physical requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u249	It also applies, for example, to the provincial regulation, which must be published through the DSO. There is discussion as to whether or not that is legal if you find that earlier. I'm trying to seduce the cabinet a little bit to think a little bit more about the risks and the open ends we have left. I have already discussed this with Mrs Schouten and Mr Wiebes. We look at things a little too often in our country with positive glasses. I'd really appreciate it if we knew what we'd do if it wasn't so bad. Let's hope it doesn't happen, but what do we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u250	To reassure Mrs Kluit: I asked the same question. I also said internally: what is the safety net if something doesn't work the way we now hope it works? It's just good to think about that in advance. Then, of course, the answer to a lot of things is as follows. If it doesn't work structurally, you have another question. That is why we have to discuss with each other whether we are ready for implementation. But if there's a malfunction for a few hours, there's always the physical route, the physical path. That actually offers a safety net for everything in the DSO in that sense, which is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u251	The minister's gonna come up with the money, but she's already mentioned numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u252	I also indicated that I will probably refer to all the numbers later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u253	I have a question to avoid speech confusion, even in the future. You indicated that there is 142 million for the basic level and then you indicated that there is also money available for further development. Is that the development for the 142 million within the base level? Or is that the development of scenario 3? If so, how much money is that? That can also be done in the next block, but I would like an answer to that. On the second point, you went very quickly. I quoted Kim Putters. He said that a very large group of people are not coming along, that it is actually a fundamental right to come along and that perhaps more needs to be anchored that people can also be well informed. So that was my question: shouldn't that be included in the law somewhere? Your answer was: yes, partners can do that. I think that is very brief, because it is about a more fundamental question, namely: shouldn't you want to? That is what the Ombudsman is asking, that is what Kim Putters indicates, and that is what Herman Tjeenk Willink says: should you not anchor that right more than just with "partners are going to do it"? The same applies to the issue of accessibility. I remember that in 2011 I tabled a motion with PvdA colleague Heijnen in the Lower House because many governments themselves did not comply with the web accessibility standard. It still is. So my question is whether you are going to see to it, because this is a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u254	On the first point, I cannot give an easy answer. That 142 million was indeed for the first phase. Subsequently, an annual management budget of 25.9 million and a total budget of 50 million are available for development. The reality is also constantly evolving. Think about soil contamination. I think until two years ago we thought we were about there with the historical point sources. Now we realize in the context of pfas that we may have quite different challenges. This can also mean something else for the extent to which soil pollutants should eventually be part of the DSO. So it's also a point about which you, as different levels of government, always weigh up and make the business case. But there is also a budget available for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u255	Then very concretely and taking back to the governance agreement: is the transition to scenario 3 now fully covered in the funding? Because until June there turned out to be a huge hole there. At least that's when it was left by me. And that turned out to be the case when we had the session here with each other in preparation for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u256	Indeed, I understand that you were sitting at the table of that governance agreement and that an estimate was made at that time which, if you would do anything, might be a little higher. But at least 50 million are available now. It has always been said that, also in accordance with the BIT advice, we are going to look at all these modules and also the business cases separately. I have just given you the example of soil pollution, which may not even have been included in those talks. You know that personally; I wasn't at the table at the time. Of course, this is something you should stay in conversation about, but that amount of 50 million is available for. That is for the elaboration of what I believe you called "scenario 3. " I think it's called phase two now, but that might be too much detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u257	Last but not least, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u258	Yes, last time on this point, and I have not yet received an answer to my second question. On this point, there is 50 million available and at least there was a deficit. However, that will have to be made clear before the summer, because I understand that the IPO made a point of this in particular, because it needed further development towards the great social added value. But I still like to get an answer to my second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u259	That was actually a lot of questions. Then the concern is always whether you interpret the question properly. Is it important that we pay very conscious attention to whether people are sufficiently involved in what is happening in their living environment? The answer to that question is certainly yes. I think that, precisely with the transition to the Environment Act in a number of places, we are also more firmly anchored in the law than in the current system. I also think that the whole commitment to participation, which we are right to exchange very much with each other, not only on paper but also in the way we try to anchor this and the place we give it throughout the process, is trying to actually achieve quality that more people are better involved. Is that a guarantee that everyone will always be optimally involved? No, you can never give that guarantee, but I do think that we are taking a very important step here, and I share the importance of that step with Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u260	Our group has asked the Minister about the worst case scenario of what could go wrong with the DSO and how that has been mitigated. I haven't gotten the answer to that question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u261	The worst case scenario might be that it doesn't work at all, and that's why we start on time. Ultimately, the DSO is created by connecting all those decentralised partners. That is why I am very pleased that 100 partners have been connecting since the opening of the programme. I have just given you the exact figures. If the connection of all those parties to that basic national provision, which really is the basis of that whole digital system, would not succeed, it would really be a worst case scenario. But we have also agreed on how far we should be from the summer in order to assess whether we have not only avoided the worst case scenario, but whether we are sufficiently ready to actually start. I would like to repeat once again that if that is not clear from the facts and from the progress figures, and that is more than a feeling, I would just like to say to Mrs Bezaan..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u262	A supplementary question to this. Does the Minister say that she does not see a worst case scenario in the structure of the DSO itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u263	I know that from your own experience you are certainly also familiar with structures and systems. I think that the fact that we have started working with a rural facility, which we then connect other parties to, in the balance between what you do centrally and decentrally, has been a conscious choice that fits what you can organise at a rich level and what you can expect. Again, for me, the worst case scenario would be if those connections did not work, because then you were not able to organise that integration properly. That's why it's a good thing we start on time. I am also pleased with the results so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u264	Then I'm going to see Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u265	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that every citizen also has access to a physical point of contact, i.e. an official can help him in a personal way. My only question is: how am I going to be or is every citizen sure that it can happen in every municipality, every waterboard and every province? You're gonna include that in the board agreement? Does that mean it's legally locked down? Are you going to include it in one of the decisions? How's this gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u266	I have already said something about this in another part of the reply. It's very important that that personal contact is there. I believe that this has already been secured in the legislation. In the second term, I will give you a precise indication of where that comes from, but I understand that this has already been secured. I would like to stress with you the importance of that personal contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u267	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u268	In the second term, I will mention the legal texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u269	I have a few more questions that are different. The first is in connection with the fact that it is there; it is whether it is happening. Do you include in the monitoring whether it happens? The answer on accessibility was not clear to me, except that there is a directive, which Mr Janssen also mentioned. In the first period of time, I also raised the question of whether, when reviewing the system, you are not only looking at the national system but also looking at the whole system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u270	Take in the monitoring? Yes. Of course, we have to check that accessibility throughout the system, because people do not benefit if they understand our part of the question trees, but the part that the municipality itself connects to it does not, so we have to monitor and check that accessibility in width.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u271	Thank you for your commitment. The second point concerns the municipalities that are connected. You are optimistic because there are already more than 100 municipalities. You say that it is planned that everyone joins for the summer. Can I conclude from this that we will only be presented with the introduction of the KB if all municipalities, provinces and water boards are connected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u272	I believe that this is the objective. It may be that there is a single one where there is a very clear reason why it is not, but everyone has to be ready and otherwise we should not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u273	Then maybe a tip, because we're talking about opportunities and risks. Normally, in such a large project, you have an opportunity and risk table that is constantly updated on things that have just been said, among others by Mr Dessing. Do you have it and would you like to share it with the Chamber? Then we can assess the progress of a worst case scenario, but also of a less bad scenario. You call it a small risk. An example of a current risk is currently a Citrix connection, which can shut down a whole system for months. Does the Minister have such a thing? Could she share its progress with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u274	Yeah, look, odds and risks in width, about everything, that's maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u275	Specifically for the DSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u276	Analyses have probably been made, but I am afraid to say that we have a specific opportunity and risk map. In the progress we will report on where things are going well and where we see that things are still lagging behind. Maybe that's a translation of those odds and risks. You want to feel good if we're ready, yes or no. We can capture all kinds of details, but this is what you want to see on the basis of the facts. Are the connections going well, are all provincial regulations and watership regulations accessible via the DSO? Has the connection been made for all municipalities, if necessary via the Environment Service? Those are the numbers you want. We need to make sure there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u277	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u278	Then, otherwise, I would ask you in the second term. In fact, you say that you have a list in your head which should be ready when it is done. Perhaps it is desirable for this Chamber to have an overview of what we mean by that, so that we do not face each other with very different opinions in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u279	Yes, as a result of the debate we have had here, I will draw up a list of the points that should be ready when it is finished. I mentioned a few of them, but maybe it's good to share them with the Chamber one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u281	This is in line with Mrs Nooren's last question. I put a question to the Minister, who has responded, but with an answer that I did not find so clear. That's about the national supply DSO. At the beginning of the debate, the Minister said that this is a service product that local authorities use. Now the management of the DSO-LV, both strategically and operationally, is in the hands of the Ministry of the Interior, the Land Registry and the Rijkswaterstaat. When the new Law on Modernisation enters into force, electronic administrative traffic means, according to our information, that if something goes wrong, those risks will be passed on to or be held accountable by the local authorities, who are not involved in the management. You replied that backups are being made and that attention is being paid, but unfortunately there is a chance that something will go wrong in these kinds of processes. My question was whether it was not wise, but perhaps it has already been done, to make agreements on this between the Empire and the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u282	My understanding is that it has been agreed, but following this question from Mrs Klip, I will once again check whether it is, and whether it is sufficiently clear, because I share with her that it is important that good agreements are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u283	Thank you. Then we'll move on to the finance block. As agreed, we will ask any additional questions at the end of that block. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u284	Mr. Chairman. The financial effects, introduction costs and the availability of resources for the Environment Act. The Environment Act provides more benefits in structural terms than for the Netherlands. This principle applied at the start of the system change and continues to apply to citizens, businesses and public authorities. We work together and take joint responsibility for financially sound implementation. At the start of the system review, a saving of up to 600 million a year was mentioned, for citizens, businesses and governments together. We are also looking at the figures together at the moment, and I expect this saving to remain in focus. But, of course, this does not mean that each party has the same costs and benefits. In particular, you asked questions about the position of the municipalities. I share with you the importance that municipalities have sufficient resources to enable the implementation of the Environment Act. There is a need to invest in order to achieve the benefits. We have made clear agreements on this. At the same time, I notice that in the debate on money, there are sometimes two things that get mixed up. On the one hand, what is the balance between implementation costs and structural benefits? What agreements have the authorities concerned made on this matter? And two: do municipalities have enough resources to prefinance the introduction costs of the Environment Act? First of all about the agreements with the domes. This is about the balance between introduction costs and structural benefits. The VNG is my partner for the financial arrangements. The VNG and the Empire, as well as IPO and UvW, consciously agreed that municipalities should pay their own introduction costs, but that they should also retain structural benefits. So there will be no cuts on the Municipal Fund to reap the benefits. This appointment was made in 2016 in the governance agreement and reconfirmed in 2018 in the management agreement DSO. Furthermore, on the basis of joint agreements, the Empire also paid a total grant of 18 million. The VNG has kept this budget central to support municipalities and the Union has paid the amount to the respective waterboards. It also invests in implementation support to co-governments, 35 million, in the Information Point where all governments can go and be helped with questions about system changes, 10 million. Together with the above-mentioned grant, this means that the Empire invests over 60 million, 63 million to be precise, so that the co-governments can work with the Environmental Act. And with the starting point and the expectation that structural benefits are higher than the burden, municipalities do not suffer from the change in the system. But of course we will also evaluate this and keep a close eye on each other. The first evaluation is scheduled for 2022, but until then we will not sit still, because this year too, together with the dome, I am working to provide an overall picture of the expected benefits and costs. So we're just gonna keep looking at the cost development with each other on a permanent basis. The door is not closed until 2022. Is there enough money available from municipalities? When a financial agreement was concluded, all those involved knew that the introduction costs would be partly pre-financed. The benefits will occur after entry into force. That is why the entry into force is also important for the municipalities, because they are already working hard on the implementation of the Environment Act. Some of the tasks they have to perform require external hire. That was a 50PLUS question. At the same time, municipalities have to make zoning plans instead of the environmental plan, and structural visions instead of the environmental vision. Partly, actually an important part, is therefore about tasks that they have always had to carry out. Part of the costs are therefore also incurred without the Environmental Act. Sometimes, for example, ICT is lagging behind. Municipalities then use the transition to the Environment Act as a reason to remove it immediately. This will require additional investments, but they are not necessarily linked to the introduction of the Environment Act, but to the ICT catch-up. Alderman Grayen pointed this out at the hearing in the Lower House last year. She also pointed out that the financial squeeze in municipalities was not caused by the introduction of the Environmental Law, but actually had many other causes. You have often mentioned the social domain, if you referred to it. The introduction costs are an investment, and therefore temporary. Municipalities do have the choice when they make the costs, because they also have the time until 2029 to spread it. So they don't have to make all the costs in one year; they can program it financially themselves. As an indication of the total introduction costs per inhabitant in a medium-sized municipality, the introduction costs around €57 per inhabitant. Distributed over an introduction period of ten years, this is €5.70 per inhabitant per year. For small municipalities this is a bit higher, because the overhead costs there are of course always slightly higher, with amounts up to €7.70. For large municipalities this is a bit less: €3.90 per year. That is, in fact, mainly intended to make a bit of a proportion of the amounts we are talking about. For comparison: the social domain is really different. Unlike in the social domain, there are few additional executive tasks in the Environment Act, and that is precisely why we expect savings by simplifying the rules, while the Municipal Fund is not being cut. The cost of the tasks in the physical domain is now around 2.3 billion a year, financed by the Municipal Fund and partly from fees. As such, this is already much less than the social domain, where the amounts amount to 10 billion per year. If you compare the temporary introduction costs for the Environment Act with the structural additional costs in the social domain.............................................................................................................................................................................................. This is just to indicate that we are talking about a really different order of magnitude here. And I do not do that to trivialize it, because for small municipalities it can still be about decent amounts. I understand the concern about the financial position of the municipalities in general. Some municipalities are also cramped, and if municipalities are cramped, any extra edition can just be difficult. But I thought it was important to outline something of the order of magnitude, also for your own feelings. My colleague from BZK, Minister Knops, is working closely with the dome to look at the municipal finances, including following a number of motions on this matter in the Lower House. The Empire and the municipalities continue to monitor the system changes closely, including in the financial field. If something does not go according to plan on one part, of course we go into consultation. Comments have been made on dropped fees in municipalities. Let me tell you a little bit more about that. What's changed by the Environment Act? The three most important licences. The cost of authorising environmental activities is currently being financed from the general budget. Municipalities and provinces are entitled to charge fees for this. It is not the taxpayer who pays for the environmental permits, but the person who benefits from the permit. Environmental permits therefore create an additional source of income for municipalities and provinces. There are two major changes around building permits. Very simple buildings are no longer technically tested; think of the roof chapel. This also saves work for the municipalities. Less costs and less fees are next to each other. When a municipality goes global, fewer permits will also be required. This also saves work for the municipalities, and this reduces fees. If fees lapse, this is also due to the absence of work from public authorities. In addition, local authorities can now charge promoters for environmental permits. On balance, in the current Article 2, surveys of the municipalities' finances, calculated that there are around 40 million profits for citizens, 60 million profits for businesses and 15 million additional revenues for the municipalities, the expected effect of the modified fee. In addition, profits are also generated by the removal of administrative burdens. We are also going to look at this with a broader view in the financial investigations, because if permits are replaced by notifications, and that may be the issue with the spatial permits, then you cannot ask for a fee, but there can be work again. So in short, we really, really have to look at this, with the pluses and the minuses. But what I wanted to point out with this somewhat comprehensive story is that we have actually looked at all the pluses and minuses, and haven't gone over it too easily with "it's gonna save" without that being substantiated from which that could exist. By the way, I can tell you that the municipalities, especially after the introduction of the social domain, have, of course, been particularly alert on the financial side of this. You are, but they were, of course, at the table, and rightly so. It might also be good to mention that the management costs of the DSO were also part of the financial arrangements. The management costs of the DSO are directly deducted from the Municipal Fund and therefore do not have to be entered separately in the municipal budget. And in response to the CDA's question, there is about 26 million per year available. That is enough for the arrangements that have been made around the management costs. These are based, among other things, on the extent to which governments use the DSO. We will, of course, continue to monitor this very closely. Then there was a question from Mr Rietkerk about the staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek. He asked questions about the social domain and about stair-to-strap-off. Both these points have the attention of my colleague Mr Knops of the Interior. It is the commitment to dampen the volume fluctuations during this cabinet period in the second half of the current year. Finally, the government agreed with the VNG to complete a further study in the autumn on volume development and deficits in youth care, and the question of whether this is a structural problem. The results of the study therefore serve as input for a forthcoming cabinet formation and other decisions. Specifically about the environmental services the following. The monitor shows that environmental services and municipalities are making agreements on the tasks under the Environmental Act and its financing. This year the VNG and Environment Service NL pay a lot of attention to a good embedding of the implementation of the VTH tasks within the Environment Act. That was also a question from Mr Rietkerk. All environmental services have indicated in the monitor that they will be ready to prepare in good time. There was another question from Mrs Moonen, who also asked about reduced fees. I have answered that in a general way. Let me add that, of course, monitoring and enforcement is also in the public interest, and that this is financed from general resources, not from fees. A reduction in the fee revenue would therefore not lead to a reduction in supervision and enforcement. Mr President, those were the questions about finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u285	Thank you, Minister. I see that Mr Otten is already rushing to the interrupting microphone and I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister exudes a great deal of control over the financial aspects of this process. I was just listening with a lot of interest. Undoubtedly, all the other failed ICT projects of the government have told exactly the same stories: have you patience, it's all gonna be okay, we've calculated it all and it's all gonna work out fantastic. The KEI project would cost 7 million. That turned out to be 200 million and then there was nothing. This is an extremely large project with many actors: 355 municipalities, provinces and so on. There are a lot of paths where things can go wrong. You also often see a certain dynamic in these kinds of processes in the government. How can you guarantee me that I will ask the Minister, through the President-in-Office, that in your case this is completely different from all the other dozens of projects? I can list a laundry list of all those failed projects, which either have not been made or have become far too expensive. How come that doesn't happen to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u287	Warranty might be on a vacuum cleaner these days. The guarantee that it will never happen, so no one can give. We need to be very real about that. What we do do is very clearly have the implementation of this process followed by an independent institute like the BIT. We not only process the recommendations of the BIT, but also have the ADR checked and have a Gateway Review done. We do not only want to judge whether we are doing well, but also let external eyes see if we are doing the right thing. Is that a guarantee that nothing will ever fail? No, but it's what you can expect when you have to run a complex ICT project. I therefore believe that we can give guarantees on the way in which we work, but not by definition on the results. We're still within the scope and within the budget. I'm happy about that. I hope, of course, that this will be the case in future. That is why we will look very strongly at the opinions of the ADR and also at the Gateway Review. We will also keep the Chambers informed of its progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u288	I'm a little freaked out that the minister says, "warranty's on a vacuum cleaner." I get the feeling we're dealing here at some kind of black used car market. I would have expected a little more certainty from the cabinet anyway. Experience has shown that there is a certain dynamic in this type of process in the government, where certain know-how or unknown unknowns that have apparently not been taken into account do occur. You say you're a great monitor, but the world could be very different in two years. The technique is moving on again. We have seen this, for example, in the C2000 system. This was developed at the end of the 1990s and this was completely obsolete within three years. In the end, a few billion have been put in, and it still doesn't work. I'm not convinced anyway. How can the Minister convince us that the dynamics that always occurs in this kind of process in the government in its case do not occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u289	It's gonna be a bit of a special exchange of views. Mr Otten first asks me for a guarantee that he does not actually believe in himself. Then I tried to point out that I think you should be careful about giving guarantees, just because you need to really look at these kinds of complex processes. He says I can't convince him that I can give a guarantee. What are we doing in concrete terms? What we are doing, in concrete terms, is putting into practice tests, cost estimates and cases under constant review. For example, we try to adjust in good time if things occur differently than had been predicted. 'Cause he's right. Of course, there are always developments. All you can do is try to keep you close to those developments in your management of these projects, so you can adjust in time. That's what we're trying to do. That's how we do it. So far it's within the budget and within the time frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u290	Then I'll move on to Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the efforts she has made at all levels to get things moving and to keep things moving. If the introduction law is in place, instructional rules can be set if a municipality does not do something. But what do you have in your hands if a municipality or a city council says all the wisdom: we are not going to invest in preparing for the introduction of the Environmental Law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u292	Municipalities are obliged by law to join the DSO. It follows from the law that they are obliged to cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u293	I believe that. One of the reasons why we are dealing with the introduction law here is to anchor it. It was also about the other elements that we asked questions about, such as culture change, thinking about participation and writing it down in a smart way. In a formal sense, you only hold up the DSO, because other things are all nationwide. I'm just saying that I think we have a law that deals with more than the DSO. I am not concerned about the administrative agreements, but about what we have in our hands when municipalities do not prepare and only connect to the DSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u294	For example, the system of the Environmental Act requires participation in certain projects at the front. If a competent authority does not do so and there would be an objection, the judge can take that and test it. I am trying to point out that in the transition to the system there are certain incentives for municipalities to start thinking about what else to do in order to be able to play their role properly with the new instruments and obligations arising from the Environment Act. That's the legalistic side of it. Of course, much more important is how we take as many municipalities, provinces and waterboards as possible into the movement and how you show them what can be done. Soon when we talk about implementation, I will indicate what steps have been taken to include municipalities in the new works. Indeed, the Environment Act is more than the DSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u295	A third, Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u296	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. After 2021 you can do a lot, because then you have the Environment Act. It's something else that matters to me. So if a municipality doesn't do it, can it actually, in summary, just join the DSO?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u297	The city council has a certain position of its own, of course, but municipalities should soon be able to grant a permit according to the new rules. That's enforceable. The system therefore forces the municipalities to prepare themselves in a certain way. You will always have municipalities that are very enthusiastic about the work and want. We have already seen this in the large number of municipalities that have experimented. There will always be municipalities that are more left behind. We have also conducted a survey there you also had a question about the number of municipalities to what extent they are ready for it. There are a few who have indicated that they have difficulty with it and that they do not know if they will be ready in time. Then it is really important to have direct contact with these municipalities themselves about the question what it depends on with them. When something slows down, it's very often not because people just don't feel like it. Then there are often other reasons why it slows down. I think it is important to find out what's going on there and what additional support these municipalities need to implement in order to be ready with the preparation in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u298	Then Mrs. Moonen. Do you have another question about the issue of finance, which we are currently working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u299	In response to Mr Otten's question, the Minister said that financial savings are not an objective of the Environment Act. A little later in the debate, the Minister says that there are many millions of benefits, which is actually very positive. Those benefits fall to parties, think of citizens and businesses, and are not being skimmed. Doesn't that also apply to waterboards, municipalities and provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u300	Yes. There is no cutback with the introduction of the Environment Act. That applies to all decentralised authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u301	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u302	Then Mrs. Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u303	It may be that I did not quite understand it, but I think there is still an open question about setbacks. Did they run into them and what did they amount to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u304	I don't have a picture of certain setbacks right now. I had understood the question more as: what if there are setbacks in the future? I have indicated that, in part, what is perhaps regarded as a setback, namely the loss of fees, also means the loss of a piece of work. In another place fees are added. We've made an assessment, and we're talking to all the decentralised parties to make sure it's still right. So we will really get any setbacks on the table. The structural analysis of the financial balance of the introduction of the Environmental Act shows that there is scope to absorb possible things and that there will therefore be no skimming at the various competent authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u305	Thank you for that answer, very clear. A number of examples of windfalls have been given and the question was: what are the setbacks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u306	I'm sure there will be. In all honesty, there are always windfalls and setbacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u307	We complete this piece and go to the Minister's last block, implementation support and implementation. In accordance with the agreement, we save any short questions for after the end of that piece. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, Mrs Nooren's remark that a large part of the municipalities had not participated in the survey. I noticed that, too. I was wondering what happened. Every study has to do with non-response. The response of waterboards and the Empire was 100%. Eleven of the twelve provinces did not participate. Among municipalities it was 70%. I think it should be: eleven of the twelve provinces did participate, otherwise it is a strange answer, especially because I say that the response for a survey is high. Not participating in a study does not mean that implementation has not been worked hard. The non-response has been further analysed by researchers. There is no connection with the size of the municipality. Part of the non-response has been called asking why not to participate. This appears to be the result of everyday hustle and bustle, staff changes or because the survey had just been missed. It wasn't because it's not alive or because people don't think they're ready. In the next survey, extra efforts are made to increase the response, but of course we are doing more than just a survey to monitor and to get an image of the organisations. In other ways, too, we keep our finger on the pulse and also through regional support for implementation. Through the domes we keep in touch with the organizations. In the coming period, the VNG will pay extra attention to municipalities that are not familiar with the situation regarding implementation, and to municipalities that we suspect may not be making sufficient progress. This support is provided where it is most needed. In addition, we do so in full latitude with battle sessions, learning circles, hand-outs and example documents, in fact everything we can think of, with special attention to those municipalities where it is for some reason that can be anything not as successful as we would hope. The last monitor shows that 68% of organisations think they will be ready in time. The general picture is that the group of organisations with a good picture of the work is growing. 2% of the organisations, nine municipalities, were not sure if they would be ready in time. This has been contacted to see if extra help is needed. Mr. Rietkerk asked if the Monitor Introduction Environmental Law could be made available digitally soon if it came out. Yes, it is precisely at this last stage that monitoring the state of affairs in the country is essential. It is therefore desirable that the time between observations and publications be as short as possible. For some of the monitor data where new mutations regularly enter, this is possible, for example the number of views and regulations published and the number of connections to the DSO. We are monitoring this very closely within the programme, but I am, of course, very willing to publish this objectively identifiable data by digital means. We'll do that every month. Then you can follow very closely what progress has been made. We will also keep you informed twice a year about the results of the six-monthly survey of project leaders and programme managers. Mrs Klip asked whether there was a clearer picture of the level of preparation after the autumn monitoring. Yes, in most municipalities it is in full swing. There are many training sessions, learning trips, work labs, implementation days, demos, online seminars, information meetings that are very crowded. More and more municipalities are carrying out practical tests. There is a large distribution of municipalities. Since November, there has been a marked increase in activities. There will certainly be tempo differences. Organizations choose their own pace and accents. A minimum list of requirements has been sent so that everyone ultimately meets the minimum basic level, which organisations should have at least regulated. This is legally the lower limit, but many organisations are doing more and are already practicing the new way of working. Even after entry into force I continue to support organisations and continue to measure how the law takes shape in practice. So there will certainly be tempo differences, but that lower limit is the basis for everyone. Mrs Baay asked whether it is realistic that small municipalities meet the minimum criteria in time. Yes, conversations with networks of programme managers Environment Act and the directors show that municipalities, large and small, are working hard on this implementation. In the coming months, each municipality will be asked to reserve a time lock for the connection. Indeed, sometimes smaller municipalities need to hire expertise for this. They do that more often when it comes to software, for example. That's part of the usual hiring that's sometimes needed. As far as costs are concerned, I have already said something about the occasional costs of implementation and what is next for structural costs. Municipalities must meet a set of minimum requirements before entry into force. We're committed to that. Mr Rietkerk also said that in the second quarter of 2020 the provinces would like to be able to publish their draft regulation in accordance with the new standard and a final version by the end of 2020. He asked if this was gonna work. The provinces are busy preparing the content of the environmental visions or have already finished them in concept, according to the implementation monitor. This is therefore in time to incorporate its content into the environmental regulations. This is important, because they are a framework for local authorities' environmental plans. At the moment, the provinces and I are pushing for the draft environmental regulations to be published in the new way, in accordance with the new standards, and made available through the DSO. In view of the planning, this should be done by 1 April 2020. We're working hard on it, and it still seems feasible right now. Then there's the introduction support. In the inter-administrative program, we work together. There are many different meetings and support tools. To give you an image: we have roadmaps, action lists, factsheets, steel maps, handouts, libraries, online trainings, Train the trainer-trainings, an inspiration guide participation, pilots and projects, an online magazine that appears quarterly, an information point Environment Act. The domes also support their members in the preparation. The VNG has a special programme for knowledge development of council members and the Environment Act. In 2020, the focus of implementation support will be on a regional approach and the connection to rural provision. A team of regional implementation supporters has been set up to go to organisations to resolve concrete bottlenecks and issues there. We will continue to do so, even after the law enters into force. A number of members have asked: does the implementation support stop in mid 2021? No, I think we should go through with it. We note with each other that this is not just a moment from a switch to a digital system. There is a whole process in which municipalities can decide to modify parts of the dowry. If in 2023 a municipality says, "I want to do it now but I have questions and I need support in doing so," I think we should make sure that we provide that support. A few nice examples of what's happening. Train the trainer: train people in the organisation to train their own people in the Environment Act. 80 trainers have been trained in Groningen, Zuid-Holland, Noord-Brabant and Overijssel, who have already trained over 2,000 government staff in these regions. For the first quarter of 2020 sixteen workshops from Train the trainer will be organised in the country from the aforementioned provinces. I still have a lot of examples like this. I will not tire you of all that, but it is very nice to see what is happening and how hard it is being worked. You're right to say that a lot of people need to get to work. Let me give you an example: the battle sessions. That is what the CDA asked for in particular. They're a huge success. This week and next week there will be five sessions in the country with over 600 participants. These consist of practical workshops. How do you do that, a question tree, according to the B1 standard? It has been asked whether there is an adequate training programme, including for municipalities and environmental services. Yes, that whole implementation program is also open to the environmental services. They make a lot of use of that. In different regions we see environmental services taking a leading role in implementation. The CDA asked whether agreements have been made with municipalities and environmental services about advising. Municipalities can use the knowledge and expertise of environmental services in policy weighing in the context of planning. That's not a basic task. If that's what they want, we have to make agreements about it. The talks on this have begun. 18 of the 29 environmental services have agreed on the advisory task. This is also on the monitor and we will continue to monitor it. Then I come to the social support of organisations and citizens. It is extremely important that not only the government, but also civil society organisations and citizens can get away with the Environment Act and the DSO. From the outset, umbrella organisations of industry and also of nature and the environment have been involved. During the past year we have also made contact with residents' groups, especially through the Dutch National Partnership Active residents. With VNO-NCW and SMEs, we have agreed on joint information for SMEs and larger companies. This information will take shape in 2020. We have also made agreements with these corporate boards to give joint and phased form and content to an SME test. This will take place in 2020. In addition, the Rijk supports the business sector in its implementation through a well-functioning knowledge centre and Information Point Environment Act. There, governments and companies can ask specific questions. In 2019, a knowledge day for communication professionals was organised in collaboration with the professional association for communication, focusing on the introduction communication and participation under the Environmental Act. The professional association also has a special department for the Environment Act. For example, I can continue to tell you who worked with them, but I think you believe that we have been working on a lot of different issues. I think it is important to mention the next point. In view of the residents and their role in the Environment Act, we have recently had a number of consultations with the National Ombudsman's Office. I said earlier that after a personal conversation with him, I also said: let us really move forward together, and bring forward signals that we may not yet foresee, in good time. If there are things that we need to do with each other in the next few years in that introduction somewhere, then we need to discuss them. I was asked whether this personal contact remains possible. And if so, how is it designed? I would like to draw your attention to the proposal for the modernisation of electronic administrative traffic. But there is also a general duty of care in the General Administrative Law Act. Article 2.1 of that Act establishes a general duty of care for all public authorities for appropriate support in contact with the public authorities. So there's already a legal guarantee in that that's how it's supposed to be arranged. We will, of course, ensure that we also monitor this closely in the evaluation with each other. Then I come to the introduction support. Of course, that's quite a job. I have already indicated that we support the introduction in a variety of ways. But I think it's most important that we don't stop doing that. Both Mr Verkerk and Mrs Nooren asked what is being done to organize the cultural change in the governments. Attention should be paid to the changing capacity of the connecting government organisation. A number of very relevant comments have been made. That is why we devote a great deal of attention to this in the programme Getting started with the Environment Act. And this also applies: you cannot give a guarantee, but we want to take as many people as possible. I hope that I have also shown the Chamber with all these initiatives that a great deal is being done to make it known to everyone. Most governments have started adapting internal processes and expect to be ready in time. But cultural change is also a long-term thing. This is something that has been explicitly highlighted in the review of the law. We also carried out zero measurements to monitor the change in perception of initiators, stakeholders and service providers during the evaluation. So that's how we keep an eye on this culture change. In addition, we offer a culture monitor tool. This can also be used by governments to measure the progress of the cultural change in their own municipality. By the way, a lot of experiments have already been carried out. Those lessons learned are shared, too. That all helps with the cultural change. Ms Baay of 50PLUS explicitly asked whether these regional teams would remain after the introduction of the Environment Act. And will the costs not be borne by the municipalities, but by the Empire? Yeah, I can confirm that. Those regional teams will remain and that deployment support will not be charged. At the expense of the Empire, therefore, we will continue to do so, because, as I have just said, the careful implementation of the Environment Act is of great importance. A final point about informing citizens and businesses is perhaps the final part of the whole. I am referring to a national information campaign. It may be that the initial analyses show that it may be much more effective to let people know exactly in a municipality: what does the introduction mean for you here in the municipality? However, it is also a big change that people should also be aware of in general. So I would like to give you a national information campaign to conclude my first-term response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u309	Thank you, Minister. Then again, it is time for some brief, clarifying questions. This may also raise the question of where the term "stroke session" comes from, but we await that. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister mentioned at the beginning of this block that there are nine municipalities that would not be ready for connection at the moment. I have a very brief question on that. What nine municipalities are those?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u311	I don't know. I don't know. I don't know if it's necessarily appropriate to mention it here. But at least these nine municipalities are contacted. I think that's more important. These municipalities didn't say, "We're not done." These municipalities have concerns about whether they will be ready in time. But we're going to do everything we can to support them. At least they're clear on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u312	I ask because, of course, I have also spoken to municipalities myself. I am simply curious whether that would then be the municipalities that the Minister would also mention in her reply. Or are there some other municipalities that aren't ready or need help?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u313	I can say two things about that. We've just been talking about the response to the survey. Some of them didn't respond. Of course, you can never rule out that some of the municipalities that have not responded would also have concerns about whether they will be ready in time. That is why there will be another survey and we will continue to monitor, through the VNG and the domes. So we keep an eye on whether there are any other municipalities that need support. We now know about these nine municipalities, so that is what we are going for explicitly. If you have any other signals, I'd like to hear it. Because I would like to pick up as many of those signals as possible, so that we can look at the municipalities where questions are being asked and see what support can be given. That way we could make sure that they can be ready in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u314	I'm gonna go clockwise now. I call Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u315	The President's roads are inscrutable. Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment that there will also be a national, broad 'introduction campaign'; that is what I would like to call it. That was one of our questions. Another question from us was: where is the knowledge of all those officials who have been working on this for years? Of course, they're going to do something different at some point. The Minister admits that she will not stop offering a knowledge and support programme. We are pleased with that. But what criteria do you meet when you stop doing that? Of course, we do not expect the answer: we will stop doing so on 13 April 2026. But we could imagine that there would be consultation about stopping that knowledge and support programme. This should be done on the basis of a mutual agreement with the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u316	I was afraid for a moment that you would ask me to oblige all the fantastic officials who have worked so hard on this to continue doing this work for the rest of their lives, but I am glad that you are not going there anyway. I would like to do it personally, but I would also like these officials, with all their qualities, to be able to take another step at some point. But you are right to draw attention to this. How are we gonna figure out what else is needed? I myself have the feeling that we should actually assume that this support is still needed in the first five years, and that after those five years we are going to look at what is still needed. We will, of course, do so in consultation with the municipalities, with the domes, with the other local authorities. The municipalities have the time until 2029, but I can also imagine that the bulk of the work is in the first period. But, of course, that's something we need to look at together. We have to make it a success together. That also means that we have to talk about this kind of thing with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u317	Mrs. Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u318	Thank you for that commitment. Yeah, that makes sense when you see the walk-up. And I must tell you that this is probably not just the case with officials. All spokesmen in this Chamber are also happy when we are done with the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u319	Mrs. Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u320	What makes me ask again: how do we ensure the knowledge of this minister? But maybe she can keep doing it in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u321	In any case, I will come back two more times, because the Supplementary Act sound and the Supplementary Act soil I also come to discuss with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u322	Sure, we look forward to it. I'll take a look at the chairman, too. We've been given a presentation on participation. Is it the intention to talk about this in this period? Or does the President propose to do so in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u323	I thought we'd be talking about implementation support and implementation right now. If you want to discuss this now, you can, but you can also respond to it in your second term. Perhaps the Minister would prefer to discuss it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u324	It was more of an overview I gave you. I would like to answer further questions on this in the second term, because I can also take into account the questions about participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u325	Well, that's gonna be dealt with by a motion. Depending on the answers, that motion will stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u326	Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u327	I would like to thank the Minister for the various commitments she has made. I also initially asked for the training of municipal councils and provincial states, including over the elections. I am no longer sure that you have promised to invest in it and that you will ensure that it is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u328	As part of the implementation guidance, it is absolutely important that we not only train the people who are sitting there now, but also that we pay attention in the coming years to the good training of city councils and state members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u329	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u330	Mrs. Klut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u331	Thanks for the commitment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u332	In fact, we will do the same with the domes, but that goes without saying, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u333	Thank you for the commitment to the national campaign. I have asked for a specific section, namely increasing people's ability to act in order to participate in the participation process, and where they can ask for advice or tips if they wish to enter a legal process. You indicated that a great deal is already being done, but I cannot fully see whether this is in it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u334	Let me honestly say that I am not yet able to see whether this level of detail is also suitable for a national campaign. In any case, with a national campaign, we must ensure that people are aware that there is a change and that much is possible through participation. We need to make sure they know where to get further information. So we're gonna focus on how we can make sure people know where to get information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u335	May I ask for some rest on the left? It really bothers you when you're debating this. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u336	It was just as quiet and your story lasted a very long time. It was like we were getting another advertising stunt thrown over us: train the trainer. It couldn't be better. We have all recently been given the booklet Getting started with the Environment Act. Mr. Janssen and I sat in that book and said: do you notice that no one is laughing in any picture? You'd better take a look, fellow members. It's all some fucking faces. Speaking of concern, I just heard that only nine municipalities have indicated that they probably won't make it. It was immediately said that 100 municipalities did not respond at all. Those 100 may also have municipalities that can't make it. This brings me back to the figures and to Mr Verkerk's remark that I may have mistakenly suggested that we were being deceived. I do not want to suggest this at all, but I read in the answer the following: the implementation monitor shows that most of the municipalities have already started the work needed to meet these criteria, the basic criteria. When I look at the monitor, I read: as far as the design or adaptation of processes to change the environmental plan is concerned, we see that about 15% of the municipalities are already starting to do so. Nearly half of this group, 7.5%, has drawn up a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u337	A brief question, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u338	Approximately 43% of all municipalities have plans to work on this topic. Doesn't that bother you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u339	Then you always have to look very closely, because if it is said that the majority of the preparation has started, then it may be that a part of the installation or modification of the process has started around the environmental plan and another part with other parts of the preparation. You have the entire monitor with all the numbers for you there. I can't comment it out of my head in detail. But when I hear what you're saying, you mention parts of what the collection might consist of. What matters is that when you vote on this bill, you do not vote on the question: is it ready? And: do I know at this point whether it is ready to enter into force on 1 January 2021? You will receive a great deal of information for this in the near future. Where there is interim information available, such as the monitor that Mr Rietkerk asked for digitally, we will make sure that you can see that information, so that you can follow the development with it. The domes all want to start as of 1 January 2021. So hopefully we will see a lot of progress. If it turns out that this is not the case, then we have to agree that, for example, we should postpone it for a six-month period for careful implementation. I've been clear about that. We're gonna work hard on each other first. All these municipalities are working very hard. The domes are dying to meet the deadline. We will always share the new figures with you in the monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u340	Mr Nicolaï, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u342	I thank the Minister for her first term. Then there is the matter of the second term of office. Can we also start that second deadline or is there still a need for a short suspension? I see there's a need for a short suspension. Is ten minutes enough? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u343	The next item is the second term of office. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u344	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed and clear answer to the questions. Despite the fact that it seemed to me yesterday that my wish for a complementary debate would be pushed into the ground, it has, after all, become a nice complementary debate, for which thanks to all those involved and those present. The Minister's replies confirm the image we had received. The question on the integral review has been answered. There has been talk of legal protection in the new Environment Act, which also offers space for carried interpretation of space. We are pleased with that, too. So with all the information we have obtained, we have enough information to make our assessment. Thank you in particular for the commitment on the important issue of implementation and aftercare teams. That's what I wanted to leave it at because of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u345	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. Then I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u346	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, the PvdA Group congratulates Mr Verkerk on his wonderful maiden speech. He's not here? Or is he here? I don't really know. We look forward to next debates with him, but above all to the continuation of the fine cooperation. We thank the Minister for the comprehensive, motivated and expert answers. We welcome all the commitments that have been made. I do not think it would be useful at this time to repeat them all, but I would like to raise a few points which are of interest to our group. And I have a few more questions to clarify. Prerequisite: a vote in favour of the introduction law and the adoption decision is not in agreement with the entry into force of the Environment Act as of 2021. By the way, that Environment Act has already been accepted in this Chamber. There is still a great deal of uncertainty and much remains to be done. We must be very optimistic with each other and hope that it will succeed, but I think I speak on behalf of my entire group when I say that we will then take the position of being better in half than in total error. If it turns out that it doesn't work in the summer, we shouldn't fall into a trap and we shouldn't have a discussion of: how could the First Chamber stand on the brakes in such a late stage of the process? As far as we are concerned, we are not talking about the entry into force of the KB until a number of things are clear. The Minister has indicated what is being put forward. We also thank her for the commitment to give an overview of what is ready when it is ready. Our struggle is still part of the second BIT advice. I understand it's an independent advice. At the same time, Mr Janssen asked, among other things, for an opinion, it is important to know where the DSO ends in the end. Indeed, some of the promises we make to each other about the social added value of the system will only come into force if that whole DSO works. We are pleased that the Minister believes that the Environment Act should come into force only when all the water boards, provinces and municipalities are ready and that it indicates exactly how it works. We are pleased that there is now a long-term support plan for all parties, in all kinds of ways. My group believes that the government is really taking its direction. We have asked a number of questions about this. We are pleased that this does not wait for local authorities to ring the bell and that, if they do not make any noise, there is a proactive attitude from the entire support team. We are also pleased with the answers on the NOVI. We look forward to the letter of February and hope very much, but we have been promised that it is more substantive than the answer we have had. We do have a question about it. First it was said that the letter would come at the end of February, but somewhere the Minister said that it might not come at the end of February. We want to know when that letter will come. So I'd like an answer from the Minister. We believe that this also lends itself to a written or oral consultation with the Minister. There is no doubt that we will be asked how the legislation of the NOVI, the supplementary laws and perhaps other legislation, for example on climate and living, interacts with each other. What should then be arranged nationally and some provincial and local? We have another important point. That is the obligation to participate, including the obligation to provide information, because these two cases are mutually exclusive, plus the corresponding legal protection. We are pleased that you have listened carefully to the National Ombudsman, or in other words put your hands together, to see how you get active, involved citizens, even if people are not very mature or expert. Maybe they should be tempted to join. We are pleased that it is also being monitored. As far as participation is concerned, we have been given an overview of what it was like, whether it is, or state, in which is the motivation, the freedom of choice and, above all, the opportunity. I think it has become clear from the debate that this is a little too thin for us. In the first part of the debate, we did not quite get to know exactly what it would be like. In order to avoid a third deadline, we have tabled a motion which I would also like to make on behalf of a number of other groups, including the Christian Union, 50PLUS, the SGP and GroenLinks. The President shall: Mr Nooren, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Crone, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Verkerk and Mr Kluit proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proper shaping of participation is an essential part of the Environment Act;]] [[Whereas it is important for both residents and promoters to understand the requirements of local authorities for participation;]] [[noting that the government has not yet given sufficient guidance on the requirements for participation;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the Implementing Decision Environment Act the obligation for municipalities, provinces and water boards to draw up, by 2021, a participation regulation laying down how they are to shape participation and what requirements apply to it and to adopt this participation regulation in municipal, provincial and general water authority, respectively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-X]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u347	We have wisely written behind these two points that it is not an administrative decision, but a decision of local participation. In any case, the municipal councils and the provincial states participate in this. Then I come to a part about the role of justice. Mr Nicolaï spoke about this in detail. On the one hand, it is about sufficient funding and holding on to it. On the other hand, it is about the consequences if the administrative judge does not carry out a broad assessment. Is the administrative judge going to carry out a procedural or actual assessment of the content of the case? In my view, this will only work if we look more broadly at whether it is procedurally in order. I believe that Mr Nicolaï's second contribution will deal with this. He also has a motion that we support. It is also important to monitor how it works in practice. I am glad that this point is taken into account in the evaluation. It is also nice that the Minister has made commitments on monitoring, including with regard to the EIA, which Mrs Kluit has expressly requested, and the independent review by setting up an independent committee. We also have a question. I note that in a lot of response work is being done on the letter at the entry into force of the KB. I know from the previous period that we have been wrestling with your predecessor about how independent the independent committee is. The request to the Minister is therefore: would it not be wise to inform us of a number of things earlier? Then we do not get to a point, when we talk about the entry into force of the KB, that a lot of points still have to be worked out. That'll all be around the summer period. The request is therefore that, if you have already worked out a number of issues in mind, you present them to us earlier. It is also good to invest in the implementation guidance, monitoring and the reconciliation of data through monitoring. This was in particular a response to questions from Mrs Klip, who were actually asked wider in the Chamber. On that basis, decisions can be taken in a manner that is beyond 2021. We are concerned about the follow-up, but we may not be able to take it off today. We are always talking about an introduction KB around the summer. We have quite early recesses and we can only discuss this well if we have it on time. So I would be interested to know a little more about the follow-up timetable; perhaps the Minister can promise it, and we can get it through the IWO committee. For what is the follow-up until 1 January, given the time-limits for the European Parliament's term of office, which does not need to be today, even after this debate? What decision should be taken to take responsible next steps? We look forward to the Minister's answers to the questions we have still asked. Depending on those answers, I will discuss with my group what we are doing with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u348	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. Mrs Baay has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u349	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating Mr Verkerk on his maiden speech. I look forward to a pleasant and continued cooperation between us. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for answering the many, many questions that have been asked, both yesterday and today. Since the matter is quite comprehensive and it is certainly not always clear for my group, I would like to list a number of things. 50PLUS has taken note of the Minister's remark that this system change has the objective of making environmental law more transparent and user-friendly. In this sense, the term "user" includes both the administrative body and the citizen as well as the interested party and the initiator. So this term actually applies to the whole group. Mr. Chairman. Does my group understand that, in a course leading to the administrative court, it only reviews it on the principles of good governance in conflicts relating to permits covered by the Environment Act? I'll also come back to the not-full practice year. Of the year 2020, the first month, January, is already over. My group once again refers to the 2015 administrative agreement, which agreed to hold a full year in preparation. Will the date of entry into force of the Environmental Act be postponed to 1 February 2021 anyway? Actually, that's what I asked in the first term. In its second term, the Minister has promised to return to how it is ensured that the application for authorisation can always be made on paper. Mr. Chairman. I hear the Minister repeatedly say that legal protection does not change when the Environment Act is introduced, but how do the following things relate to each other? The submission of an application for an interim provision shall have suspensive effect under the zoning plan, but no suspensive effect of a supply request shall be present in the environmental plan. I would like to have a clear explanation of this. Finally, Mr President. Can the Minister put the commitments made in a letter of office before next Tuesday, so that we have the right clarification of the commitments in mind? This will help the group to make its final assessment of this bill in the coming week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u350	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Verkerk. I also look forward to working together and working together for the soft interests in our society. It was a long debate. Our chairman has taught us a lot of rules again. We're getting better at it, I've noticed. We talked a lot today. At the end of the day, I wonder if we have a good picture of everything now, but at least I think we have a better picture. I thought it was a pleasant debate, and I would like to thank the Minister and the officials for their prompt response and their expert view of the matter. Why do we need this law? A number of times it was mentioned that the Netherlands had stalled. I asked Mrs. Klip about it. "Failure," what does that mean? I understand that many drivers in the Netherlands feel frustrated because they regularly run into borders, want things that can't and have to change things, make them sound more poor or what you have to do in that context. The fact is that the Netherlands will never be free from rules, because of course we all live very closely together and have very vulnerable interests that we have to protect. So I don't expect us to be completely rule-free with the Environment Act either. After all, the rooftop of one or the old tree of the other is the blind of someone else again. Everyone looks at things differently. The fact is that the Netherlands is stuck in another place at the moment. Then I'm talking about the nitrogen and also about the pfas. The reason for this lies not so much in the compelling rules that we had or in the high value of protection, but in the inadequate legislation that we have all adopted. That is an important point for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. We want each other to adopt legislation that has resilience, robustness and legal standing. I've heard a lot of shared concerns about controlling natural and environmental values. Are the congregations ready? Are environmental services ready? Is the Digital System ready? I have heard constitutional aspects in the Christian Union and the SP. They might take a little more for the evaluative side: let's see how it goes and we'll monitor it. Perhaps we will be taking the more fundamental side in a moment: if we have to ask questions of this kind, should we do so? We have also heard many concerns about implementation. We have received some very good promises about this. The CDA has also asked: how is progress and is it sufficiently guaranteed? Mrs Nooren and Mrs Baay have asked a great many questions about democracy, the participation and legal certainty of our citizens. Mrs Oomen has paid a great deal of attention to the substantive objectives and to the question whether they are going well. In short, I do feel strengthened in my concerns. At first I felt like a kind of crying in the desert in this committee, but I'm glad you've all joined up by now. I find the uncritical attitude of the Forum for Democracy striking. I am going to say something about it explicitly, given the criticism made by the Forum for Democracy about the rulings of judges. This is the moment when you, as a politician, need to be heard about the standards that judges judge against. If you don't, you're gonna let your turn pass. But there are also differences between us. Is this a decentralisation or not? Mr Rietkerk says no, because the municipalities already have a purse. I say yes, but that purse might be two bags now, or it's gonna be a lot fuller. Is that a decentralisation or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u352	The Council of State itself, where we've been, thinks so. I quoted them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u353	I have no question of this to Mr Rietkerk. In any case, the municipal bags are more heavily filled with the dowry. Therefore, environmental services are also enabled to help them. Then, of course, the question is how we are going to prevent the citizens from experiencing it as if the environmental services were taking off with the messages. I am therefore also pleased with the national campaign promised by the Minister, so that all citizens know where they stand. I also hope that in the future we will see a little more practicality when it comes to helping citizens to find their way. I continue to ask questions, but I am satisfied with the Minister's reply. I also welcome the other commitments. Like Mrs Nooren, I will not repeat them all. I do have one more question about the E.R. Thank you for our monitoring and annual monitoring, including the project decision assessments. But would you perhaps remind the municipalities once again that it is part of their tasks to draw up these EIAs? Because perhaps that is not going well, given the signals from the Commission for the m.e.r. I am also pleased with the information promised before the Royal Decree. I hope that the BIT report on development is there. I hope the cost overview is shared with IPO and VNG. Good. The independent evaluation committee. It's wonderful that you're in the same position as we are. We are very pleased with that. I'm sure we'll talk more about the DSO. We will ask again about privacy and timing. Are things going well in terms of execution? Then I have one more bigger question, namely a block of questions about the timing of the transition. I'm genuinely worried about that. We want to change a lot in the Netherlands. If we change all the rules that are underneath, are we not at great risk that all these transitions are going to go wrong? I know the minister well. I know she has the same green heart as me. I am still looking for a way in which we can monitor it with each other and also have some kind of valve or emergency brake. If we find that the new environmental law gets in the way of the big transitions, how do we get rid of it? I heard someone say something, but I couldn't understand. I'm coming to the summary. Like other colleagues, I have just read Mr Tjeenk Willink's booklet about thinking bigger, doing smaller. As GroenLinks, we still have big questions about the design of the law. We're not going to solve them at this stage. It concerns the safeguarding of nature and the environment. We can keep an eye on a lot of things, but there are fundamental differences of thought. There are the pressure on the local authorities and the big transitions, but there are also the signals from people I think they really know about this. I call the Council of State, I call the PAS attorneys, Valentijn Wösten and Johan Vollenbroek among others, and the Council of Justice. I also mention our colleague Peter Nicolaï, who knows what he is talking about. We will also support a number of Mr Nicolaï's motions in the hope that we will continue to bring his expertise into the process. Is this the law that we need right now to bring about major changes? We have great doubts about this. I have great doubts about that. We are going to talk about it in the group, but I think I will advise them to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u354	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I call Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u355	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate and congratulate Mr Verkerk on his maiden speech. It's in line with expectations, I'd like to say. That's how I met him since June 11th. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for her answers, with the exception of the answers to two questions, on financial security for seveso companies and on the burden of proof in the application of best available techniques. In the revision permits, my questions were mostly contemplative in nature. Thank you for the commitment on financial security. As we said in the second term, I would like another response to the issue of the revision permit, BAT, best available techniques, and the burden of proof. It is a pity that in a debate in which it is so much about technology, the more contemplative subjects and questions what undersnow. There were some serious concerns among Herman Tjeenk Willink, Kim Putters and Alex Brenninkmeijer. These are all people who are genuinely concerned about whether there is a division in society between those who are still coming and those who are no longer coming, because they are really losing their way in our government systems. That is why it is right that the National Ombudsman should want to be involved in defending the interests of the group of people who are incapable or less capable of doing so. My group therefore assumes that the National Ombudsman will report on his involvement from his own independent role. I saw his annual programme. We also assume he'll ring the bell when he gets signals that it's not going well. I'll personally invite him to that in a message. Mr. Chairman. I have not received an answer to my question about the complexity that the introduction of the Environment Act adds to the already complicated and confusing times around nitrogen and pfas. What if you, as a citizen or a company, are already busy this year finding a solution to the problems you have in this area, and the rules will be changed again from 1 January, before you can get started with the rules? What does it do with trust in government if you are overtaken by changing rules? My question to the Minister is whether there is special attention to the coincidence of procedures in relation to the introduction of the Environment Act, if there is a majority in favour of it next week. There's something I have to say about Proust, because if he didn't, he'd be completely out of the picture. In line with the famous scene in which Proust eats a madeleine and the taste and smell of this small shell cupcake lead him back to distant memories, the Environment Act and the DSO also take me back to the credit crisis, the PAS and the Inspect project at NVWA, where the Minister of LNV pulled the plug last year. It's no different. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Nooren's questions on the date of the veil. It seems complicated: before July 1st, while the recess starts on July 8th. Are we gonna get over it? Are we gonna pull it forward? Are we gonna stop time and just talk about it in September? Can I respond to Mrs Nooren's question on this point? Then we have some clarity about that, too. Mr. Chairman. I have heard the Minister repeatedly say that there will be no Royal Decree if the joint governments do not feel right. Just to be clear, next week, the First Chamber of Parliament has already agreed to the introduction law, but not yet agreed to the when. It's not about it anymore, it's about when. I heard the Minister say the same thing. However, this gives a very uncomfortable feeling if, for example, it turns out that the DSO is not going to make what it should actually do, namely being the robust cork on which the Environment Act is stable. This is also the case if the municipalities cannot give the meaning that is intended or if the law is simply broken legally. The latter would also be a possibility. Then the "never enter" can also become a "never enter." Does the Minister recognize that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the fact that the Minister has made it clear once again that it is not possible to participate in proceedings, such as: you could have participated, but you did not, so now you are unlucky, because that is what you should have done then; now it stands in the way of the procedure and you are being thrown against it. That was a major concern for me, and I am pleased that that has been said again by the Minister. I would also like to repeat that very clearly. Mr. Chairman. The concerns about a law that will turn out to be too big to fail have not been removed for me. After this treatment too much remains unclear, unmistakable and unmistakable. In my opinion, I have said that in the first term too, in the turbulent and uncertain time in which our society is now, this is not the time to add further uncertainties. My belief is that there is now a need for predictability, stability and administrative calm. In my first term I quoted Herman Tjeenk Willink. He argues that the quality of implementation determines the credibility of the government. I do not see that quality of implementation at the moment. This is reinforced by the fact that we are awaiting progress reports. To what extent have the recommendations of the 2017 BIT report been followed as well as the report of the BIT on the further development of scenario 3, as I keep mentioning in the language of the governance agreement? The current level is an intermediate step, I'm gonna go over it again. I don't want this where we are now to be the terminal. Mr. Chairman. Given the function of the DSO, those reports are crucial for me to be able to determine whether the Environment Act will work as intended. It follows that at the moment I cannot form an informed opinion on the feasibility of the Environmental Act. In view of my input, it will not surprise the Minister, I think, that I will advise my group not to agree to the proposal before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u356	I call Mrs Klip-Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u357	Thank you, Mr President. I too, of course, begin by congratulating Mr Verkerk on his maiden speech. The beauty of maiden speeches is that you get to know someone a little better. That was the case today, so thank you for that. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister and through her all the officials for the many detailed answers we have received. I would add something to that, because I understood that Mr Nicolaï and Mr Janssen have jointly looked at a leaflet with all outspoken gloomy people. I am opposed to this by the Minister, who, since last night, has only looked at us very cheerfully and has formulated her questions. Mr. Chairman. I am also pleased that the Minister has clearly expressed the philosophy of the legislation in her contribution. That is also the vision of the VVD. That has been discussed a number of times yesterday. As a government, you have a responsibility to align your laws and regulations with the wishes of and developments in society. Governments don't do that for themselves. They do that for all those inhabitants, businesses and organisations that have ambitions for the future. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments she has made towards the VVD Group. I'll just name them just in case, so there are no misunderstandings. There were three of them. The Minister has undertaken to develop a system to deal with the lessons learned and improvement points from the many monitors and evaluation pathways in a prudent manner, so that the philosophy behind the Environment Act will remain intact. We could imagine that the Minister, without a date attached, would carefully inform the Chamber more specifically by means of an interim letter. The Minister has also undertaken to continue the support programme under way, which may be updated or adapted, after 1 January 2021. This will transfer knowledge and practical information for co-governments as well as for residents, businesses and many others for at least five years. Then, together with the local authorities, it will be decided what is or is not necessary after those five years. Thirdly, we received the promise that the minister is working on a national launch campaign, so that no one in the Netherlands could have noticed that we are on our way to a new design of our environmental law. I am still waiting for the Minister's reply on the agreements between local authorities and the Empire on the continuity and responsible management of DSO-LV, but I shall be no surprise to say that my group will advise to vote positively on this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u358	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I call Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u359	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Verkerk. I really liked the maiden speech. I'm also impressed by the wonderful work experience you've gained in your life. The D66 Group would like to thank the Minister for the constructive dialogue with this Chamber which we had this afternoon, which we started last night, and for answering all the questions. The Minister has made many promises today. The following commitments are important for the D66 Group. I'm just gonna walk by. It concerns first of all the commitment that the Minister will indicate in a letter to the House of Representatives on the National Environment Vision how she will make this vision more directional. In her own words, she has literally said: I will tighten up the Novi. We look forward to that letter with interest. Secondly, the Minister made a commitment that a separate legislative proposal will be introduced for the reinforcement notice in Groningen, drawing on the experience of the Crisis and Recovery Act and the design of the Environment Act. Thirdly, the Minister said that the annual monitoring by an independent committee will also monitor how the balance between protection and exploitation is in practice achieved. In the same category, the same independent committee also monitors annually what the experience of legal protection is in practice. These are important commitments for all of us. Finally, the Minister made a commitment to include participation in the Implementing Decision of the Environment Act. Mr. Chairman. All overseeing, and in particular the more productive consideration that we have agreed on the royal decree, I will advise the D66 group to agree to this Introduction Act Environment Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u360	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mrs Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations on behalf of the PVV Group to Mr Verkerk for his maiden speech. Thank you to the Minister for answering all the questions. It has promised that it will continue to be possible to submit a paper application and that the help of municipalities will always be possible when submitting an application. Does the Minister say that a physical window will always remain mandatory? Mr Verkerk referred to this earlier. A simple yes or no is enough. And just before my imagery: is it true that the Minister has promised that following the introduction of the Environment Act, there will be an obligation to publish permits and environmental plans in writing in the local newspaper or other local medium, not only digitally? My final point is more of a reminder, which concerns my first question on extra money for the judiciary, to which I shall be happy to see the answer later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u362	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. Then it is Mr Rietkerk's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate our colleague Mr Verkerk on his maiden speech, on a good follow-up to the cooperation and a look at his surroundings. It has also led to contacts over the past period that his farewell speech and the concept of "religion" in it, reconnecting, have given me new inspiration. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers to the questions put by the CDA Group. A few points in this second term. This concerns first of all the National Environment Vision. We would receive a progress note on this in February. Then there was some other language. I heard you say very well: spring. From my experience, spring to June runs for far too long. So can you be more specific about that? If you don't make it to February, what will? Secondly, participation. In any event, in the debate we have had, we as the CDA Group have been told that a supplement is needed. That supplement was also provided by the Minister through the requirement of justification. The same applies to the necessary publication. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, that is a clarification and improvement on what we have seen so far in the written documents. I quote the Minister: 'It is about the quality of participation in local government and provincial government and in water boards'. We attach great importance to the fact that the competent bodies, the councils, the States and the general administrations of those water boards themselves fill that out. Among other things, I did not hear Mrs Nooren speak of the government. The government when it comes to national interests will soon have the National Environment Vision, and we have a responsibility in that and so do you. On behalf of the CDA Group, therefore, my question is how you see it. I am not going to repeat the questions that have been asked and the commitments that have been made about the DSO. We look forward to the progress letter for the debate on the front line of the Royal Decree. We have indicated the importance, as you yourself wish, of giving a realistic picture towards the end of 2020. The connection of municipalities and the cost development of a number of municipalities will ensure that they still need a number of months. It will be an ambition for a number of municipalities to be ready to join in the autumn. Just now I understood that you said on a question from Mrs Nooren: well, that will be before June. Did I misunderstand that or did you say so? We also look forward to the BIT opinion that will be published between now and June. The next point is the quality of the professionals. A number of spokesmen have already indicated this to your own advisors. The CDA Group wants to draw attention to the professionals at municipal level and to provinces and the environmental services that take responsibility for their implementation. It is very important, as a number of groups have said, that this implementation is crucial for public confidence. We're seeing the training programs. Mrs Klip also asked for multiannual training programmes. I hope that will actually happen and that we will get a little more idea of this in the report, perhaps for the next few months. Because if it stops in the execution, as with other government executive services, then we see a great concern and a great risk there. Then the evaluation. As far as we are concerned, and other groups also indicated, the Minister made a very clear commitment to setting up an independent evaluation committee. The Minister finally said on questions and interruptions that the Minister also intends to do so annually. I'd like to hear if I understood that correctly. By the way, and then I would like to join with the comments made by other groups, it would be good if we were to be presented with a clear timetable, as I see it, and Mrs Nooren asked for it, but so would others. As far as we are concerned, this does not have to be done before the votes, but we do want to have an idea of this. For example, we do not have to wait until the end of June to set up the independent evaluation committee. We can do it faster. Then we can have written discussions on this and ask questions about it. We must avoid a very large letter coming very late. Then it rubs against the recess, and then we even have a Monday night and a Tuesday not enough, because then there will be a lot in it. This is crucial for the assessment of the date of introduction. Finally. Both our first and second term as well as the Minister's answers give us confidence that there is still a route to be followed, with some uncertainties, but we hope that the letter for the KB adoption decision will provide answers to that. I can also be clear: I will give a positive advice to the group of the CDA on the Environmental Law Introduction Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u364	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, congratulations to Mr Verkerk. It is Mr Verkerk of the CU, I say just to Mr Nicolaï, and not to the CHR, who went into the CDA 40 years ago. That was a pity in itself, because it was a good reformed party, but fortunately all those reformed members have found shelter with the SGP, so that all worked out well. We are not party politics here! Mr. Chairman. It's been four years. The SCP then warned in its essay about the intended Environment Act for the Matthew effect. Well, a politically reformed heart is going to beat a little faster. That's why I remember this essay. The SCP used part of this Matthew Gospel to point out a possible division between citizens who do not have the knowledge and opportunities to participate and those who do. The SCP quoted a Bible verse: "For whoever has it will be given it, and he will have it abundant; but whoever doesn't has it will be taken from him also that he has." That was quite a good thing about the SCP, and it touches on an important point that has also been exchanged again in this debate: is the new system for citizens and entrepreneurs to follow and yet manageable, and does it not lead to a division? My group, too, has some concerns on this point. Here, too, time will learn how this is going to work out. This also applies to the question of how the municipal councils will take up their role. And in this sense, this law also deals with the question of how much trust we essentially have in the local authorities. It's hard to give one uniform answer to that. Mistakes will also be made. We should not start to panic about that. Give the law some time, too. Mr. Chairman. In parts, this debate is also a repetition of moves, for example when it comes to the question of which standards should at least be included in the law. The Council of State has devoted one and more reflections to this and has critically reflected on the Environment Act. The SGP is also off that line. We must be cautious with such framework legislation. Thank you also for all kinds of commitments, including those towards all kinds of colleagues, including those on the independent evaluation committee. I'm still counting on a very brief reflection on that white paper by Professor Tonnaer on how to freeze zoning plans and how to deal with them. For the rest, is this legislation going to fly properly? That remains partly an assessment, an expectation. Monitoring is therefore very important. The SGP believes that we have now received enough information, including the Minister's clear, adequate response, to say "continue" responsibly to this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u366	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Verkerk on a party we all know. I grew up in the Randstad myself and lived there my whole life. I love staying with you for a while. Then I'll see what it's like elsewhere. That's the beauty of these maiden speeches: that you also get a little insight into how life goes on outside the Randstad. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. The officials have had as much work done on it as we have. You will not be surprised, Mr President, that I have heard the Minister's answers with a great deal of criticism from time to time. I will not advise my group to vote against it, because I do not think it is a matter for the group. I think it's a personal matter for each of us. That is why I find a roll-call vote appropriate. It is often said, and it has often been said in this file: you must not stop that law. That is what we are talking about, and I am looking at the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The First Chamber does not prevent a law; the First Chamber agrees to a law. We have an independent position in the constitutional system. And as the government needs the consent of the Lower House, so it also needs the consent of the Upper Chamber. And that agreement of the First Chamber is not, in my view, a political consideration of political groups either. It is for each of us personally that we should indeed use the list of criteria to be established as the First Chamber, submitted by the Registrar, as a criterion, and that we should make a personal assessment of them. That is why, Mr President, I am asking for a roll-call vote. I shall vote against it myself. I do not know what my group members are going to do, because it is their personal moral obligation to take a stand on this. If I say I'm against that law, why do I still have two motions here? That is because I am beginning to realize that some of the people who were originally very critical have changed a bit and are now going to vote for it at the last minute. I'm sorry about that, but I respect that. I would have liked to hear a better story from some people about what is behind it, but we should have done so. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the Minister's commitments. I heard Mrs Moonen say that this evaluation should also focus on legal protection and the way in which the administrative judge deals with the application of his powers of ruling. I waited a while to see if Mr Rietkerk would ask me about this, because Article 3:4 of the General Administrative Law Act was also a bit of an act. However, I would like to stress that I have understood in every case that the Minister has said that the evaluation of the way in which the administrative judge deals with it is also explicitly concerned with whether a more urgent review is necessary in order to ensure adequate legal protection. I took note of that when I began my discussion with the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Two other points that we have discussed have not worked out what I had hoped for. I shall therefore put to the vote a motion to that effect. The first motion concerns the declaration of conformity which the Council of State considered desirable. I'd like to hand it over to you. The President shall: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kluit and Mr Nooren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has recommended the inclusion in the Environment Act of a power to issue, on request, a declaration of conformity indicating that a construction plan complies with the legal rules if that plan is to be implemented in an area where there is no legal obligation to build with authorisation;]] [[Whereas the Government has indicated that the arrangements provided for by the Council of State are not necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider its assessment of this point in the opinion of the Council of State if, following the entry into force of the Environment Act, case law shows that the application for a building permit in such a case does not result in an appealable decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-Y]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u368	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to raise the issue of legal certainty, which requires that, if so many free powers and discretionary powers are allocated to administrative bodies, we reduce the guarantee of legal certainty. This is something we can do if we demand from these administrative bodies that when they develop policy and assessment criteria, they also explicitly include this in a policy rule within the meaning of the General Law on administrative law. That is so important, because Article 4:81 of the AWB also obliges us to apply that policy. So that actually gives the judge another opportunity to review which he does not have at the moment. On that point, too, I have a motion on offer. The President shall: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Kluit and Mr Nooren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the system of the Environment Act confers many powers on administrative bodies, giving them freedom of policy and assessment for the exercise of those powers;]] [[whereas environmental law under the Environment Act has many open standards and discretionary powers to administrative bodies, thereby undermining the legal certainty of citizens;]] [[Whereas both the principle of legal certainty and the principle of equality are served by administrative bodies laying down the assessment and policy criteria they apply in the exercise of discretionary powers in policy rules as referred to in the General Administrative Law;]] [[invites the Government to examine, at the latest six months after the entry into force of the Environmental Law, whether administrative bodies to which discretionary powers have been conferred have made use of the possibility to lay down their assessment and policy criteria in the policy rules referred to in the General Administrative Law and to promote the use of that option by those administrative bodies if the investigation shows that this was not the case, and to report to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-Z]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u369	Mr President, I am ready. I'm rounding up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u370	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u371	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the spokesmen for their congratulations and kind words to me. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer and for the pleasant way she has done it. How beautifully has she, in the terms of Baricco........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Our group would also like to thank the Minister very much for the various commitments, especially because she has made them generously, not only to us, but also to all the other groups. I'm gonna take a quick walk through them. With regard to legal protection, thank you for an independent evaluation. I would also like to thank you for the commitment that this evaluation should give explicit consideration to the possible deterioration of relevant constitutional notions. With regard to democratic control, thank you for the attention of the Minister for adequate training for councils and states, and for that in several elections. I also think it is very good that the Minister has promised to take two sensitive areas very seriously with regard to participation. This is about involving really all citizens. They're paying attention to that. I also mention the quality of the participatory process. Thank you also for the insight that the Minister has put forward here. As regards the commitment on participation and the implementation decision, this has already been discussed. That is what Mr Nooren has already said. Thank you also for your commitment to the DSO, namely that the regional teams will receive broad support and that they will also be supported for a sufficient period of time. You have indicated that you are paying attention to public culture. That's very nice. I would like to emphasise what other colleagues have said: this transition is so enormous, and the changes demanded from officials who have worked in one way for many years are so great that it will take years and perhaps more than ten years. It is easy to predict that the necessary goes wrong and that we should not shoot into the stress. If we have wonderful evaluations, we can talk about them in a policy way. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask you to allow me to look at what has happened in this debate from the point of view of connections. I have looked at the debate and the interruptions. At one point, there was a moment when I thought, "Hey, is this some sort of reckoning?" When I thought about it, I came to the conclusion that my judgment was far too shallow. There were connections, an expression of dependence: I need the other. And that's good. Mr President, I have discovered something else. The most important connection in the debate in the Upper Chamber is with the chairman. And when I say "you," I mean you and I expect an answer from you. If I contact a colleague with "you" because of a good connection, that results in chaos. You may not be "you," but you are "he" or "she" or "sir" or "ma'am." That's confusing, but that has everything to do with connections. Mr President, I understand you and you understand me, if you understand me. Do you understand me? I'm rounding up. I asked the Minister a question of conscience: does the Environment Act ultimately lead to a better environment that we pass on to our children and grandchildren? The Environment Act is a trial. I have listened with great pleasure to the expert report by the Minister on how she intends to deal with this process and how she intends to guide and support it. I can therefore wholeheartedly say that I will propose to the group that we vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u372	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u373	Mr. Chairman. If it ain't broke, don't fix it. That's what I said this morning in my first term about the miserable Environment Act. In the meantime, during the suspension this afternoon, some of our members visited the Council of State, where we also tried to endorse the above-mentioned GO approach with a number of people from the Council of State, and not the least, I might add. What exactly is the solution to this environmental law is still not clear after a day and a half of debate in this Chamber. What we have concluded today is that the existing legal protection in current administrative law is not matched if this Environmental Law is introduced. So that's a back door. This Environmental Law creates legal uncertainty for citizens, entrepreneurs, administration and justice. We shall therefore support Mr Nicolaï's motions on this point, which he has just tabled. In addition, the Environment Act also rigged yet another ambitious, megalomaniac ICT project by the government, which, according to the Minister, is delivered on time and within budget, as we also heard from all the other ICT public projects that later ran out of steam. This time it's different, the Minister guarantees us, but we get guarantee on this ICT project from the Minister to the door. Mr. Chairman. Nevertheless, our compliments to the Minister, who, as a talented salesman, has managed to win over a number of groups in this Chamber before and during this debate, with the result that this miserable law is now being passed by the First Chamber, against better knowledge. No one in the Netherlands will benefit from this, but for the minister the spoils are in. Congratulations! By the way, it is clear that GO will vote against the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u374	I'll take a look at the minister. Are you able to respond directly to the remaining questions from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u375	I'd like a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u376	Five minutes? Ten minutes. I'm suspending until 9:49.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u377	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u378	...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u379	I don't think your microphone is connected yet. The messenger comes in full gallop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u380	Self-reliance doesn't kill anyone. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for a constructive debate. That applies to almost all parties. Thanks for the change. I thought the word "connection" was the theme of the evening. I also found Mr Verkerk's statement 'I need the other' a very nice one as a kind of guide in the debate. I think it certainly is, when we're talking about the Environment Act. Thank you for that lovely theme of the evening. I have indeed made a number of commitments. If you have such a debate with each other and you see that there are points where a party, whatever party it is, affects an interest that we can serve even better by making a commitment to it, then I am inclined to do so. There's been a lot of them. I suggest that next week I include these commitments in a letter. Then you have them all, including in my terms. I think that's good for clarity. I will also mention it when I come up with more information, for example. You have indicated that you still want a lot of things, but rather not everything at once. In the letter, therefore, I will indicate how I see the structuring further. They also asked about the date of the veil around the recess. I can make you a procedural proposal. This means that you can then think again about the proper handling of the documents. With regard to the NOVI letter. I did say "this spring." As far as I'm concerned, June is summer. Then it's my own birthday and it's considered summer. My goal is February-March. I think it is only important to be able to take into account the possible coherence with nitrogen policy. That may mean some kind of fine-tuning of the timing, but then you have about my schedule. A lot of questions have been asked. There were still a few from the first term, which I will answer. I will try to end them as much as possible by group now. I hope I've taken note of everything. There's been a lot of answers, too. I'll tell you right away they're not in the right order. Apologies, they're not in the order of speakers. Mrs. Kluit was on top in this case. Mrs Kluit asked: would you remind the municipalities that it is their task to draw up EIAs? Yes, I will certainly take that up with my colleague from Infrastructure and Water State. Then Mrs Baay. The interested party, the user. Are both the administrative bodies and initiators interested? Yes. She also asked about the full year of practice. Since last December, the DSO has been ready to connect, fill and practice nationally. Therefore, one year is available to all parties, from 1 January 2020 to 1 January 2021. That comes on top of all the practice and testing, the 123 pieces I've reported to you about, which have preceded that in recent years. Ms Baay asked whether the review of principles of good governance only applies to permits covered by the Environmental Act. No. The requirement that a decision must comply with those principles that apply to all decisions under the Environmental Law and beyond follows from the General Administrative Law Act. She also asked if I could comment on the possibility of applying for a preliminary ruling on an environmental plan. The appeal period for an environmental plan remains just six weeks, as with the zoning plan. The Environment Act provides for the environmental plan to enter into force four weeks after its entry into force. There is therefore a possibility to apply for interim measures. Then Mrs. Kluit. If the Environment Act does not contribute to the realization of the large transitions, what is the emergency brake? The Environment Act is a living law. This also means that in the future there will be additions or changes if new tasks so require. The Environment Act provides a stable basis and a clear framework, but further development is always possible in the future. Thought and legislation are not stopped either. Mr Janssen asked whether the introduction law would not add additional complexity to the problems of nitrogen and PMAS. When solving the problems of nitrogen and pfas, it was also considered whether the transition to the Environmental Act would not cause any problems. For example, the E.R. approach already provides for the adaptation of the Environmental Act, so that, for example, with that law, the adaptation of the permit obligation will continue in the Environmental Act. This will continue the policy pursued within the system. Mrs. Bezaan asked for publications. I have indicated that Minister Knops is the one who is looking at that bill and has said that explicit attention is being paid to the fact that accessibility must be good. Mrs Klip also suggested informing the Chamber about the lessons learned from the Crisis and Recovery Act. It certainly makes sense to learn from that. I would like to send your Chamber an annual progress letter on the Crisis and Recovery Act in which I will address those lessons. I will also go into these lessons in the progress report on the reform of the system which I am sending in the middle of this year. Mr Nicolaï asked about the commitment that open standards should also be taken into account in the evaluation because of legal protection. He said: I understood him in such a way that the Minister said that we are also looking at whether more urgent scrutiny is needed to ensure legal protection. Is this true? Was his question. The answer is yes. That's what I said. Mr. Rietkerk asked if he had understood correctly that I promised that there would be an independent evaluation committee and that there would be an annual evaluation letter. The answer to both questions is yes. What about the connections? I will inform you again in June about the state of play with regard to connecting. Then we'll have to have numbers again. We make the connection planning with all the governments, and I will keep you informed of that. We will of course not be ready until everything is connected, but I will keep you informed about the planning. I'll make sure you have that planning when you deal with the entry into force of the CB. The planning is of course also important for the municipalities. Of course, they are partly about that connection, because they are working with those software providers. Can the next progress letter give a more realistic view towards the end of 2020? I'd be happy to say so. Then the timetable for setting up the independent committee. There will be an independent evaluation committee. This is one of the points on which I would like to propose that I provide you with further information in the coming months or in the middle of this year, so that you know how we thought we would set it up. Is the Empire also responsible for participating in its own instruments? Yeah, sure. I agree with you, Mr. Rietkerk. The Empire also provides for this, for example in the case of the NOVI, and a participation process has certainly been set up in the drafting of this law and the AMvBs. Ms Nooren asked to reverse the role of the city council in the involvement in outdoor activities. On the one hand, you can say that we have expanded the possibilities. On the other hand, this means that the municipality simply has to make a choice: what do we want and what do we not want? We haven't contained it by that provision anymore. The downside of it is that the municipality must now indicate what it wants and what it does not want. A total reversal would no longer be possible. How does the Minister actually arrange for the City Council to define participation policies? A motion has been tabled on this subject and I have made a few suggestions to Mrs Nooren. Should that motion be changed along those lines, the motion of my judgment could have Chamber. It is perhaps important to hear from Mrs Nooren whether the motion is still being amended. What happens to legal protection if there is a waiting period for the assignment of, for example, a pro-Deo attorney, which may result in an appeal being filed too late? That is a question that Mrs Nooren asked in the context of legal protection. The principle is that administrative law does not have mandatory legal aid, but I do understand the point made by Mrs Nooren. Fortunately, for what she is suggesting, it is also a provision. There is always the possibility of submitting a pro-forma appeal, a non-content appeal, which is precisely intended to save the deadline. The citizen does not encounter a problem of admissibility in the courts, and then has the opportunity to justify his appeal in substance. And if necessary, he can also use legal aid for this purpose. Then there's the extra cost of justice. There is indeed additional money for a possible temporary additional workload. We talked about that. In 2020, €600,000 will be devoted to training judges. And for the years after that, 2021 and 2022, there is an additional 1.7 million per year available to deal with additional cases. That assessment was made on the basis of the number of cases. I believe it has even been calculated on a case-by-case basis, so if there were more cases, it could be even more money. Based on the monitoring of the case law surrounding the Environment Act in the years 2021 and 2022, I will review with my colleague for Legal Protection whether extra money would be needed for the period from 2023 to 2025. It is left to the Council to decide how that money is to be spent. This is also done at the request of the Council. One can, of course, best estimate what one needs. This will also depend on developments in the case law. Much investment is being made in training, for example by the Stichting Studiecentrum Voorzorging, in which officials of the Ministry are involved. I have just indicated that the Administrative Court section of the Council of State is also about to start training staff and state councils. I have just indicated that extra money has been made available, just for training. Mr Janssen had another question about the updating of the licence, which is enforceable by the competent authority. He asked if that doesn't depend on the revision license. I can confirm that the updating of the licence is actually enforceable by the competent authority. If the competent authority considers that the licence is no longer up-to-date, the competent authority shall automatically amend the licence. The modified permit then prescribes the new techniques. By "office," I mean that there is no need for an application from the company. The competent authority shall decide independently to amend the licence. This is covered by article 5.39 of the Environment Act. The competent authority often combines the modification of the licence with the power to combine a stack of single permits into a single clear permit, the automatic revision permit. You can combine that, but you don't have to. Mr Van Dijk has asked me to reflect on Mr Tonnaer's white paper on the right of transition for environmental plans. That white paper does go into that. Upon entry into force there is an environmental plan of its own right. Municipalities will be able to convert this into a full environmental plan in the period up to 2029. Tonnaer makes the suggestion to make it possible for the old rules to be changed without having to comply with the new law. This leads to a lot of transitional legislation issues. That's why we didn't choose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u381	I give the floor to Mr Janssen to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u382	I shall, of course, come back to the previous point on the revision permit. My point is precisely the burden of proof. The burden of proof lies with the competent authority when imposing that licence on its own initiative. This must prove that the best available techniques can be introduced into the company. That is the problem I was talking about in the first period. This evidence often encounters problems with trade secrets, which means that the company does not want to provide all the information. And it is then up to the competent authority to demonstrate, deep down in the company's business processes, that these best available techniques can be applied. But we are looking for a reversal of the burden of proof, where BAT should be the norm. This is also highly desirable from the point of view of the environment. The plant must then demonstrate why BAT is not applicable to that plant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u383	I thought I understood from your question that you considered that there had been a change in this system at the time of the transition to the Environment Act. That's not true. It has remained the same, but the problem of the burden of proof has not yet been resolved. There will be a review of environmental law to see if it is still entirely in line with the issues of today's day. I would like to say to Mr Janssen that I will look in particular at this point. When we report on this, I will take this point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u384	Just a little more time. Can the Minister give a deadline for that evaluation, sometime in spring, autumn or in any year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u385	No, I really don't have the guts to do that. I've only been around for a while. I'd like to do it within my term. I'm afraid to say that specifically. This is also the result of the new environmental vision that I am working on. But we will make sure that this is one of the points that is being looked at. Don't make me promise things I can't live up to. Let me be careful with that. Mrs Moonen asked about the disadvantage compensation for mining activities. I understand that it refers to the situation where housing in the vicinity of mining activities is falling in value and that it is asking whether or not it is legally contingent upon mining and whether or not an exception can be made. This type of damage is eligible for further compensation under the Environmental Act, but under the same conditions. I don't have any information on exceptions. Then there is the question: what should be insightful in the progress KB? That must be progress on legislation, the five criteria for entry into force. The legislation states that the proposals for the introduction law and the supplementary laws have been accepted by the parliament and that there is a view that the implementing regulation will be ready in time. Five criteria have been established with the administrative partners. I will only refer to the draft KB if it is sufficiently clear that we are meeting these criteria. This concerns the established environmental visions, established environmental regulation when the project decision is implemented and adopted on the basis of the requirements of the Environmental Act. The municipality must be able to change the environmental plan in accordance with the Environment Act and be ready for permits and notifications etc. Well, all year round, we're working on meeting these criteria. I'll keep you informed. Let's see; I've already said all kinds of other things about that. Then I come to a number of motions that have been tabled. Once again, with regard to the motion of the Labour Party, I had a technical point to which I have already informed them. I understand there's another reaction to that. Two motions have then been tabled by Mr Nicolaï. One motion states: The Chamber, after hearing the debate, asks the Government, if it appears that the application for authorisation of an activity for which authorisation is not required does not result in an appealable decision, to include a declaration of conformity in the legal system. Absolute certainty as to whether an activity requires a permit can be obtained under current law by applying for a permit. The submission of an application shall in such a case lead to an appealable decision. For the sake of clarity, this is a fixed line of the Administrative Court Division of the Council of State. Following a comment by Mr Nicolaï, this is a section other than the Advisory Section of the Council of State. Indeed, that section suggested that the possibility of making an application in the form of a declaration of conformity should be clarified. It is not necessary, but if it turns out that case law is changing, I am prepared to carry out this motion. That's why I'm leaving her to the Court's judgment. The motion on letter Z calls on the government to establish a margin of discretion in the application of policies. The element "promoting" is really too compelling towards administrative bodies. This means that I have to come up with concrete proposals before I have been able to talk to your Chamber about the results of the investigation. The six-month period is really too short. I can certainly take this point into account in the evaluation. We evaluate a lot of points with each other, but I advise against the motion in this form. Mr President, I hope that will bring me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u386	Thank you, Minister. Then there is another question from Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u387	There is another question about the DSO as a rural facility. Its management at strategic, tactical and operational level lies with the three different national parties, while local authorities use it. According to our information, the new Electronic Publications Act puts it on the board of the local authorities when there is mutilation of data, malfunctions and you name the whole thing, while they do not have any influence on management. The Minister said that backups are being made and so on, but I'm sure that's not a full guarantee. The question is, therefore, whether agreements have been made between the Empire and the local authorities in order to protect the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u388	That's in the management arrangement. This has been discussed. Yes. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u389	Thank you. We've come to the end of the second term. I understand that Mrs Nooren wishes to amend her motion under letter X as a result of the Minister's reply. Is that right, Mrs. Nooren? That's right. We have to do that in a short third term. Can the Chamber agree to that? Yes, that's the case. Then I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion is being amended because we asked for something which was not technically feasible, but which was desirable in substance. In the end, we want all municipal councils, all provincial states and all water boards to make good agreements on participation before the Environmental Act comes into force. That's why we modified the motion. We ask that the motion be put to the vote before the law is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u391	Thank you, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u392	The motion-Nooren c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proper shaping of participation is an essential part of the Environment Act;]] [[Whereas it is important for both residents and promoters to understand the requirements of local authorities for participation;]] [[noting that the government has not yet given any guidance on the requirements for participation;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Implementing Decree of the Environment Act a scheme to ensure that municipalities, provinces and water boards are required to establish a participatory policy setting out how participation is organised and what requirements apply and to establish this participation policy by municipal, provincial and general government authorities, respectively, and to promote that co-governments start with it as soon as possible, preferably before the entry into force of the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Nooren, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Kluit, Mr Crone and Mr Verkerk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34986-AA]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u393	The question of D66 is: where does this motion strike? Will it be part of the royal decree? Will it be part of the implementation decision? What's this gonna be a part of? So this is a question for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u394	The motion states that it will be included in the adoption decision. I don't have the text right now, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u395	He's already...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u396	He's gone!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u397	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u398	The introduction decision sets out a mandate to draw up a participatory policy. That's what the adoption decision says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u399	Thank you. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u400	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in a third term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for a third-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u401	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to confirm that I think this element is one of the valuable results of a debate that I think we have had very much with each other. This has been done with care and attention especially for those who are less easily self-involved in the Environment Act. I think that we have again underlined the importance of working together with the local authorities. So I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u402	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-28-eerstekamer-6.u403	I'm here to deal with the bill. Mr Nicolaï wanted a roll-call vote on this bill. Then I propose that we vote by roll call next week on this bill. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case. Finally, I propose that we vote next week on the motions that have been tabled. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case.
