ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the Foreign Affairs Council (VAO). I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and, of course, the spokesmen. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the horrific murder of George Floyd in the United States by police violence, worldwide, starting in the US, but also in Europe and in our country, thousands of people, often young people, have stood up for equality and against racism, because every human being, regardless of colour, black and white, is entitled to a dignified existence. The sad thing is that the President of the United States in the United States rather than embracing them and tackling racism is really just throwing oil on the fire and criminalising them. I do not only think that we in our country are fortunate enough to force the demonstrators to take action here in Parliament to eradicate racism, discrimination and exclusion, but also to appeal to our allies in such cases. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that protests in the US against racism and police violence in connection with the murder of George Floyd have arrested more than 10,000, including many peaceful protesters;]] [[noting that police-led violence against journalists has been used in these demonstrations and that freedom of the press has been violated in hundreds of cases;]] [[Considering that human rights organisations report unnecessary and excessive violence against demonstrators;]] [[noting that the US President threatened to use the army against its own people;]] [[Whereas human rights are universal and a cornerstone of Dutch foreign policy;]] [[Whereas attacks on journalists are also attacks on democracy;]] [[calls on the US Administration to contact the US Government to reject these practices and to call for maximum restraint by US authorities to ensure that fundamental freedoms are respected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Ploumen and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. Mr Van Ojik has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the EU Foreign Ministers have the opportunity to speak with their American counterpart Pompeo. Just between allies, this is an opportunity to be open and honest about what you don't like. It is about the foreign policy of the United States, the withdrawal from the WTO, the withdrawal of the INF Convention, the withdrawal from the nuclear deal and from the Climate Agreement, the withdrawal of the Open Skies Treaty, but also about what is happening in the country itself. Contrary to what the Minister explained yesterday, I do not think that criticism should be avoided if there is a lively democracy and a functioning rule of law in the country in question. On the contrary, I believe that when fundamental values are at stake, you should appeal to each other at any time and anywhere. That is why I hope that the discussion with Pompeo will also be about excessive police violence, about a president who is setting up groups against each other instead of reconciling them and about institutional racism in the United States, but also in the Netherlands and elsewhere in Europe. Finally, I co-signed Mrs Karabulut's motion and I also signed a motion that Mrs Ploumen will be tabling shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Madam President. It was an interesting general discussion, in which we talked about the Foreign Affairs Council in which the European Foreign Ministers will discuss important things about the situation in China and how we stand on that and also about the major human rights violations in China. We also discussed the forthcoming discussion with Secretary of State Pompeo of the United States and the possibility that our minister or someone on behalf of the Netherlands will ask a question there. We have also talked about this and I had another question to the Minister about the persecuted Christians and the special envoy for freedom of religion and belief in Europe. Ján Figel's mandate has not been renewed and no new one has yet been appointed. The Minister said: I am making myself strong for that, but I do not yet have enough countries that agree with me. Can the Minister indicate what assistance he still needs from the Lower House and from several parliaments in Europe? Or should we be with the Prime Minister to strengthen this? What else could we do? What help can we offer him? The United States, a country with which we celebrated liberation this year, was the great ally that liberated us 75 years ago. We have said: then we must also seize this opportunity to express our concern, including about the situation in the United States and racism in the world, in Europe and also in the United States. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the tragic death of George Floyd and the appalling reactions to this in both the US and Europe;]] [[calls on the Government, in the forthcoming discussion of European Foreign Ministers with US Secretary Pompeo, to share with the US Government the European reactions and to examine together how the EU and the US can fight against racism and discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Helvert and Koopmans. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u7	A brief question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u8	What European reactions and what if the Minister is not mentioned and/or this subject is not discussed during the IPS? Do you share our view that we, the Minister, should in any case contact us on behalf of our country on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u9	We say this because we now have a chance to say something to the Secretary of State, Mr Pompeo. We're assuming that the message can be transmitted. We also know that the Minister can't do everything. Let us first look at this meeting and, if it did not succeed, then see what steps we are taking. The questions we have through the Minister also apply to all of you. We don't know what's going to be discussed yet, but let's not ask the question as-dan. Let's wait and see what good things our minister or someone will do on behalf of our minister. Then we can determine a follow-up step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u10	So the CDA Group does not intend to speak now, or does it not wish to say at this time that the Minister should in any case contact the US authorities on this serious matter? You do refer in your motion to the need for the Minister to convey the European reactions. What are the reactions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u11	In my view, the reactions we have discussed in general terms, and you were also there in regard to the fact that we are all shocked by the situation in the United States. In general, and that was my first reaction to the protest in Amsterdam, for example, the first reaction was: what a pity that there still has to be such a protest, that there is racism, that we put each other down because of the colour of our skin or origin, pushing each other down in an angle. The fact that there is is actually the worst. Anything that comes with it is bad, but less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you. You may take the motion and give it to the clerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u13	Oh, I can give it to the clerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you. Mr Sjoerdsma has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the lunch meeting with Secretary of State Pompeo will be one of the most important topics for discussion at the forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council. There is still something to discuss when you look at how the alliance between the United States and other Western alliances, such as the European Union, risks falling apart in terms of climate, security, human rights and the economy, but also in terms of values. We've all seen the footage of George Floyd lying on the street with a politician on his neck, and the cops watching him choke. We have all seen what happened in the United States after that. What is true of me is actually an adage of former CDA Minister Verhagen, who said: human rights apply to everyone, always and everywhere. The core of this is that you can only be credible if you are willing to look in the mirror yourself, for example in the area of racism or in the area of our own colonial past and Indonesia, and if you are also willing to address not only the usual suspects, Russia, China, but also countries such as Libya and Syria, where terrible things happen, but also your allies. That makes you credible and consistent. My appeal to this Minister, who is also made in the various motions, is to make sure that Pompeo and the United States know that the attitude of the President of the United States, when it comes to protecting peaceful demonstrators, but also when it comes to protecting the free press in the United States, does not fit in with the treaties we have signed together, does not match the UN Charter and does not match the values of our alliance and that we ask him to do so in a different way, but not in this way. Those peaceful protesters are defending and defending the journalists, because the incidents, involving more than 150 journalists alone, are now taking place under a president who has made the media an enemy: active, conscious, damaging and very dangerous. I believe that we, the Netherlands, can make our sound very clear there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Mrs Ploumen has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. I agree with what Mr Sjoerdsma said. I would like to thank the Minister for the debate yesterday. We also talked about the Universal Periodic Review. Every once in a while, a country is being examined. The Netherlands is also being examined, and this year the United States is next. I would very much like the government, during the forthcoming review, to question the United States about the developments that Mr Sjoerdsma, Mrs Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and others talked about. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) of the UN Human Rights Council provides the opportunity to review the human rights situation of individual Member States;]] [[having noted that developments in the field of human rights in the United States are taking place during the next cycle of the UPR;]] [[Whereas the death of George Floyd and subsequent protests have once again demonstrated that the US is suffering from institutional racism, cross-border police violence and intimidation of journalists;]] [[calls on the government to ask the US about these worrying developments and to make recommendations to improve the US human rights situation during the forthcoming UPR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-2173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are looking at someone else also means that we wanted to show ourselves a mirror. It is important to add that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I'm looking around, but I see there are no more speakers. Then we'll wait for the motions filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u20	I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three motions and a number of questions. The common thread in the Chamber's contribution now, just like yesterday, is the terrible way in which George Floyd died. Those images stay with the Chamber, me, everyone. This morning it was supplemented by impressive images of the funeral and the speeches that were held there. As I pointed out yesterday in the debate, there is no doubt that I will raise the issue at the Foreign Affairs Council: the great importance of the right of free demonstration, the security of journalists, the prosecution of police officers using excessive force and the task for all of us to fight against discrimination and racism. I have also outlined to the Chamber that it is not yet known exactly who can speak in what way during the video conference with Minister Pompeo. But in any case, I will speak at the Foreign Affairs Council and raise the matter there. In this context, Mrs Karabulut has tabled the motion on item No. 2171 which calls on the US Administration to contact the US Government to reject these practices and to call for maximum restraint by the US authorities to ensure that fundamental freedoms are respected. I have indicated that the agents involved in George Floyd's death are now fortunately in the hands of the judge and that it does not suit me....................................................................................................................................................... I know the images of violence towards protestors and journalists. The latter is not just happening in the United States, I fear. I always disapprove of violence against journalists. This also applies to violence against peaceful demonstrators. But here, too, I note that in the United States, the courtroom is open. Against this background, I do not think it is logical to ask for rejection in this motion now, because I assume that the right will run in the United States and in other countries where it is necessary in connection with the use of force. So I'm dissuading Mrs. Karabulut's motion. Mr Van Ojik co-signed this motion. I come to Mr Van Helvert, but I see Mrs Karabulut at the interrupting microphone. I think she has a question about her own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u22	Of course, this isn't about whether or not the judge can do his or her job. This isn't about the rule of law. This is about political action, repressive action and the authoritarian features of the American system. I do not think I need to tell the Minister that it is not only racist statements by President Trump, but also targeted attacks are being carried out on journalists. And if not now, when? Is our Foreign Minister's attitude 'an attack on journalists is an attack on democracy'..................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mrs Karabulut talks about the authoritarian features of the American system. That says a lot about more than 200 million Americans. There's a democratically elected president who says things you can or can't agree with. There's also, at least at the moment, one counter-candidate who contradicts that president. When Mrs Karabulut says that the American system has authoritarian features, it immediately raises the question whether this applies to all presidential candidates. In any case, the Dutch Government will not judge presidential candidates in a democracy. There are extensive protests in the United States and there are political debates, so I think the qualification 'the American political system' is quite something. At least it's not mine. I see a system with checks-and-balances. I see a country in which things are happening that cause me great concern, but that is a country that is also a rule of law and actually has an older democratic tradition than the Netherlands. And then to say: the American system shows some traits... I think that's quite something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u24	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u25	That says something more about the Minister than about my statements. If the Minister has followed the developments and also the actions of President Trump, a not insignificant figure in the system, he should not be so surprised. But above all, it is a way of not saying out loud that there is no political will to stand up clearly for journalists when it comes to the United States and to speak out clearly against repression and the possible use of the army against its own civilian population. That's too bad. That makes the Minister's statement that an attack on journalists is an attack on democracy unbelievable. And it gives him less right to speak when it comes to other authoritarian leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u26	We had this debate yesterday. At that time I pointed out that I had a question from the Chamber, from Mrs Karabulut and others about police violence during demonstrations in democratic constitutional states...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u27	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u28	... for example in France and Spain. Along the same lines as I do now when it comes to the United States, I argued that these are countries that we recognise as well-functioning democracies and states of law, which differ in parts in terms of legislation and traditions, and that in those cases too, the reaction of the government has been 'let the law run its course', as other countries would do to us in terms of police violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u29	Continue
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr Van Helvert, together with Mr Koopmans, has tabled a motion calling on the government to share with the US Secretary of State in the forthcoming discussion the European reactions and to examine together how we can fight against racism and discrimination. I have indicated to the Chamber that I will raise it in any case. So I would like to leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Mr Van Helvert also asked me what more can be done for the Religious Envoy. I am trying to gather sufficient support from fellow ministers for this. I know that the Chamber is in regular contact with other parliaments. This has worked well, for example, in the joint commitment to the human rights sanctions regime. It is not for me to ask the Chamber for anything or to give an order, but if the Chamber sees that opportunity, it will of course help. Then Mr Sjoerdsma. Yes, the Netherlands stands for the freedom of the press, always and everywhere, and will therefore also ask all countries to guarantee it internally. Following the discussion we had yesterday, Mrs Ploumen tabled a motion on item No. 2173, with a view to the periodic review in the Human Rights Council. I indicated yesterday that that state was in November. A lot of things can happen between now and November, good and less good. So I would really ask Mrs Ploumen to hold this motion because there is no reason to make a final judgment on it now, but it is also wiser to do so closer to November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u31	Look, even if the sky breaks open above the United States towards November, that still doesn't reverse what has happened over the last few weeks. And that is actually what this motion is asking for. It calls for these events, as well as the events that are coming next and which are indeed hopefully positive, to be included in that review. For once again, it cannot be that this is not addressed in the comments that the Netherlands has and not in the recommendations that the Netherlands will make together with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u32	But then we will know more about both the legal response and the political response in the United States. I therefore find it really purer to judge the motion at that time. Then I am also open... I am always open to debate with the Chamber, but then we know more than we are now. So right now, I'm deceiving the motion because I think it's really premature. Just before November, I would like to start the debate with you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u33	We will know immediately where this cabinet stands when it comes to the defence of human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u34	Well, that's a very short cutter. Mr President, I have therefore provided an opinion on all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-8.u36	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow at the beginning of the afternoon. I thank the Minister and the Members of Parliament and suspend the sitting for a few moments.
