ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the joint discussion of legislative proposals 35245, Amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and the Act on Supervision of Trust Offices 2018 in connection with the implementation of Directive (EU) 2018/843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 amending Directive (EU) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, and amending Directives 2009/138/EC and 2013/36/EU (Implementation Act amending Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive) and 35238, Amendment of the Financial Supervision Act relating to the automated unlocking of identifying data via a central electronic system as well as some other data by banks and other payment service providers (law reference portal banking data). I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber. I repeat that the fixed interrupt microphones, which are operated by hand, have been replaced by a microphone that can be operated by the foot. I also inform Members that, in the event of a motion being tabled, you should read the text yourself and then put this motion on the bench to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are having this debate today. The European Banking Authority has recently called on financial institutions to be extra alert to money laundering in times of the corona crisis. Follow the Money is increasingly on the news. By this I mean the journalist collective that discovers scandals over and over again and thereby achieves great social impact. Tracking money flows is not only effective as a way of working for journalists. It is also an effective tool for combating the undermining activities of criminal and terrorist organisations. Unusual transactions can be suspicious transactions. Criminal and terrorist networks and organisations have always proven to be resourceful in the abuse of the financial system. Misuse of the financial system by these groups must be prevented, traced and punished with exclusion from the system and persecution. There is therefore no room and time for a lax attitude on the part of directors of banks and financial institutions. The current implementing legislation extends the scope of the Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. Before I come to specific parts of the present legislative proposals, I have a general question. How does the Minister assess, also in the light of the experience of recent years, the effectiveness, focus and effectiveness of the gatekeeper function of financial institutions in the Netherlands at the moment? A second general point I want to make is the relationship between tax avoidance or tax evasion and money laundering. By letterbox companies, real estate and shady constructions, there is a large overlap between capital flows that launder and capital flows that avoid tax. Dutch letterbox companies are still the spider in the web of tax avoidance. That's a thorn in the eye of GroenLinks. Recent research shows that European countries miss 10 billion euros in tax revenues because of the Netherlands. Especially in these times, where European solidarity is particularly important, tax avoidance through the Netherlands must be stopped. My group is also curious about the state of play of the investigation into the relationship between money laundering and tax avoidance, as requested in the Snels/Groothuizen motion in the Lower House, when dealing with these legislative proposals. Can the Minister lift a tip of the veil and indicate where we stand? When does the Minister expect to present the results of this investigation? Would the Minister also like to send the results of that investigation to the First Chamber? Mr. Chairman. On 30 May 2018, Directive 2018/843 was adopted, which amends the fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive of 2015. The present legislative proposals aim to implement part of this Directive. Many questions have already been answered by the Minister in the preparatory work, for which we thank him. In my contribution today, I will focus on the following three points: the effectiveness of the intended registration systems for virtual currency service providers; the effectiveness of supervision and detection; and the enforcement of the rules of the Banking Data Reference Portal. Virtual currencies are accompanied by a high degree of anonymity and flexibility. This, of course, makes these currencies ideal for criminals and terrorist organisations and networks, to channel money into the financial system of EU countries. Therefore, providers of virtual currency services, such as exchange services, are crucial for facilitating and accommodating access to the financial system. It is therefore important that these providers should also be covered by the Wwft Act. They must register and be subject to the supervision of DNB. Materially they have to do customer research, monitor transactions and report unusual transactions. And here comes our first concern. In the original bill, the government wanted to introduce a licensing system. After consulting the Council of State, it became a registration system. The Minister writes in response to the questions raised by this Chamber that this registration system will provide a more limited test for the admission of suppliers to the market, compared to what would have been possible in a licensing system. Can the Minister state what risk analysis he has carried out when releasing the original design of a licensing system, after consulting the Council of State? How did the Minister try to mitigate these risks? The Directive aims at minimum harmonisation by all EU Member States of legislation on money laundering and terrorist financing. However, unlike the Netherlands, several EU countries go beyond the minimum level of implementation of the directive, for example by integrating the standards for virtual currencies of the so-called Financial Action Task Force, the FATF. Can the Minister confirm that, among others, Germany, Ireland and Luxembourg have integrated these standards into their legislation? Can the Minister indicate which other countries have done this? I have the following point to make. The directive was adopted almost two years ago. Technological developments in the virtual currency sector are going very fast; two years is very long in that sector. Why hasn't the Minister chosen to integrate the FATF standards into this legislation? Especially after the idea of licensing these providers had been abandoned, my group believes that it was obvious to make the law more robust in a different way. In the fight against criminal and terrorist networks, our government seems to be following the facts over and over again. The sums laundered by Dutch financial institutions run in billions. This legislation also threatens the risk of 'too little, too late'. I'd like a response from the Minister. And now that the standards of the FATF have not been included in the current legislation, the question is: when can we expect additional legislation in this area? Mr. Chairman. The second point is the effectiveness of surveillance and detection. Of course, the so-called system banks are supervised by the ECB, but there is a line between the ECB and DNB. Let me put my question in general: what is the involvement of DNB in the supervision of the institutions that are supervised by the ECB? And will there be an additional role for DNB with the reduction of the reporting limit of unusual transactions, and consequently the increase in notifications by large banks? The Dutch competent authorities are responsible for investigating and detecting suspicious transactions. DNB has a limited possibility of checking upon entry into the market of virtual currency providers, as I said. How will effective supervision be possible and organised after admission? Specifically with regard to an effective supervision by DNB of these providers, our view is that besides capacity, i.e. FTEs, specific knowledge is also of great importance. Despite the fact that there is a registration system and not a licence requirement, should these institutions still comply with their legal obligations and their gatekeeper function? How is DNB prepared for this task? The same question applies to investigation services. The number of reports of unusual transactions is expected to increase enormously. Can the Minister reflect on how the effectiveness of the investigation services can be increased? What is the Minister's picture of the situation in other EU countries? I'd like a reflection. We have a third concern with regard to the enforcement of the rules of the Reference Portal Bank data. The referral portal establishes a central digital system for the exchange of identifying bank data. The Council of State states that the power to provide data is not altered, but that the threshold for the provision of data is nevertheless reduced. To this end, a number of additional safeguards have been introduced into the law. The question is not only whether this is sufficient, but also how these guarantees are maintained. How will the Minister monitor the provision of data and how will the Minister strengthen these safeguards if they prove insufficient? Finally. Criminal and terrorist organisations and networks have no national borders and are highly organised internationally. The money from the underworld that is channelled to the upper world by using the financial system is undermining for the whole of society. GroenLinks strongly supports the European approach to the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. We hope that in future tax avoidance will also be tackled at European level. I'd like to await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Van Strien on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. If a member of the First Chamber is given a legislative dossier on a subject he or she does not know about, then there is a certain type of question that can always be asked. Does the government have the perspective of the people who have to implement the law involved in the drafting of the law? Has any consideration been given to the problems that the performers predict? The answer to these questions, which must of course be given some context, is usually surprising. In preparing the legislation very little attention is paid to the problems of implementation and almost never do the people who have to solve these problems in practice speak in the documents themselves. This was a literal quote from the report entitled Towards a visible, effective interaction between policy and implementation, of the Permanent Committee for the Interior and the High Colleges of State of the Upper Chamber of 2007. It is noted that the primary purpose of the Eerste Kamer's review is to identify possible risk of impairment and introduction costs for the public authorities, but not to answer the question whether a proposed law does lead to the socially desired effects. A few months ago, we saw the mess at the IRS that illustrates this. But the two laws that we are dealing with today are also exemplary examples of laws that have not at all been considered as leading to the intended purpose. This also applied in the summer of 2018 to the Law on Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, when we passed that law in the Upper Chamber. Well, the PVV Group didn't, of course, but the rest of the Chamber did. The aim of this amended Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive and its implementation in Dutch law would be to prevent the financial system from being used for money laundering or terrorist financing. The fact that these laws are not at all considered as leading to the intended purpose is not something I am thinking of myself; this is clear not only to the PVV, but also to the Minister. The Minister himself writes this in the explanatory statement. I quote from the answer to one of our questions. "The D.A. does not record the type of information that led to a criminal case. Therefore, the suspicious transaction is not explicitly mentioned as such in the evidence sheet in the criminal record. The above implies that the suspicious transactions make an important contribution to the arrests and prosecution of suspects of crimes." The latter is completely out of the blue, let me say, because it does not follow anything at all. I'll continue with the quote. "It is not possible to indicate the number of suspicious transactions involving the arrest or prosecution of drug traffickers, money launderers and terrorists, and how many politically prominent persons, i.e. PPPs or PEPs were among them." In short, there is not the slightest view of the effectiveness of this law. However, the financial sector has reportedly attracted a recording device of about 6,000 employees to meet the requirements of the law in force. The Minister doesn't know how much we need to add to that now, but he may not think that is so important. For the Minister, it is particularly important that he has complied with a European directive. You will not be surprised, Mr President, that the last argument for the PVV Group does not play any role. As we know, we do not have much with Brussels. We are only looking at the objective and effectiveness of these laws, and we are seriously questioning them. I therefore invite the Minister to demonstrate with hard figures on the basis of the current law that things would be different. These laws constantly call "money laundering" and "terrorism" in one breath. In the reply and the further reply, the word "terrorism" is referred to as a total of 40 times. It is unclear why, because the fight against terrorism has nothing to do with this law. Money laundering is a criminal act. The goal is to use criminally obtained money in the upper world. Financing terrorism is, in fact, independent of this. Terrorism comes mainly from religious fanaticism, and can be financed with white and black money. In fact, it happens mainly with black money, namely oil money. If anything has emerged from the recent parliamentary investigation into the unwanted influence of mosques, it is that this was mainly about millions of euros flowing from Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia to Dutch salafistic and ultra-orthodox mosques. This law doesn't change that at all. And if there is one effective means against terrorism, it is: close borders. They stop not only the Wuhan virus, but also terrorism. And they turn out to be close, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mrs Sent from the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Researchers at Utrecht University estimate that the amount of money laundering in the Netherlands is around 16 billion euros per year. 90% of that money comes from drug trafficking and fraud. Of this EUR 16 billion, 9.1 billion comes from abroad. The PvdA considers these money laundering practices unacceptable. It's bad for tax morals and it's parasitating on the state treasury. We want to make sure that companies and wealthy people make a fair contribution to our society. At the same time, my group is aware that the approach to money laundering is not easy. The Dutch anti-money laundering policy is based on the 40 recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force and on EU legislation that obliges the Netherlands to conduct risk-oriented policies against money laundering. The present Implementation Act amending the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive is an example of this EU regulation. The present Banking Reference Portal Act partly results from this. That's why I'll start with the first one. Mr. Chairman. The Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive requires minimum harmonisation. Member States are then allowed to impose stricter requirements than those laid down in the Directive. In the Netherlands, it has been decided to limit the implementation of the Directive to the provisions of the Directive. This choice surprises the PvdA, just as the spokesperson of GroenLinks surprised. After all, the FATF standards impose more stringent requirements than the directive. Some Member States have taken these further requirements equally into account in the implementation of the Directive. Our question to the Minister is how these further demands will be taken into account in the Netherlands. Investing the gatekeeper function in banks, other financial corporations and various professionals is seen by the government as the most effective way of preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. These institutions are therefore ideally able to investigate their customers and assess when a transaction should be reported as unusual, as stated in the reply. Reports from banks, accountants and tax advisors end up with the Financial Intelligence Unit, which filters out the really suspicious transactions. They then end up with the Public Prosecutor's Office or the Tax Intelligence and Investigation Service. However, because of underemployment, these public authorities fail and only a fraction of the reports are further investigated or prosecuted, according to the Dutch Order of Tax Advisors and the Register of Tax Advisors. This criticism has also been voiced from the banks. Where many banks are now using thousands of people to check for suspicious transactions, there are far fewer people at the DA's office and the FIOD for this. Does the Minister share the criticism that the government itself is failing in the fight against money laundering? If so, what adjustments can we expect from him? In addition, De Nederlandsche Bank concludes from its own research that several banks are doing far too little research into who their customers are. The mandatory investigations that banks have to carry out into customer transactions are also flawed with several banks, the supervisor said. According to the Minister, DNB will ensure that efforts are such that banks adequately manage integrity risks. The Minister will continue to discuss the progress made by the sector with DNB. I would like my group from the Minister to have a detailed view of these progress. What investments have been made in expertise and new technologies? How has the right climate been created for the management of integrity risks? Have bank directors personally committed themselves to preventing banks from being involved in financial and economic crime? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the Wet referral portal bank details. The referral portal simplifies data provision. That can count on the support of the PvdA. This law implements the obligation for each Member State of the European Union to provide a central electronic system to identify clients of banks and other payment service providers. This obligation stems from the amended Fourth European Anti-Money Laundering Directive, as previously reported. The Tax Administration is going to use the Reference Portal Bank data for multiple processes. The note following the report in the Lower House states that the Tax Administration will submit about 700,000 to 900,000 requests for the verification of bank account numbers in connection with making payments. In the light of the child care allowance affair, I would like to hear how the Tax Administration will avoid unjustified accusations. I would also like to ask the Minister to what extent the ICT infrastructure of the Tax Administration is prepared for this. For many years, ICT projects have been in a bad light for the government. Many projects fail and there is a great deal of fuss about huge overruns of time and budget. I assume the Minister does not consider this to be the case with the Banking Data Reference Portal. But he still has to convince the PvdA of that. Mr. Chairman. In the debate in the House of Representatives, the major overlap between money laundering and tax avoidance was discussed in detail. It has been found that, while the approach to money laundering is primarily European, the approach to tax avoidance has been invested at national level. Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks referred to this too. An approved motion called on the Minister to investigate the extent of this overlap between money laundering flows and capital flows where tax avoidance takes place. Like Mrs Karimi, I would like to ask the Minister to inform us as an intermediary on the preliminary findings of this investigation. Can the Minister confirm that the approach to tax avoidance, as well as the approach to money laundering, should be harmonised? I would also like to draw attention, on behalf of the PvdA, to the relationship between money laundering and undermining. The latter needs a firm approach at local level. For example, in the fight against undermining crime, municipalities want to be able to share more sensitive personal information in order to combat the interrelated nature of the underworld and the upper world. Of course, privacy is very important for the protection of citizens, but criminals should not be able to hide behind it. I would like to ask the Minister to inform us on behalf of the cabinet about the plan of action on undermining at local level. Mr President, I will conclude. The present legislative proposals take steps in the right direction, but it could have been more ambitious as far as the PvdA is concerned. Research led by Professor Brigitte Unger of Utrecht University shows that our country is in a row with Cyprus and Luxembourg as the top three EU Member States most vulnerable to money laundering. The cause lies in a combination of high profits and low penalties. This goes against my party's sense of justice. There's something to be done about that, by passing higher sentences and better detecting. The present legislative proposals take important steps to this end. But there's still a long way to go. What can we expect from the government in this respect? My group looks forward to the Minister's answers to these and other questions from our input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u9	Mr President, thank you. In these times of corona and the health crisis and economic crisis caused by the pandemic, other things suddenly seem less important. However, the bill we are discussing here today is not insignificant. Mr. Chairman. It goes without saying that my group wholeheartedly supports the aim of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive and its amendment, namely the fight against money laundering. These practices must, of course, also be combated when they arise from the use of virtual currencies. That is one aspect which the amendment to the present directive relates in particular to. Where there is no need to discuss the objective, my group does have some concerns or questions about the means, in particular as to how that means was precisely shaped in the current implementing law. We also have concerns about what it means for the small fintech companies and start-ups operating within the Netherlands in this sector. In two written rounds we have also asked several questions about these aspects, but unfortunately we have not yet had fully satisfactory answers or answers. The answers again raise new questions. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. Firstly, there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the scale of the problem. Money laundering in general is a major problem; other groups have already referred to it. My group recognizes that too, and this may require a more far-reaching approach. But today we're talking specifically about money laundering through virtual currency. How often does this happen, for example, in comparison with grail money and cash? These are relevant questions with regard to the legislative proposal before us, but the Minister says he does not know. Of course, my group understands that it is difficult to obtain data on this, but it is possible that the problem we are talking about is only minor. Again, not the problem of money laundering in general, but via virtual currency. Of course, money laundering must be dealt with at all times; there must be no misunderstanding about that. This also applies in the case of cryptocurrency, regardless of the desirability of this currency. In my group's view, virtual or digital coins can generally be useful in offering alternatives to the banking-dominated financial system and payments. In any case, the phenomenon of cryptocurrency exists and is likely to take shape in the future only larger, albeit different from the present one. It is therefore a good thing that this too is adequately regulated in relation to money laundering. However, there are questions about effectiveness and its proportionality. The waterbed effect has already been mentioned in the Lower House. Criminals will resort to the unregulated part of the cryptocurrency via the so-called non-customial wallets. So we are talking today about regulating companies that offer so-called storage wallets, custom wallets, but it is likely that criminals who want to launder money will make little use of them, especially after the implementation of this European directive. On the waterbed effect, the Minister also says that he does not yet have a clear view of this. That's what he said in the Lower House. But he has also promised in the Lower House that this will be monitored and that additional measures will be considered if necessary. Perhaps the Minister could explain again how he is going to monitor this and what additional measures could be taken, and at what time. But the question is how effective this legislation is. This makes the demand for its implementation and the expected costs for the sector all the more relevant. As is well known, in the Netherlands it is mainly small companies, start-ups, which are active in this sector. Apart from how you think exactly about the phenomenon of crypto coins, my group does not think it is desirable that, as long as the phenomenon exists, this activity should be entirely in the hands of large players. Here, too, we must ensure that the diversity of commercial financial services is not limited. It is therefore in this light that my group is concerned about the potential high administrative costs of this implementation law for companies and businesses involved. The Minister said earlier 'because this has also been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives, 'not to be fully recognized in this picture, but he has expressed his desire to look at it. A motion was also adopted by the Lower House on the basis of which the Minister will monitor the impact of this law on small enterprises. That is good, and of course we would also like to be informed about the results. Nevertheless, the question to the Minister how he declares that the sector itself fears that these costs are not good. According to De Nederlandsche Bank ('De Nederlandsche Bank') which has become known in the meantime, the registration costs for cryptoservices alone will be €34.000. This is more than comparable costs for some other institutions such as trust offices. Is this the order of magnitude, so I ask the Minister, who the Minister himself was expecting and envisaged at the time of drafting this bill? Does he think it's a fair amount? Can he imagine that it is a considerable amount and possibly prohibitive for some small fintech companies? Mr. Chairman. I would also ask the Minister to clarify what these costs are and whether this could have been otherwise. Or is this mainly left to the supervisor, DNB? The answer to the written questions makes it clear that according to the Minister, this is necessary for the chosen supervisor, DNB, to be able to exercise effective supervision. It is the agreement that these costs are passed on. However, the sector feels cheated to the extent that they consider that this would translate requirements into higher administrative burdens which are not included in the amended directive itself and which also go beyond the proposal presented to the sector in the consultation. This is because it is laid down in the implementing act rather than in the law itself. Can the Minister reflect on this whole process again? Does he perhaps now understand better where the concerns of the sector in question come from? This also raises the question of whether too much is now laid down in the implementing decision. These are matters which, since they may have a significant material impact on the regular sector, could have been better included in the proposal. Certainly in this House too, the principle that the law is standard-setting is rightly given great importance and that it is undesirable for actual standards to be put into implementing regulations in delegated legislation. As is well known, the latter also happens regularly, especially with implementing laws. But that does not make this practice desirable in the eyes of my group. I'd like a response from the Minister. In response to further questions from us, the Minister writes that this is a question of further elaboration at the level of detail and that it is therefore not appropriate to include it at the level of law. But perhaps the Minister can reflect for a moment that at least the sector sees this differently and that it is considered that material demands have been substantially altered since the consultation on the basis of the legislative proposal. I am not saying that these demands would necessarily be unreasonable or undesirable, but perhaps they are necessary, but I do wonder. My problem now is that I cannot judge it properly because it is not part of the present legislative proposal. Perhaps the Minister could go into this a little further, so that my group can come to the best possible conclusion. For once again, we wholeheartedly support the objective of the present implementing law. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, as always, I look forward to this Minister's reply and wish him much health, wisdom and strength with all his work even more than usual at this particular time. We look forward to the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Ester, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Money laundering isn't a small beer. Estimates show that every year in the Netherlands, between 13 and 16 billion are laundered, roughly the order of magnitude of the budget of the Ministry of Justice and Security. Technological developments allow money laundering operations to take place increasingly via anonymous cryptocurrency. This threatens the emergence of an uncontrolled parallel market for the exchange of virtual and fiduciary funds. The financial system of the upper world is, as has been said, mixed with revenue from the criminal circuit through virtual currency. And this anonymous currency, as much as it is clear, is being used for terrorist financing. Crime and terrorism are intertwined in this way. Money laundering undermines our society and our economy. Terrorism keeps European countries regularly in a crippling grip and leads to a spiral of insecurity and fear. The ChristianUnion Group welcomes the fact that, in this case, new regulations, initiated from Brussels, bind exchange service providers and storage wallets to regulations and identify suspicious transactions. This brings virtual currency under the enforcement regime of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, which we gave the green light to in this house two years ago. That's a good thing. Mr. Chairman. My group needs a brief reflection of the Minister on the role of virtual funds and their providers in our monetary system. Now virtual currency and criminal behavior are more or less mentioned in one breath. This is perfectly understandable given the approach of the legislative proposals, but is the contribution of virtual currencies to the economic and financial functioning of our monetary system by definition negative or is it more nuanced? We believe that such reflection by the Minister will help the debate. It is now also the right time, given DNB's proposal today to experiment with digital central bank money. In short, is the frame that virtual funds are reprehensible, or is it only in the case that they are used to finance undermining activities such as terrorism and money laundering? That makes a lot of difference for the debate. By the way, if I open my spambox, I can't escape the conclusion that the bitcoin sector is looking for new customers in a very aggressive way. But, of course, I'd like to hear the Minister's reflection. How does he assess the development of fintech, which is largely based on virtual currency and blockchain technology and promises a disruption of common banking earning models? There are indeed many start-ups and scale-ups involved in this. In short, the Christian Union Group needs some clarification from the Minister. In the written preparation, my group specifically asked how the Ministry of Finance set up the internal knowledge infrastructure to control the criminal deployment of cryptocurrency, in order to capture trends, players and networks. That world is not very transparent for most of us and perhaps a bit shady. The answers to the questions raised by the ChristianUnion Group show that the Ministry has a team of government officials if I do have four staff who deal with virtual currency, among other things. That number is not impressive, especially if we use the size of this currency market and the rapid developments as a measuring bar. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he believes that his department's expertise in money laundering and terrorist financing is quantitatively and qualitatively in order. Then, of course, it is simply about the use of people and resources. Can we fight the interlinking of the top and underworld through anonymous money laundering in this way? There is also a demand for the role of our frequently harassed Tax Service. Can the service handle those developments around virtual currency, or are there concerns here? If so, which one? Is the ICT system in order to detect suspicious transactions? Mr Sent pointed that out as well. Now, of course, there is also an external knowledge infrastructure, in which actors such as DNB, the FIOD, FIU Netherlands and the WODC are decisive. But my question now focuses primarily on the internal knowledge economy. The core of the bill is tightening regulation on transactions with virtual currencies. The registration requirement is central to this, and the supervision of it by DNB. Suppliers are also required to assess risk sensitivity in transactions, customer research, monitoring and reporting unusual transactions, rules of conduct, control measures, procedures, etc. Does the Minister have any idea of the mood of the sector to meet all these new requirements? By the way, when will we be able to look at the AMvB, which further defines the obligations? Are the providers equipped to comply with these new requirements? And how are we going to regulate the enforcement? My group is also curious whether the Minister has consulted with the crypto sector on the new directive requirements and, if so, what conclusions he draws from them. Is there any willingness to cooperate? Defining the proportionality of the legislative proposal remains a difficult matter; it has already passed a few times. It is also not possible to set a euro accurately. However, given the seriousness of the underlying issue, namely the financing of terrorism by money laundering, the benefit of the doubt may be here. Furthermore, research shows that cryptocurrencies pose an increased risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. Mr. Chairman. We should also be aware of the serious side effects of the bill. The Christian Union Group is thinking of benevolent small entrepreneurs who are threatened by clients not to report suspicious transactions. The Alkaya/Van der Linde motion, adopted unanimously, rightly calls for attention to be paid to this. Can the Minister share with us how he intends to implement this motion? Mr. Chairman. The draft law before us is an extension of a European directive. This is not only about the necessary exchange of information between Member States, but also about learning from each other about the effectiveness of anti-money laundering measures. What actually works and what doesn't work? The members of my group attach great importance to sharing policy experiences. This is also an important component of European cooperation. Can the Minister clarify how this "learning" institutionally is secured in the implementation of the directive? Are there any facts of this in the almost two years that the fourth directive is now in force? Finally, a somewhat delicate matter. The provisions of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive were to be implemented in national legislation on 10 January last. That was not possible in the Netherlands. Can the Minister tell us what the consequences of this are? For example, does he expect to impose a financial penalty from Brussels? Is there any discussion on that? Mr. Chairman. With this last question, I would like to conclude my contribution. The Christian Union Group fully supports European anti-money laundering policy. The fight against organized crime must not be allowed to fade away. We must be extremely alert to the use of cryptocurrency to finance terrorism. If the corona crisis makes any sense, it is the fragility of social and economic constructions. The vulnerability of our upper world, if you will, is therefore at issue. The last thing we want is for the mixing of the upper and lower worlds to increase further through illegal virtual currency practices. I look forward, Mr President, to the Minister's answers to the questions of the Christian Union. And also I wish him much health, wisdom and strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the messenger for the hygiene measures which allow us to operate here today. Later this evening, for the second time this month, we will be voting on economic emergency packages in connection with the corona crisis. Let us say first of all that we are in favour of tackling money laundering and that we want to combat abuse. Due to the sudden global corona crisis, we are seeing an enormous acceleration in the applications of homework and online education for our children and students. At the same time, wireless ATM payments suddenly take a huge flight. Cashless payment has de facto become a widely accepted practice in many supermarkets and shops within a few weeks. In short, it is precisely because of the crisis that we see an enormous acceleration in the application of all kinds of financial innovations. It is therefore important now that the Netherlands maintains, consolidates and expands its good starting position in the field of fintech industry. These fintech companies are often smaller or medium-sized enterprises, in which such innovations generally thrive and reach full maturity. The government also recognises this important role of start-ups and SMEs. For example, last Friday, 17 April, in Minister Blok's letter on the cabinet's envisaged European SME strategy, we read the following. I quote: "The cabinet is committed to a highly conducive entrepreneurial environment for start-ups and scale-ups. The cabinet has set itself the goal of making the Dutch start-up and scale-up ecosystem one of the world's top." The world's top! And Minister Blok goes on, I quote: "The cabinet welcomes the focus on deep tech, blockchain and fintech, especially for the target group start-ups and scale-ups." Minister Blok's SME letter also highlights the "think small first" principle. This may not be so appropriate in the current setting, with all these billions, but in the "think small first" principle, the cabinet has planned that policy makers should already take SME into account at an early stage of policy development. Unfortunately, this principle does not seem to have been complied with. Mr. Chairman. How is the proposal for an amended Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive now compatible with the cabinet policy announced last Friday in the European SME Letter, my question to the Minister? How does he see the "think small first" principle applied in practice here? In the Netherlands, there is a thriving crypto and blockchain industry, precisely those innovations that are referred to in the cabinet's SME strategy. The Dutch government also supports this with initiatives such as the Dutch Blockchain Coalition and the Techleap.nl platform, an initiative led by His Royal Highness Prince Constantijn. We, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, are deeply concerned about the determined intentions of this law, which, in practice, will become a costly administrative millstone around the neck of these start-ups for these innovative blockchain companies. These entrepreneurs are forced by this policy to stop their innovative businesses or to move abroad. That's not supposed to happen, is it? In dealing with this law, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats asked for a calculation to be made to see how much turnover a crypto company has to run in order to bear the additional supervisory costs resulting from this law. It has also been remembered by Mr Van Apeldoorn, I think. Unfortunately, the answer was not forthcoming. It goes without saying, however, that if a costly registration regime is introduced, it is a major cost to such companies. So you don't have to be a psychic to understand that there will be few innovative start-ups left in the Netherlands. The regulation is therefore no longer proportionate to these small, innovative start-ups. If the Dutch Government is really serious about the SME policy it has given its mouths, including for fintechs, and its commitment to ensuring that employment remains intact in these corona times, then it is now time to take action. The solution is now at hand and comes from the Minister. And that solution is to delete an unnecessary rule. The fintech sector has pointed out to us that the application of Article 23e initially consulted with the market, i.e. without the additions later added by the Ministry at the request of DNB, could actually remove all the legal operational objections I have just described. Can you explain, for example, to the Minister, what stands in the way of going back to your own initial article of law, as was initially proposed before this was amended? As I understand it, the minister's ministry wrote a fine piece of law, which was poor in policy. Then DNB asked for some extra rules and so this has been adapted even more. This addition was opposed not only by the sector but also by the Council of State, because it actually amounts to a licensing regime, which is explicitly not permitted under the European Directive. I have just reviewed the Council of State Opinion of 2 July 2019, and I would like to hand it over to the Minister afterwards. It says very clearly, and I quote: 'The Section notes that the directive on providers of services for the exchange of virtual currency and fiduciary currencies and depositories explicitly provides for a registration requirement'. There is no possibility of introducing an authorisation obligation on the basis of the Directive; and the increased risk of money laundering and terrorist financing do not give rise to the introduction of such an authorisation obligation, according to the Council of State in its opinion of the Implementation Act amending 4th Anti-money laundering Directive of 2 July 2019. So what we are actually seeing here is that this addition to supervision, which entails significant additional costs and bureaucracy, is deliberately sacrificing this important sector for the Netherlands as collateral damage in this new legislation. Like I said, the billions of rescue packages are flying around here every day. We fully support this, and as far as we are concerned, this cannot be implemented quickly enough, but for the sake of change, the Minister has a chance to retain employment and innovation for €0 by going back to the version of a previous legislative proposal. What could stop the Minister from doing that? And then he follows the advice of the Council of State; that is two birds at one stroke. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to highlight the proportionality and legality of this legislative proposal. They've been following us too far out of sight. Finally, our question to the Minister: can the Minister promise that he is willing to restore the bill, so the initial article of law of his own department, to old glory? Then the cold is out of the sky and jobs and innovation are preserved for the Netherlands, the Council of State is satisfied, everyone is happy. And it doesn't cost anything. We'd like to talk to the minister about this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall suspend the sitting for a brief moment, until 8.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u15	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Many thanks to the members of your Chamber for the time and attention they have paid to their input and their questions to me, because that also shows the great importance of the subject. I would also like to thank you for the positive basic attitude which I think I have found, at least in many cases. By the way, I also understand a lot of comments that were made afterwards, because of course it is also to an important extent terra incognita. So I also understand that that raises all kinds of questions and additional thoughts. Mr. Chairman. I want to do the answer as follows. I would like to start with a number of comments and questions that are generally about money laundering. Secondly, AMLD5 generally, thirdly, the cryptos and fourthly, the referral portal. I think that means I can capture anything or almost anything. So I'll start with block one, money laundering general. Mrs Karimi started it and Mrs Sent has paid a great deal of attention to it. I think that is quite right. Money laundering is a huge problem for our society. That is, I think, a conclusion that needs to be crossed again. Mrs Sent spoke, I believe, of 16 billion. The surveys show something different numbers, but I always assume that at least 15 to 20 billion. So it has a really huge size. That means that the underworld simply knows how to eat at the top world. So it's an incredibly big problem. Those who thought it might be less in the Netherlands than abroad, have really come home from a cold carnival in recent years. It is therefore a subject which has always been our focus, but which has received much more attention in recent years. See also all the actions that Grapperhaus and I have specifically started over the past year. But I cannot fail to underline that again and to be very supportive of these two speakers in particular. For this reason, of course, this legislative proposal is of great importance and this is why this debate is taking place. The legislative proposal, of course, provides for the scope of the Laundering Prevention Act to be extended in several respects. An important extension is then that providers of virtual currency services are regulated. They must register with DNB. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. Customer due diligence and unusual transactions should be reported. And, as has rightly been said, information must be shared, where relevant, with the prosecution and investigation authorities. Furthermore, of course, we are also discussing the referral portal. I will make a few specific comments on this in the fourth block. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karimi also asked how I assess the effectiveness and effectiveness of the system with the gatekeeper function. It is seen internationally that such a system of gatekeepers is the most effective. These gatekeepers are the first to have contact with the customer or client, insofar as they enter into a business relationship. They also often have continuous contact and are often well able to assess when a transaction fits or doesn't fit the profile. But since this is the optimistic side, I would like to add, in the direction of Mrs Karimi, that we have seen in recent years that it needs to be improved in many places in society. That means more needs to be done by gatekeepers. We've learned a few hard lessons. I think that the conclusion after the last two and a half years should also be that the government must do more and also do more, because there is a lot at stake. Mrs Sent asked if I would like to stay in touch with De Nederlandsche Bank and continue to give insight into the progress that is being made there. I'd love to. I myself am informed by DNB about the ZBO-accounting every year. The first report will soon become public. I admit to Mrs Sent that I will also explicitly share it with the First Chamber. By the way, this subject regularly attracts the attention of the official contacts with DNB and this regularly comes across in the biweekly conversation I have with the President. I admit to Mrs Sent that I will proactively inform the Chamber about this through the annual Zbo route. Mrs Sent also asked to what extent bank directors personally committed themselves. This is a subject in which we have learned strong lessons in recent years. It's different now than four or five years ago. It has become the subject of the dialogue between the Ministry and bank directors and, of course, between DNB and bank directors. This is true of the administrative level, but in my own contacts with bank managers I have talked about this subject over and over again, I have stressed that it must be done better, because there is a great deal at stake for society. This means that the government must take responsibility and do more in the area of information exchange and ensure that banks are also equipped to tackle this problem successfully. Banks themselves, however, have to do more than they used to do four or five years ago, because that was just too little. Mrs Sent then asked how the right climate for the management of integrity risks would be created. That is a very good question, which you could answer in many layers. One thing is that attention has to be paid time and time again in the various reports and in the various consultations with the sector. Moreover, this integrity risk should be high on the agenda for banks and supervisors. My observation is that we have seen a watershed here, first on the occasion of that case at ING, then on ABN AMRO and everything that has come with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u17	I hear the Minister say that supervision at the banks was too little. That has also been shown, because huge fines have been paid. However, I wonder where those huge money laundering scandals were for which the fines were paid. I have heard very little about this so far. Has it become a tick-the-box, compliance culture, or has there been evidence of massive abuses? I haven't heard much about that lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u18	I would like to ask Mr Otten to be patient with regard to the case now before the Public Prosecutor with regard to ABN AMRO, because I do not have any additional information on this. That's what the state's attorney's office is up to right now. With regard to ING's case, I would like to refer him to the public information on this matter. In this context, ING has been fined hundreds of millions. If you read the casuistics, as an outsider you really have to draw the conclusion that things have gone seriously wrong there. I don't think there's much point in trying to spoon all this casuism out of my head. Of course, the system that was at its core and which shut itself down after more than three risk notifications came in in a particular category was totally unacceptable. The bank itself has also acknowledged this, and my observation is that it is very hard to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u19	It is clear that we too are against abuse and money laundering, but what I hear from the financial sector is that it has really gone a long way and that this is a huge cost. In view of the risk of fines, it is, of course, going to be intensified even further. All these costs are passed on to consumers. If we haven't gone a little crazy with this whole thing, my question is to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u20	As far as I am concerned, there is no mention of the latter. It is really obvious that it is crucial for a very internationally functioning country such as the Netherlands, with an entire international financial sector, to do more here. What I very much agree with Mr Otten is that then, of course, the government should not so much ask for compliance in the tick-the-box category, but should take care of regulation and provide tools, so that the problem is dealt with more effectively. To be honest, that is exactly the heart of what we are trying to build with the sector, namely: can you not allow this sector, with all the safeguards needed in the field of privacy, to do data pooling? And can't you make it even easier for them to share information? I would like to mention one example, which always causes great annoyance to me. At the moment a bank thinks "this gentleman or this lady is wrong" and decides that individual to work out the bank, then that individual can literally walk across the street and open an account at the next bank branch. Bank director A of bank X is not allowed to share that information with bank director B of bank Y. Then the whole circus starts again from the beginning. That walking across the street often does not happen literally, but until recently it was as simple as that. So we really need to help the banks. They may require the government to equip them with the means to deal with this. So I very much agree with Mr Otten. Ms Karimi asked how the supervision of the reporting of transactions by banks relates between DNB and the ECB. The monitoring of the anti-money laundering policy has been carried out by the Member States. So DNB supervises compliance with the Wwft. The ECB has no role in this. However, we consider it wise to call for even more attention in Europe to be paid to money laundering. This is exactly what the Netherlands, in close cooperation with France in particular and to a lesser extent with Duisland, has used over the past period: can we achieve a joint, broader money laundering agenda? I have shared with many European colleagues: if there are people who really think that they do not have the problem we have in the Netherlands, they must raise their finger. But my assessment is that all the Member States of the European Union have to a large extent to do with this same problem. See, for example, the problems in the Baltic and see the problems in Denmark. It's really much wider than just the Netherlands. The European Commission will come forward with a consultation this year on how EBA can act in this regard. It is very focused on the Dutch initiative, so I think that is good news. Mrs Sent's question whether I share the criticism that the government itself is inadequate, I think I have answered more or less. I think that we are going to do a lot more and that we are right to do so. If you're critical, it's not for nothing that we've been running a lot faster for the past two or three years. That's not a reproach to anyone. I say immediately: more will be needed, because this is a game of cat and mouse. There is a great deal at stake for the rule of law. Mrs Sent also asked what investments were made in new technologies. An example of this is the Pilot Serious Crime Task Force, which started within the Financial Expertise Centre. There, under strict conditions, information from the detection is shared with four of the major banks at an early stage. So that's still experimental, but it's an example of an initiative. It takes some time to share many of these initiatives, but if there is a need for them, I can keep the Chamber informed, with some of them perhaps being more confidential. Mrs Sent asked me to inform the Chamber of the plan of action on undermining at local level. I think it is a very justified observation that many of the problems also occur locally. By the way, this often lies more with the Minister of Justice than directly with me. So we are taking this into account in the plan of action. I will make sure that if Grapperhaus comes up with that effect before the summer, he shares that with the Chamber. Mrs Sent said that she is in favour of lower wages and higher penalties. That first piece I recognized, the second piece I recognized less as the core of the ideas of the Labour Party. But I have interpreted it in such a way that, like the cabinet, it is actually very important that we address the problem. I very much agree with that, of course. Concrete measures are being taken. Grapperhaus is also looking at this type of parts. So, with Mrs Sent's permission, I'd like to leave that with him. But he's actually looking at all the elements that are relevant to reduce crime. Of course, that has to do with the chance of getting caught. That has to do with the punishment. From a gray past, when I was a member of the Justice Commission here, I know that it has to do with the time between someone being caught and the time when they are actually convicted. And so there are a number of those elements that are relevant to the effectiveness of criminal law. Grapperhaus is looking at each of those elements right now, specifically in the category of money laundering. Mrs Karimi asked about the effectiveness of the investigation services. You could say that the Grapperhaus plan consists of a few pillars: raising the barriers, increasing the effectiveness of the gatekeepers, which I was just talking about, and strengthening the detection and prosecution. I was just talking about the latter, in response to Mrs Sent. Interestingly enough, I would add, there is also the possibility here of learning from what other countries are doing. I was in Italy myself a few months ago. There, of course, we have been engaged for decades in an extremely serious fight with organized crime, the mafia. I am not saying that we would like to implement everything that is being done there, but the holistic approach, the human force and the resources that are being made available there have led me to say to the FIOD and others in the Ministry: go there again and see what works there and what could fit in the Dutch context. Mr Ester asked if the expertise in Finance is in order. He thought four people weren't enough. I can, of course, explain that they are the top of the line at the Ministry of Finance. That is true, but I would add that within Finance there really is a department of about 25 people involved in this. They do not all do this full-time, but it is a broader policy area that concerns the financial sector and integrity policy. And of course a lot of this work also takes place at De Nederlandsche Bank. So it's not just in the Ministry where this is happening. But I see Mr Ester's question as an encouragement to keep enough people available for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u21	I got that number of four in the naive question I asked about it in the written preliminary round. Then I thought: that's very little. The Minister himself said that it is between 15 billion and 20 billion in money laundering. There are undoubtedly many others involved, but if you only have four people, that does not relate well to the assessment made by the Minister himself. Undoubtedly, all of these are very good people; I am convinced of that. But it still makes me feel a little poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u22	I can understand that in itself, if you think that those four Treasury staff would have to face up to this organized crime on their own, which would then be responsible for the 15 billion to 20 billion in money laundering. To reassure you, of course, it is not like that. For many within the column of justice, many in the police, many in the FIOD and, and, and, and, and, of course, are fighting organized crime day and night. Should I receive signals that we would be understaffed there, I would do something about it immediately. That goes without saying. That's not my perception, but I'll keep an eye on it. The same applies to De Nederlandsche Bank. I have also sometimes told De Nederlandsche Bank that I would like to know when the feeling there would be that there is too little capacity, for example for supervision of the trust sector. If that were the case, I'd like to have a conversation about how we can solve that. Because the bottleneck must not be a lack of capacity on the part of the government. I very much agree with Mr Ester. I believe that I have also addressed Mr Ester's question on the fight against the underworld and the interlinking. Mr Ester asked if the Tax Administration could handle the developments around the virtual currency. For the record, the FIOD is, of course, the part of the Tax Administration that is involved with other investigation services in the detection of this type of crime. In doing so, the FIOD also pays attention to virtual currency, as shown by the aforementioned specific cyber department, that Financial Advanced Cyber Team. A lot more is happening too. I think the FIOD really is equipped for that. At the same time, I think that you, whether it's the FIOD, whether it's the FIU or the police, and I've been adding that since this debate, the people of Finance, on a regular basis, once a year, have to ask whether the government is sufficiently equipped, in terms of legislation, in terms of manning, in terms of the expertise of that manning, in order to win that fight. I think that is a very relevant question. I also specifically mention this expertise, because it is also one of the things I have learned in Italy. There are just many dozens of accountants employed there. Perhaps we think: what does such a profession do in that structure of FIOD and FIU? They said: the opponent is so gifted in how to channel money that we simply need registry accountants to be able to fight effectively. In any case, I found that an understanding that I have also placed with us to see if that would be something we should do more about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u23	My question is this. The minister says that the government must do more and also the gatekeepers must do more. Let me focus my question on the role of the government and certainly also on the last thing the Minister said about legislation, staffing and expertise. So what is the next step in which he needs to invest more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u24	That depends on the agenda that Grapperhaus and I are making and which we will also, or he will mostly, bring out. But I think that the very valid point of Ester is that you have to put the stick in regularly anyway to see if we are still sufficiently equipped to do this. We have made a huge step forward over the last two years, including through damage and shame. Because, of course, we have seen what happens at the banks, but we have also had some really horrific incidents in the field of organised crime, with the disastrous low point of the murder of a lawyer. So we're doing a lot more, but we shouldn't have any illusions. The opponent will be able to walk new paths every time. This was so clear from one of the visits I made to the banks. There she explained through how many banks such a circle of money laundering went in the past. Nowadays, that money literally goes all over the world. It's cut into little pieces. So it's not at once, bam, a million dollars that comes on their tab, because then the light goes on quickly. They're small denominations of things that seem innocent. They go all over the world and then they end up on a Dutch account number via a completely normal account number. So you also need to become more and more involved in your approach. That is a bit of a long answer, Mr President, but I thought it best to share these details with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u25	There is no difference of opinion between the Minister and me on the analysis of the problem. But I've been listening very carefully. The only specific subject you mentioned is data pooling. I am trying to find out what concrete measures the cabinet intends to take to increase effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u26	There are still a few things I can mention. We have already made additional money available in the previous Spring note, but also since then in the area of strengthening this type of activity within the Ministry of Finance, read the Tax Administration and the FIOD. Last November, we made EUR 55 million more available to the Minister of Justice at the year's notice twice, precisely when it comes to tackling organised crime. At that time, it was also publicly stated that, if possible, the cabinet has the ambition to make that money structural. I cannot yet anticipate the spring note, because it still has to be sent to the House of Representatives, but that ambition was clearly expressed at that time. In addition, there is the legislation that Grapperhaus comes up with. There are a number of proposals, and we are also talking to the Dutch Data Protection Authority about what is and is not wise. That's a next lote to the tribe. And we are doing very intensively with the banks. Data pooling is part of that. But it's a broader palette, which should be able to overcome the type of examples I just mentioned about that crook crossing the street. I hope that this will give a little more context and confidence in the concrete. Mrs Karimi also asked me if I would like to continue to inform you about intermediate positions and preliminary findings. I'll do that without further ado. With her permission, I will take this into account in the regular policy cycle on money laundering. Then I will ensure that the First Chamber is informed about at least once a year, and perhaps at most once a year. More often, but to give the only substance that might be good. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the second block, AMLD5, with a few general questions, followed by the cryptos. Mr Ester asked if I could clarify how learning between Member States is institutionally guaranteed in the implementation of the directive. That is a fair question, because it is not always as simple as it seems. We learn that in a few ways. Expert working groups are held regularly in Brussels. This is happening on many subjects, also specifically on this issue. That is where experts from all Member States will join under the guidance of the European Commission. But also from other EU bodies, such as the ECB, EBA and other relevant organisations. That's one. Two: EBA, of course, has an important harmonizing and coordinating role and regularly publishes opinions and guidelines that see exactly what Mr Ester describes. The third example is the investigations carried out by the Commission itself, which often involve the Member States themselves. Again, just in full transparency to the Chamber: this is the good news. I myself believe that there is still a world to be won at European level. In addition to all the advantages that we may be able to sum up in relation to the relatively free distribution of capital by the Union, we do not have a sufficient European response on the damage side, namely capital used for money laundering, which simply goes through the whole of the Union. Too often the Member States fail, but at European level too often we fail. That was precisely the reason to take the initiative and to hang out with France by saying: let us really do something about it. Mr Ester asked whether there were any facts of the information sharing. There are a few examples I can mention. But we have done this very specifically, for example, in the European Commission's investigation into money laundering scandals, which we have seen in the Netherlands, but also in other countries. This is, by the way, a subject which I have raised with my European colleagues on a regular basis, one-on-one and in meetings. Mr Ester also asked how I intend to carry out Mr Alkaya's and Mr Van der Linde's motion from the House of Representatives. I have previously committed to the House of Representatives, as well as to your Chamber, to a broad evaluation of the implementation of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive and also to return to your Chamber within three years of its entry into force. This means that your Chamber will receive a report on this matter by 1 July next year at the latest. I will therefore inform you in advance about the elements of this evaluation. I will include the motion to which Mr Ester refers in this promised evaluation, which will enable it to be taken as fully as possible. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Strien said that, as far as he is concerned, it is unclear what this law has to do with the fight against terrorism. These legislative proposals derive from the European Directive on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. That is because the financing of terrorism ultimately takes place along the same financial channels as money laundering. So if Mr Van Strien says 'it's often something different in the core', then my answer would be: sometimes, and perhaps often, but at the same time terrorists have also engaged in normal criminal activities. The channels they use to do something with that money are the same. So that's the logic. But of course Mr Van Strien is absolutely right that the objectives, and often also the modus operandi, of the average drug baron and the average terrorist, are very different. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to Mr. Ester again. This cube is almost entirely devoted to him. Can I indicate the consequences of the late implementation? That is, of course, a painful point. It is not the first time that the Chamber has asked me this type of question. We received a letter of formal notice on 13 January. Normally, we will have two months to respond, but given what is going on in the world, the Commission has given us until 15 June. If, after this debate, the Chamber comes to the conclusion that we can proceed with this law, it should go just as well with a vote that might take place next week. Mr. Chairman. Then I will come to Mr Ester in this block again. Do I also expect the imposition of a financial penalty? No, I don't expect that, just because we have until June 15th. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the cryptos. Mr Otten asked Mr Otten, and that is quite rightly a serious point about how we are going to do with regard to the SME strategy and the "think small" principle. I have said it before, even in this house: fintech is extremely important for the Netherlands. I myself am a passionate supporter of that. I say immediately that there is a lot going on in this sector which I understand for less than half, but besides the four people we just discussed one by one, the Ministry has a really good look at it. It is an incredibly essential part of technology in the Netherlands at all. Otten rightly said that the Netherlands is also at the forefront of this. At the same time, you have to be honest. Mrs Karimi O'Brien but there were more; Van Apeldoorn also pointed out that cryptocurrency is very often used by organized crime. The exact figures are hard to give, but if you look at the preferred method of payment on the dark web, then those are cryptos. That doesn't mean that everyone who's in cryptos is by definition wrong, but we all see, given what's missing right now, that cryptocurrency for organized crime is obviously a very easy way to lock money away. So I think it's valid to specifically target cryptos, despite everything Otten has said about the importance of the sector. I will come to a few specific points in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u27	It was not Mr Van Apeldoorn who said that, because I think the portrait of my question was a different one. I was wondering to what extent the Minister could give an insight into the extent of the phenomenon. So it could also be that the phenomenon is rather small when it comes to using cryptocurrency by criminals compared to other forms such as cash. In addition, my question was a different one. I understand now that the Minister has more insight into this than I seem to have understood earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u28	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u29	Okay, here you go. Then I'll wait for the answer. But to clarify, my comment was not that it is a major problem. My question was: how big is the problem and how is the problem relative to the non-customial wallets?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u30	Mr Van Apeldoorn is always in my mind, but I have just withdrawn him from the wrong question. Then it was one of the other speakers who, of course, I do not appreciate any less than Mr Van Apeldoorn. So excuse the misunderstanding. I'll get the question right away. Because Mr Van Apeldoorn asked if I could stick a percentage to that. Maybe it's good to say a few things about that after all. In our national risk analysis, not an analysis of me but also of the services, the risk of cryptos is considered high without prejudice. Several other reports also highlight the major risks posed by cryptos: Europol, the G20, the FATF, the UN Security Council, OECD, the European Parliament and the Public Prosecutor. When you get all these reports together, they all draw rather sharp and fundamental conclusions. My tendency would then be to think: there might be a core of truth in that. The estimates in these reports then differ again. But our own OM and the FIOD have an explicit view that a large part of the payments are made through the darkweb in this way. That's not that crazy either, because that way, of course, it's very easy to do business there. So you can't put an exact percentage on it. If Mr Van Apeldoorn so wishes, I can look again at what is in all these reports and what the different bands are. They change over time, they change by country. But I think it would be wiser if all those institutions I mentioned were to give an estimate that this is a serious problem and we have to do something with it, rather than do the opposite and think: well, it may not be that bad. Mr. Otten looks like he found a percentage on his phone. But I'm gonna sit back and wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u31	My group was simply curious whether the Ministry has certain figures and can give a more precise assessment of them. I now note that the Minister refers to all sorts of reports in which that is stated. I'd like to take that from him, too. Anyway, the exact percentage can't be given. I am not at all concerned about underestimating the problem. I think the problem is big, but when it comes to how the darkweb is used by criminals of virtual cryptocurrency, is it correct that the amendment to the fourth Anti-money laundering directive now before us does not do much about it? Hence my questions about the effectiveness and proportionality of the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u32	I think so, but maybe I should just... For I have a few more questions from Mr Van Apeldoorn and a few others in this category. Let me finish that one. Then I hope I have been able to answer. If not, I'll try again or in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u33	A short question, supplementary to that of Mr Van Apeldoorn. The Financial Intelligence Unit reports a lot of problems with credit card fraud. We've also been asked how many crypto messages there are. The Minister did not reply to that. So do we have any idea how big this problem really is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u34	Mr Otten has often surprised me positively during these debates, so I thought: he is coming to the microphone now and then he spoons up a great percentage. Then he says either that the Minister is absolutely right or: it is so little, leave the whole bill alone. But unfortunately, he too hasn't been able to find the percentage. I would like to check whether I can find something specifically in the category of FIU, because that is what Mr Otten is asking for. Let me see if I have an answer to that in the second term, or else I will do so in writing. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add one more thing. I understand Otten's question and Van Apeldoorn's question very well. We are also dealing here with an innovative financial product. We're dealing with a crypto. Let me speak for myself, but I wouldn't rule out the fact that some members of your house, like most people at home, had to admit a year or four or five ago that they didn't really know what a crypto was. Nowadays, we have an almost weekly conversation at the Ministry. Today it is widely used on the Internet. In the meantime we have a period in which bitcoins went up and down. In the meantime, I have had to warn several times, also publicly, that this is something different than many other things that Dutch people could put their money into. So this is all a little terra incognita, too. Some data, which I too would like to have in detail, are sometimes just not there yet. Mr. Chairman. I will stop making relativistic comments and move quickly on to the questions I have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u35	In addition to this. I do not want to disappoint the Minister as a result of the percentage. In America, surveys have been published, which I can also send to you, which states that, according to American sources, with about 1% of the crypto transactions something would not be in the hook. Of course, I do not know whether this is comparable in Europe; it will rather be less, I think. If you can find out more about it, we'd be happy to hear it. But I hear from a lot of people that there's a much bigger problem with credit cards in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u36	Here's what we're gonna do. On the contrary, I tried, with my relative remark, to point out in all seriousness that we simply do not know a great deal about this. Mr Otten is, of course, quite right to say that credit cards, which have of course been around for a long time, have a lot of bullshit, to put it at home. That aside from the fact that we all know that many criminals today use a scale for 100 bills and no longer use counting machines. So in the field of cash, we also have a huge problem. So it's en-and-and-and. But I'm highly recommended for those statistics. Let me agree that we are trying to share with the Chamber next year the information that is available, including in this area, in the report that I have already promised to Mrs Sent. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester asked me to follow on from the little debate I just had with Van Apeldoorn and Otten, whether the frame that virtual funds are laughable is actually true. Again: no, of course that is not true. There are all kinds of things that have to do with virtual money and that are started by financially innovative companies. That's what we're for. I must continue to stress that, because otherwise it would almost snow under. We're huge for it. Many of these financial innovations are, of course, also becoming mainstream at some point in time. See also the report that was published today by De Nederlandsche Bank, and which I have a positive foundation on, which is about digital money. Several political groups in the House of Representatives also deserve praise, because they have contributed to this. You should never run away from that positive side of all that kind of innovation. At the same time, it is true that I am back to my previous point, which is that those who want to launder often emigrate to cryptos. That part of reality, with all our enthusiasm for innovation, should not be neglected. 'Cause that's just the case, so all the experts I just mentioned say. In doing so, I think I have also answered Mr Ester's question as to how I assess the development of fintech, precisely when it comes to banking income models. I think I have mentioned the example here before: we have of course already experienced a huge transition over the last 30 years. I remember how it was when I went to the grocery store with my mom as a boy. Then two of those huge carts came, and then my mom took a bank card out of one bag, because there was an autograph on it, and a checkbook from the other bag. The euro cheques came from them, which could only be issued up to a certain amount. And how are things these days? My kids put a pass on a device that nobody knows what's in it, and very often they are asked to enter a PIN. And in 30 years, the weather will be completely different. So that's unstoppable, and we don't want to stop it. In my opinion, we are always very much in favour of this in the Netherlands. But the negative effects that every innovation almost inevitably brings with it must be mitigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u37	The minister talked about innovation, virtual money and bitcoins. He made, quite understandable, positive comments. It's not for tonight, but for later, I think, but I was wondering if that's not an ever bigger problem for the IRS. I am referring to control, and to ensuring that we have a proper understanding of the tax debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u38	Not yet, but with all the money that is getting away from the sight of the Tax Administration, it becomes complicated to make another attack on it. Mr Van Rooijen knows that much better than I do. During the time Mr Van Rooijen was Secretary of State, light years ago, people put cash in their trunks and drove it to a bank in Switzerland. Nowadays, it's a different way. But I very much agree with him: the better your ability to withdraw from the sight of authorities, the more you are able to evade tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you, Minister. Would it perhaps be good to have a closer look at this at a later date, whether or not preceded by a letter, in a debate with the Secretary of State, the Minister or both? That could be around the Financial Reviews in the fall. Would you take that with you? The answer shows that you also have concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u40	Let me nuance it. I have great concerns about money laundering, and above all about what it does to society. I have big, big concerns about that. I also indicated that I think that we really should get along. That is why I agreed with the questions put by Mrs Karimi, Mr Ester and others. This applies to the banks, justice and police, the Ministry of Finance and De Nederlandsche Bank, so all parties involved. That's two. Three is Mr Van Rooijen's question: is it true that these crypto developments are creating a tax problem? Honestly, I don't think that's the biggest problem. The size is too small for that. It is also often about money that is already in criminal hands. So it is really different from what the average Dutchman does, because he gets his money transferred through his paycheck, and that happens in the full light. But here's what I'm gonna do. I would add it to the report I have promised Mrs Sent, which I have already embellished three times during this debate. So I'm doing that a fourth time now and I don't rule out it happening again in a second. But I do not want to make Mr Van Rooijen happy in advance, because I do not think that this is the biggest problem the Tax Administration has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u41	Mr. Van Rooijen, your third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u42	Well, I'll share that with you. But at first, you said you were worried, and a little later, you said it was small. You don't know it either, but you think it's small.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u43	At the moment Mr Van Rooijen is going to sum me up, we always get on slippery ice. So I'm referring to my previous statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u44	I would, of course, like to try to get that fourth time done; you understand that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u45	There's no limit. Let me add that, otherwise Members will see if they can get through that limit. So there's no limit to it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u46	I was pleased to hear the Minister explaining the pros and cons of cryptocurrency. It is clear that this is being abused by all kinds of criminals. That's clear. We do not know how big that is, but perhaps that is not the most important point either. It is about its enormous negative impact on society and on the economy. But we also have the need not to put the start-up world, which many of us have something to do with, in that goddamn corner. That has already been said by several spokesmen. How can we do that best? You might consider, for example, turning on the start-up world to get those crooks you're talking about up there, perhaps using their own technology. Turn them on in a very positive way too! Could I tempt you to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u47	Absolutely, absolutely. I have tried to say that it begins with the fact that it is of course fantastic that this happens in the Netherlands. I also sincerely believe what I said earlier to Mr Otten. There is a great deal of innovation in the Netherlands at all, including in this particular area. I continue to stress this because we often talk here about the problems that exist. If you are not careful, this suggests that everything that is going on in a particular sector is a problem, but that is not the case at all. We also have very close contact with this sector, also wider, about what the cabinet's fintech agenda is. I find it an interesting idea to specifically ask these companies how they could help. It is not so much a question of saying that we think it is fantastic that they are there, but of how they can help with all the knowledge and skills that exist. I think that's an interesting thought, and I'd like to take it with me. I suspect that in a year's time Mr Ester will want to read that back to Mrs Sent in that cat bell. Mr. Chairman. Ms. Karimi asked how DNB gets specific knowledge about virtual money. Like the Ministry, DNB works with other parties. There are all kinds of consultation structures in Europe, including De Nederlandsche Bank. DNB has been designated as a supervisor from the start of this process and has had a long time to prepare for this. I can say with some pride that he is one of the frontrunners in Europe. That also has to do with the positive point Ester just mentioned. We have had this situation a little longer. This also makes De Nederlandsche Bank one of the leading players. Mrs Sent and Mrs Karimi, I thought, asked about the way in which FATF standards for cryptos are taken. Is it true that Germany, Ireland and Luxembourg have integrated this? Those standards go beyond AMLD5 in certain respects, but I really must stress that the vast majority of the standards are covered by this bill. We are trying to stay as close as possible to this harmonisation and a level playing field. By the way, these FATF standards were not adopted until last autumn, long after the legislative proposal had been submitted. If I am being very honest, I suspect that this is not the last directive, and certainly not the last bill discussed by this cabinet and certainly by Cabinets after this. My prediction is: these will be updates, updates and one more update.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u48	In my speech, I really stressed that you could go beyond that minimum harmonisation. But you have chosen to stay close to the directive in the translation into the legislative proposal and not to enrich it further, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u49	We have just looked at how we can implement as soon as possible, also taking into account the views of De Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM. How can we look at what seems feasible at the moment? So, as I said, we are already on the late side. I would very much like to take many of the suggestions in this debate, but this seemed sensible to us. I would like to point out a point that was also raised. We initially intended to go a little further in some respects, but the Council of State was very critical of that. I think it's being implemented for the most part. We really found a way out of that. If Mrs Karimi asks for one, two or three more things to be kept on the list for the next time, then I think that is only useful to hear in this debate. I can't promise that next time we'll bring them into a law anyway, but I do think it's important to keep weighing that up with the updates we get. Is that appropriate? Is that proportional?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u50	Then my question to the Minister would be whether you are prepared not to wait for another directive to come from Europe, but simply to look at those standards, to see how you can translate them into additional legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u51	So, what do you want me to do? Really, I mean what I just said. This debate is with us for at least a decade, so there will be updates. Let me say the following. As soon as there is another update on the very subject we are dealing with today, and when we weigh parts in the area of what Mrs Karimi says and what has just fallen out of the boat, or adjacent to one of the areas that has been mentioned, we actually say 'hey, that deserves to be transposed into legislation', we do so. Isn't that a nice answer to her question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u52	Mrs Karimi, third and finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u53	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. That's a good hand-out, I'm sure. I would, however, like to link it to a certain deadline, so I would like you to say that at a next update you have already said once a year, at that particular date, I am going to see what new legislation is needed to introduce.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u54	Yeah, I'd like to make a commitment. But I want to make sure that I don't throw disappointment into the future about one thing. So I would very much like to take stock of all these things, but then the weighting still has to be carried out, including whether the cabinet thinks it is proportionate to transpose some of these ideas into legislation. And if a group says that the cabinet is not spouty enough, then we can, of course, have another debate on that. But for now, let's agree that they won't fall off the wagon, and at least we'll take them back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u55	Minister, may I ask you how much more time you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u56	Mr President, I was rather quick, but I did run into a few interruptions. I have a very short fourth block, and I'm over half the third block. And after the fourth block, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u57	I hear a lot about updates, that we're gonna write a cat bell about something, and I know what. How are you going to secure employment in this innovative sector? Because if that law is introduced, then we don't have a level playing field and then those people either quit, or go abroad, and then we lose a lot of innovation and high-quality employment. How are you going to do that in practice? This cannot be done with updates, consultation and delay, because this simply has consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u58	It's really, really more nuanced. And I have already said to Mr Otten that I very much agree with him on the importance of the sector. I also think that what you then do in the direction of the sector should be proportionate. However, I would also like to say here in this debate that what is in the letter, which many Members of Parliament have received and which deals with the fact that, in the eyes of the sector, the supervisory costs are really not recognised by the supervisor, De Nederlandsche Bank. They will also come out from De Nederlandsche Bank with an estimate of what these costs will look like, but that will be significantly lower than the estimate in the letter of the representatives of interest, which the MPs received. So I think that pain is really a lot smaller than was suggested in that letter. Furthermore, Otten and I agree very quickly, I think, there are of course a lot of reasons why companies start, become active and stay in a country. That goes far beyond just what cost you may or may not have on your neck in the field of cryptocurrency through this type of bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u59	Mr President, a brief follow-up question. I do not yet hear a solution for how this employment is protected. But a fundamental question: why do you deviate from the Council of State Advice, which clearly states that there is a requirement for registration on the basis of the directive, and not a requirement for authorisation? That is said very clearly by the Council of State; I even read it. What is the reason for you to deviate from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u60	No, for the record, we have taken the advice of the Council of State. All right, it's not for me to interrupt in the first term of the Chamber, but this is really a misunderstanding. And by the way, other members of your Chamber were critical of that. It is really a misunderstanding that the cabinet would not have listened to the Council of State there. The cabinet simply fully accepted that particular point of the Council of State. It initially planned something different, but listened to the Council of State, because the Council of State was critical of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u61	Then that misunderstanding, I guess, is out of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u62	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u63	Mr Van Apeldoorn has a brief interruption and I suggest that we let the Minister make a few meters, because we also have a lot of votes and a number of people still have to travel a long way tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u64	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. Let me get this straight. The Minister says that the assessment in the letters made by the sector and received from the Chamber is incorrect. I understand that the source from which the sector quotes DNB itself is, but there may be different figures going round and certain figures don't add up. Then I would like to hear from the Minister what, according to his estimate, the costs are. Well, that doesn't make any sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u65	I will come up with the exact moment in the second term, but as I understand it, the regulator comes up with its own assessment and it is significantly lower than the estimate indicated by the interest group. Moreover, this style figure is not entirely unique, namely that an interest group for a parliamentary debate assesses the costs higher than the supervisor. I'm putting it very carefully now. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the non-customial wallets and how I'm going to monitor them. Honestly: that's kind of tricky, because it's often about physical wallets. Think of hard drives and transactions that take place between two individuals, without another party being directly in between. That's a point of attention for the FATF. Next autumn the newly adopted crypto standards will be evaluated again. Then this specific point of Van Apeldoorn is also referred to. I can then return to the Chamber. I can't say much more about it right now. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether I consider the division between the law itself and the AMvB desirable or undesirable. For the record, the design of that AMvB was publicly consulted at the end of September until the end of October 2019. This was then submitted to the Council of State for an opinion. I do not share the view that the detailed rules would substantially change the legislative proposal. Mr Esser asked for enforcement. DNB has regular contact with the sector. Together with DNB, we will have to continue to test the durability. Again it is a bit terra incognita. On the website of DNB, and also in the conversations with DNB with the sector, there is a very specific mention of what the relevant developments are and how the registration process works. The sector is on top of that itself. See also the letter received by the Chamber. We will continue to follow that. Mr Esser also asked about the mood of the sector. That's always hard to estimate. I think that many entrepreneurs, especially in the beginning, often think that less regulation is better. At the same time, I also speak in a wide range of sectors of business that say: regulation can also simply help to ensure that we do business in a clean and fair manner, and that is also good for the reputation of the sector. I hope we can achieve that. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the burden on the small crypto institutions. I think I just answered that, including through his interruption. I have appointed the question on the article, as well as the question on the €34.000. I'll be at the Reference Portal. Mrs Karimi asked whether the guarantees in the law are sufficient, how we can prevent the threshold for submitting applications from being lowered and how we can maintain it. For the record, data can only be requested if there is a legal basis for this. That is, of course, a very important starting point. If that then leads to more enquiries, then they will also have to take place, on the basis of the same adequate legal basis. If it isn't, there's just no title for it. A set of safeguards, such as, for example, the public prosecutor's test when requested by the investigation, the judicial test and the audit, should ensure that that basis is adequately reviewed. In the light of the premium affair, Ms. Sent asked how the Tax Office prevents people from being wrongly accused. That's a fair question. This plays a broader role within the Tax Administration and since that affair it has been a major issue of attention. For the record, in order to prevent fraud, the Tax Administration only pays returns and supplements to the bank account number in the name of the rightholder. So if it can't be verified that the holder of a bank account is the same person as the rightholder, then payout doesn't take place at all. I have seen this almost in person when we tried to transfer money from the allowances to 183 parents before Christmas. Then I literally wanted to see: is the name right with the account number? That's when I saw it going this way. So I understand her broader observation, but I don't think that's an immediate problem here. Ms Sent also asked about the ICT infrastructure of the Tax Administration. To what extent has it been set up for the large number of requests via the referral portal? Of course, we invested heavily in IT in the Tax Administration last year. It is reasonable that we should continue to do so. I would add immediately that the ICT problems of the Tax Administration are not yet over, but we do not have the impression that there is a particular problem here. Then I guess I answered the first-term questions all or almost all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u66	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I think it has become very clear that we really must be over any kind of naivety. The Minister's estimate is that this amounts to between 15 and 20 billion per year. This means that everything must be done to combat this multi-headed monster. The Minister has my group on his side. I understand the Minister's commitment as follows, and I hope he can confirm that. At the next update we get, he makes it clear how he translates that holistic approach, as he called it, into legislation, people and expertise; everything necessary to fight and hopefully win. I am also very specific about action number 15 of the FATF. You explicitly asked me what that is. It is a matter of ensuring that financial institutions and countries carry out risk analysis and take decisions on the basis of new products and new channels in advance. That is my first point. Then there is my second point. The Minister spoke about the shadow side of the free movement of capital in the EU. It stressed the need for European cooperation in the fight against money laundering and in the fight against terrorism. We wholeheartedly support him in this, but the same is true of tax avoidance. We do not see this Minister running so fast when it comes to European cooperation in this area. I also asked what is really going on with the investigation that would be carried out on the occasion of the motion adopted in the House of Representatives. I would like to hear a reply from the Minister in the second term. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that my group will support these two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u68	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. Then I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the pleasant and careful answer of our questions. I am glad that he agrees with us that money laundering is an incredibly big problem and that it requires permanent attention from the cabinet. I would like to pass by our points and say what I understood from the Minister's answers. We have asked about the deadline for the implementation of the further requirements in the Netherlands. Mrs Karimi also questioned the Minister in an interruption. I still wonder whether it is possible to make the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force in addition to the current implementation of the directive, indicating what has not been adopted and why not, and at what time we may be implementing it in the Netherlands. It would be useful for us to get an overview of this for the future. We have also drawn attention to the government's commitment to the fight against money laundering. The minister has indicated that the government has started to run faster. It is a marathon and not a sprint, and fortunately we have a good condition here to follow the government well. I have considered the use of banks in the fight against money laundering. This is the subject of a very nice report which, thanks to all the other spokesmen, has been increasingly embellished. That is why our expectations are very high. We expect this to give us a better picture of the progress that is being made. We welcome the Minister's commitment to proactively inform us about this. We have drawn attention to the infrastructure of the Tax Administration and we are pleased that it has been well invested and that other problems in the Tax Administration are unlikely to play a role here. We will certainly continue to follow that closely. I, like Mrs Karimi, have missed an answer to the question about the motion and the intermediate position in the relationship between money laundering and tax avoidance. We are eagerly looking forward to what is being shared with us by the Minister of Justice and Security about the relationship between money laundering and undermining. And I regret the incorrect impression given to the Minister that the PvdA is against higher penalties. Finally, the method of payment, as well as the family member with whom messages are made, changes. But perhaps we should have the debate on this with the Minister for Emancipation. I wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom and health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Money laundering is a major problem and must be combated. We were convinced of this before this debate. But the question is how big the problem is with regard to cryptocurrency. I asked a specific question about that. The Minister is still unable to answer this question. He refers to a number of investigations, which will undoubtedly have been thorough. But he cannot mention percentages, nor can he mention bandwidth. I find that somewhat disappointing, because it is important for us to have a closer look at this in order to be able to assess the proportionality of the legislative proposal. I was wondering if maybe there's some kind of investigation going on at the state's attorney's office or the FIOD that might give us more insight into this. Perhaps the Minister could come back to that in the second term. Proportionality also depends on the problem of costs, or at least the problem of high administrative burdens experienced by the sector. Just a factual question: what are the actual costs? The Minister suggests that the €34,000 I mentioned is far too high. According to the sector, this is based on a recent report, ZBO budget, by De Nederlandsche Bank. This is a sum of 1.7 million divided by the number of institutions. That is how they got that figure. I'd like to hear from the Minister if that's not the case. Finally, there is the question of effectiveness. I asked the question about the non-customian wallets. The Minister replied, but he also said that there is a lot going on in the dark web when it comes to the use of virtual currency by criminals. I'm sure you do. Then I asked the Minister what this legislation, this bill, has to do with it. The Minister's answer was: well, I think this has something to do with it. But then, in the Minister's further speech, I did not hear clearly what the relationship is. I would like to hear a little more about this in the second term, because that has not become clear to me. Finally, Mr President, appreciate the fact that the Minister has expressed appreciation in general for the fintech sector and also for innovations such as the virtual currency, and that it is indeed not being put in the criminal corner. It is a legitimate sector. Such practices can occur in all sectors, and they must be combated, as all crime must always be combated, if necessary with high penalties, including with regard to the SP, but they must be effective. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u73	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his answers to the questions of the Christian Union Group. That has clarified what is necessary. We are also looking back on a pleasant and necessary debate. We also welcome the Minister's substantive statement on the role of cryptocurrency in our economy and society. That has certainly clarified a number of things. Thank you for that! I would like to return very briefly to three answers. The first concerns the internal economy of knowledge. My group is still a little concerned that the department of the Minister's staff is somewhat poor against the enormous scale of the money laundering problem. I also know that there are a lot of other organisations in the external knowledge system that are also doing very noble work, but the team seems to us a bit on the tight side. But the minister was smart enough and wise enough to admit to periodically evaluating the state of his department's human commitment to the fight against criminal money launderers, and above all to win that fight. The developments are going very fast. This requires a government that is equipped to engage fully in the fight. The second point is learning from each other in Europe. Mr Karimi said a beautiful sentence that resonates with me: criminals know no boundaries. That's almost a truth like a cow, but hugely important. This also means ensuring that we, as European countries, learn from each other when it comes to the use of policies, policies, the effectiveness of policies and so on. The Minister himself gave very interesting examples from Italy, or all countries, in their fight against money laundering. There are interesting things that we might also be able to use. I would like to call on the Minister, together with his European colleagues, to work hard to share experiences with anti-money laundering measures. We look forward to that, too. It makes the policy stronger and it also makes the dossier much stronger. We also welcome the Minister's commitment to involve the Fintech start-ups in his and our fight against the negative criminal excesses of using crypto currencies. I think that would send out a very positive signal to that world, which is at risk of getting into the wrong corner if we listen to tonight's debate. But we can use them very well, I also think they find that very interesting by giving them a prominent place in the Minister's own policy. I would like to see a concrete plan of attack in the story you are going to send to Mr Sent this evening. I hope that this commitment could also be given a place in it. Mr President, I shall conclude. This debate once again highlights the importance of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, against the sneaking link between the upper and the underworld, which has a devastating effect on our economy and society. The Christian Union Group also welcomes the proactive line taken by the Minister and by the Netherlands in this grim dossier. Above all, we need to hold on to that line and build on it. I will advise my group to agree to both legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Ceramics is also beautiful, but it concerns Senator Karimi. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u75	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I'd like to come back to a few things. The Minister said that he had indeed followed the advice of the Council of State to establish a registration system rather than a licensing system. But that's a word game. Because it's a recording system with all kinds of tests built in there. That's not a registration system, it's a disguised licensing system. I just sent this information to the Minister. The European Fifth Anti-Money Laundering Directive imposes a registration obligation on the providers of cryptochange services and does not require authorisation. crypto service providers are not financial companies and are not covered by the Wft. crypto service providers are covered by the Wwft as a result of this Directive. This means that, like for example car dealers, art dealers or notaries, they have to conduct customer research and report unusual transactions to the FIU. The Dutch legislator now intends to implement this European Directive in such a way that there may be a disguised licensing regime, subject to prior scrutiny, more requirements than those provided for under the European Directive, and in which these requirements are similar to those imposed on financial companies under the Wft. As far as our group is concerned, it is therefore not easy to understand that the Minister is talking about low-policy implementation of the obligation to register and pretends that the proposal submitted to the House of Representatives does not deviate from the directive. In our group's view, this is an incorrect presentation. In addition, Mr Van Apeldoorn has already referred to it: DNB also mentions 1.7 million in costs. That is why we are tabling a motion. I'll read to her myself. The President shall: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in order to maintain Dutch employment in the innovative Dutch blockchain and crypto sectors, it is essential to relieve SMEs as much as possible of unnecessary and unnecessary administrative practices that hamper innovation;]] [[noting that the Article 23e initially consulted with the market (i.e. without the additions later made by the Ministry of Finance to the opinion of DNB) constituted a legitimate, appropriate and proportionate interpretation of the obligation under the amendment of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive (AMLD5), which is also well enforceable;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Council of State of 3 June 2019 (W06.19.0080/III),]] [[calls on the Government to consult with DNB and the sector before the law enters into force in order to ensure in advance that direct supervision and compliance costs are proportionate and to ensure that actual enforcement under the law is limited to what is strictly necessary under the European Directive, bearing in mind the opinion of the Council of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35245-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for the comments made in the second term. I'm going to do them point-by-point and person-by-person for a short time. Mrs. Karimi asked for the next update. For the record, next year. I hope to make this even more beautiful: there will be a whole piece of Grapperhaus before the summer recess. Many of the things we've discussed with each other will come at a later time. I'm thinking about about about a month or nine from now. So there really is still a lot of work coming from the cabinet to parliament before the end of this year. For the sake of completeness, I would like to mention this once more. Mr. Chairman. In my view, there was one more question that Mrs Karimi and Mrs Sent also recalled, namely the intermediate position of the investigation into the overlap of money laundering and tax avoidance capital flows. I think that's what they both asked for. That was a December motion last year. This is simply taken into account in the regular policy cycle on money laundering. I have no new or earlier insight into this, but this subject is well known. We also periodically look at the biggest money laundering risks. The WODC also carries out those analyses. The new national risk analysis is currently under way. First of all, I would like to look at the extent to which this relates to tax avoidance. If that analysis does not provide sufficient insight, we will take that into account in an update. But I can't say any more about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u77	Do I understand why you are saying that you are not actually carrying out the motion at all and that there will be no separate investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u78	No, I think I've argued almost the opposite. I have indicated that we are taking this motion and that we are looking periodically at the main risks in the Netherlands in the national risk analysis anyway. The WODC has almost completed an analysis. It is in itself obvious to see if the WODC answers this question. But we also know the sensitivity about what we still park on the sign of the WODC. I think it is wise that we should first get the information and then see if, in the cabinet's view, it gives a sufficiently specific answer to the motion. I hope so, but if it isn't, we're gonna have to do some extras.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u79	Then my first conclusion is correct. You do not conduct a separate investigation, which the motion does ask for, but you look at the flow of capital in your regular risk analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u80	No, it's really more specific. See also the previous reports of the WODC. This problem has often been addressed. I think it's obvious, too, because who needs to carry out such an investigation? The Ministry of Finance is much less well equipped for this than, for example, the WODC. Now that the WODC has almost finished its analysis, I think it is obvious to look at the conclusions and not to start messing around under the hood. If the conclusions are there, we will see if they give sufficient insight into the logic and the ruling as laid down by the cabinet in that motion. I have a cautious hope that that is the case. Then you may ask, from the cabinet side or from the side of the Second or the First Chamber, whether there should be additional meat on the bones following that motion. Then, of course, we will fully and immediately put that question back to the WODC. But I think that is a prudent course of action, also because of the fact that the WODC is, of course, the window for carrying out this kind of research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u81	Mrs. Karimi, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u82	I am actually concluding that the urgency of me and my group is greater than the Minister's approach suggests. I am actually sorry to see that at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u83	I don't quite understand the misunderstanding either. Since 2017 this has been taken into account in those analyses of the WODC. There's gonna be another report soon. That motion is from December. To give some perspective: there are also people here in the room who have asked me to start an investigation into the cost of care at my very first Financial Reviews. That's gonna take a couple of months. It is not at the WODC, but among other things at the WRR. So we've waited two and a half to three years for that. That is not a reproach, because it is an important and comprehensive investigation. But this motion is from December. The WODC was already busy and it will soon come up with an answer. If that answer is not satisfactory, the cabinet will immediately request that more meat be added here. So I am always very open to the need of Members of Parliament to do it even faster, but I honestly think that this is really reasonable. It has, as at all in the area of tax avoidance, the particular attention of the cabinet. Now that Mrs Karimi and I have eliminated this misunderstanding, I hope, I have arrived at Mrs Sent. I thank her for her broad support. I understand her in such a way that she actually says: can we not put the FATF next to the bill again and conclude what has and has not been taken over? By the way, by far the most has been taken over. And in a year's time, can we see which pieces of it you might want to convert? I want to promise her we'll do that search-the-difference analysis for the next summer. That is also the logical thing, because we are having this debate now. The judgment or parts of it lend themselves to be included in a new law, in a law of sweeping or whatever, in a year's time, I do not want to give it now. Because that fits exactly into what we discussed earlier, namely in that broader analysis and broader intermediate position. I'd like to do it that way. I see Mrs. Sent nodding. In order to reassure her, I tell her that I am often in the business of shopping. By the way, in my father's defense: he also had to go to the supermarket with me on Saturday morning. So there's no misunderstanding about that. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked again about the percentage. If the D.A. or the FIOD does have such a percentage, I will share it with him immediately. I also agree with him that it is always relevant to have such percentages. Because of course I also have an above average interest in numbers and data. But this is what I can make of it right now. Mr Van Apeldoorn said: the minister is talking about the darkweb; but if cryptos are mainly paid there, why are cryptos a problem at all? That's a specialization of the misery we observe with cryptos. Again, and that is the profit of this debate: we have all said once again that we are very much in favour of financial innovation at the highest level. All sorts of things about digital money and cryptocurrency and everything new technology offers us can help society enormously. But then the observation is also that there is a shadow side to that. And it's in cryptos, too, with those you wish they couldn't use it. These are organized criminals who do so, for example, to launder drug money. They then use that money again on the regular internet. And they use that money on the dark web, too. So in that order, I meant to say it. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to point out to Mr Van Apeldoorn about the 1.7 million. That 1.7 million is right. But for the record, this 1.7 million is for the first year, where it is expected that this type of supervision costs will be linked to start-up costs, including for the supervisor himself. So you can't easily share the 1.7 on the number of companies, because then you come out higher than reasonable. Moreover, the 1.7 is not under discussion. In my opinion, Mr Van Apeldoorn picked it out of a DNB report himself. But for the summer, I believe that even before 1 June, there is also the exact sum. I will share that with the Chamber myself, so that there is no misunderstanding. That will be proportional and that will really be much lower than that €34.000. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Ester very much for my comments and for his constant concern for the staffing of the Ministry of Finance. I don't think he's asked me any more questions. That brings me to Mr Otten. With regard to the obligation to register, I really must insist that things are different from what Mr Otten says. It's just different whether you have a registration obligation or if you have a licence obligation. You register and a permit is granted to you. That's just really different. The bar is also on a different level. The proof of this could also be found in this debate, because of course some of the members were also critical of the cabinet because we dropped the licence requirement. But that was because we wanted to take the advice of the Council of State seriously. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm a long way. I should like to ask the messenger if I can see Mr Otten's motion under letter F. My suspicion was that it went well in the first part of the preamble, but that the cart ran off the rails afterwards. But before I do that... Oh, it's kind of a long motion, too. My instincts are right. The first part of the preamble, the recital that you naturally do not want to do what is unnecessary, is completely clear. But after that, it's gonna go wrong. Mr Otten says in his motion that this would not really be proportionate and that it would not bear with the European directive either. Of course, that cannot be the case. By the way, at the end of his motion for a resolution, I was right to say that we listened very carefully to the Council of State, to the sadness of some Members of your Chamber. That has made us opting for the expiry of the licensing obligation. So I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u84	I don't see where the cart runs from the tracks at all, but the crypto cart runs off the rails in the Netherlands. That is what you are going to facilitate with this legislation, because it is now in fact being overturned. I would once again urge you to think again about it. That may not be the right time, Mr President, but I would like to put my motion under letter F to the vote this evening. But perhaps we can settle that later on in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u85	I will ask in an order proposal later whether anyone needs time until next week or whether this can be done immediately. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u86	I, together with Mr Otten, have stressed the importance of the sector. In my view, I gave the ruling on behalf of the cabinet on the motion. That brings me to the end of my second term. Thank you and your members very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u87	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u88	I have come to deal with both legislative proposals. First of all, I would like to raise Mr Otten's point of order on his motion for a resolution under F (35245) on the amendment of the fourth Anti-money laundering directive. As we discussed this afternoon, the motions will in principle be put to the vote next week, so that the groups have time to prepare. Mr Otten would like to propose that his motion be put to the vote this evening. We've already discussed that about the Kox motion. Can the House accept Mr Otten's proposal? First, I'm gonna look around and nod and no shake. Is there anyone who says his group needs more time? Go ahead, Mr. Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. When I look at the voting list, the legislation on this dossier number will be put to the vote next week. Right? There are only four on the voting list, but I do not think this one is included. But maybe I'm wrong. That would mean it could still be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u90	We're going to vote tonight on five legislative proposals and one motion. Mr Otten would also like to have put his motion to the vote. The question is whether the House can agree to vote on Mr Otten's motion this evening, as was already decided on the Kox motion. I have here in my playbook that we are voting on five legislative proposals tonight. We're gonna suspend now, because I understand something's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-10.u91	The riddle is solved. The two legislative proposals we have just discussed with the Minister of Finance are not yet on the list, because I have to ask if we are going to vote on them first. So I shall return to Mr Otten's motion for a resolution: can it at least be put to the vote this evening? I'll see if anyone in the room can resist that. That is not the case. Then Mr Otten's proposal of order will receive broad support and will be voted on this evening at least. Then I will deal with both legislative proposals. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the 35245 bill? That is the case; I see Mrs Karimi. Then I suggest that we vote on this bill in a moment, which will now also be on the voting list. Would any of the members like to vote on the 35238 bill, the Banking Data Reference Portal Act? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on that bill in a moment. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes now. I'll see if that's enough for the groups and then... Ten minutes, I hear now. We'll suspend for ten minutes, then we'll vote on five legislative proposals and two motions.
