ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u1	Then we will proceed immediately with the next VSO, a brief motion debate following a written discussion on a malfunction in the apprenticeship tracking system. I have spoken and it is confirmed that Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks is the first speaker. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I was visiting a graduation ceremony at Kristallis, a school for secondary special education in Nijmegen before the summer. I was incredibly impressed that these students had graduated despite everything that had happened, despite the difficult circumstances they were sometimes in and despite the corona crisis. But it has also become clear to us in the House of Representatives in recent months that it is far from going well everywhere. We also note that the examination in special education often does not correspond sufficiently to the needs and needs of pupils and the way they learn. We are going to talk about that again, but I also have a motion on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that most pupils in the secondary special education are taking exams through the state examination;]] [[Considering that in recent months there have been many signals that the way of examinating in the vso does not fit well with the experiences, abilities and needs of the vso students;]] [[noting that the Minister indicated that there was no research available into the connection of state examinations with the capacities and experience of the candidates;]] [[calls on the government to carry out independent research into the way examinations are taken in the vso and to look at the content of the examinations, the manner in which they are taken, the process surrounding them and whether the examinations do fit the student's experience,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kwint and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31289-430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u3	I give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. Before I go into that, this was a VSO in which I was also put on the wrong foot when I saw the title on the agenda. This was much wider than just a failure in the apprenticeship follow-up system. That has indeed been the subject of an hour's examination. Luckily, that's solved. But this includes a number of major topics. Think about the school exams, the exam organisation, the discussions about VMBO Maastricht and the progress there, the Calvin College. Well, I think you all remember that those were indeed big issues. I would like to thank the Chamber for having had a good discussion on this in writing despite the time of Corona. We have not spoken about it orally, but we have had good discussions on this in writing. It's nice that we can finish this way. Then there's one motion left. This is also a subject on which we also discussed orally during the corona period, namely the vso-exams. The corona situation has indeed put the spotlight on this. I have also noted that it is very important that we discuss this separately. That's what I'm preparing. But apart from that, it's also good to do a good examination of the exams. You know that the CvTE must take care of this, also from the point of view of its responsibility. But I do understand this motion. You would also like that if that research is carried out, to be carried out independently. I also understand that that is the intention. The CvTE is therefore responsible for carrying out an investigation, but it is carried out independently. There are all the elements you mention here. Knowing that, I can make the motion in part no. 430 Judgment Room. It is also an understatement of the fact that we consider this important with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Van Meenen...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u6	It is not my motion, of course, but I am under it, Mr President. Is it at least possible to know the research assignment? Because somehow it feels a bit special that the CvTE, the self-executor of the exams, instructs to conduct independent research. I imagine it would be a comforting idea to know the assignment. Is it possible to share it with the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u7	First of all, of course, it is their primary responsibility to investigate the transactions they carry out. I don't think you're gonna take an ounce off that either. It is indeed important to do so independently, also in view of the discussions that have taken place. So that was the intention. I'll see if it's possible for the research assignment to go to you. I'll inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u8	Well, very briefly, Mr President, to confirm that. It is of course true that the CvTE's operation has actually received quite a bit of criticism. In my view, that should therefore be part of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u9	If something is assessed independently, including the subjects mentioned in the motion, then there will also be independent information and an independent part about what has happened. That is also what we need to do, also to make sure that we are well prepared for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the VSO Disruption Apprenticeship Tracking System.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-9.u11	The vote on the motion tabled will take place on Tuesday. At 1.15 p.m., the Chamber will continue the debate on the European Summit on 1 and 2 October 2020. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
