ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. Today we begin with Mr Gijs van Dijk's question on behalf of the PvdA to the Minister of Finance about the role of ING in Russian mirror trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to excellent research by Het Financieele Dagblad, Investico and Trouw we are talking about a money laundering scandal again today. Billions of Russian money being illegally moved to the West, from Russian roubles to euros and dollars via many intermediate routes. Like the well-known oligarch Roman Abramovich, an ally of Putin, who deposits 1 billion into a Dutch bank. As Trouw writes it strikingly: it is the question of 1 billion, why is Abramovich banker at ING in the Netherlands? And here we are again, again the Netherlands plays a prominent role through a Dutch bank. This time ING has already paid a huge fine of 775 million euros. How is that possible? How could these transactions continue, even after the original fine in 2016? A large spider in the web was ING's Polish daughter. We've seen this before at ABN AMRO and Rabobank. Is there good enough supervision of what happens to daughters in other countries and do banks have enough control over this? What needs to be done to increase this control of the growing mirror trade? These mirror transactions are widespread. Then why don't the bells ring? What could be a legitimate reason for these transactions? Why do AFM and DNB point to each other and who is the competent supervisor? Mr. Chairman. Corruption and money laundering is one of the major problems of our time. The United Kingdom has been a key player for years. We see it in countries like Cyprus, but unfortunately we also see it in the Netherlands, a turntable of criminal money. What is the Netherlands doing internationally about this battle? How do we prevent Russian money from threatening our freedom? Suspect trafficking through a Polish daughter of ING. A billion from a friend of Putin's in the Dutch ING account. How did the minister actually wake up this morning and what is he going to do? Because it's about the $1 billion demand. Why is Abramovich banking at ING in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr President, thank you, and you will be pleased to have all the documents I need with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u5	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk touched on a very valid point with his questions. As I have often mentioned in the Committee on Finance, we have a very serious problem in the Netherlands and in Europe with regard to money laundering. We have this problem because, in the end, the problem of money laundering is also about how organized crime manages to eat the upper world from the underworld. The good news is that I think we see this much more clearly than a few years ago and that we have now come up with a number of measures which will be successful and are already sorting some of them. But you shouldn't be naive. It's gonna take a lot more than that. Following on from one of Mr Van Dijk's questions, that is precisely why I have repeatedly called for this to be done at European level. It is a Dutch problem, but it would be an illusion to think that it does not exist in other Member States. These efforts have been successful in that they have been accepted by the Commission and will not ultimately be monitored at European level at the speed of light. In reply to Mr Van Dijk's questions, I would like to remind him that we have to count on each other that the more we do and the better we look, we will see these things more. This is specifically about a relatively old case. It is good to mention that it is already playing in the period before ING received this fine in the Netherlands but the more steps we and the supervisors are going to lift up and the more the banks themselves do so there is really a change of scenery the more of these things we will not be able to find. That will also be the reality in the coming period. Then there is the final point in response to Mr Van Dijk's questions. He is quite right to ask about the mirror trade, as it is called. I think he is right to ask whether the risks of money laundering in this area are adequately covered. I have therefore already contacted DNB and the AFM. I also asked both supervisors, precisely because of Mr Van Dijk's question, to inform me about it. I say to him, and through him to the whole Chamber, that for the AO Laundering that we will soon have, I will also share with the Chamber those comments and the thoughts of both supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you for these answers from the Minister. I would also like to ask the Minister what exactly he thinks of ING's reaction, which I would like to call almost old school, 'we cannot go into this, this is an individual man, in this case Abramovich, and unfortunately we cannot say anything about it', whereas this does affect society. People worry that they still see these kinds of scandals occur. This is a form of white-collar crime that people in the country don't understand. Because they bank neatly themselves at a bank and think: I am rightly kept to all kinds of rules, but when it comes to such a case, there is a very formal, brief response from ING. Has the Minister contacted ING or is he going to do so and what is he going to say to this bank?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u8	Of course, so I've got you know, Chairman, that when I say "I," sometimes I'm personal, and sometimes my ministry has been contacted with ING. I contacted De Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM. And I also said that I would like to be in touch with the Polish Government on this, because just for the record, how are things going here? This also makes it complicated to do more detailed research in the Netherlands. The Netherlands Bank is not competent here. The European Central Bank is not competent here. It is the Polish regulator who has to come here with information. So, of course, we've been in touch about that. My observation is that, with everything that has happened in this large money laundering business and with the attention that has rightly been paid in the political arena, ING and also wider in the banking landscape, we have seen that politics and society really mean it, so that something really needs to be done about this problem, first and foremost by those very large banks. As far as the specific reaction is concerned, I cannot fully understand what information one can and may share. So maybe that's an explanation, but then I'm gonna be doing NIVEA for a while, as the Prime Minister calls it, not filling in for someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u9	But a fact is that if we have to believe the message, because it is 1 billion, it will go on longer than in 2016. There is a fine for ING in the period until 1 January 2017, but this case goes on a little longer. Is there any reason for the Minister that he will not do so himself in order to set up the authorities to investigate this matter further? Because it shouldn't be the case that something turns out to be playing at ING which is not covered by this fine and then we will still have to appeal to this bank. It is about what the Minister says: confidence in the Dutch banks has got quite a pinch. Does he now expect the Dutch banks to respond to this type of case, but with a greater sense of feeling, to resolve all cases after 2016 and also to pay a fine if necessary? Because that is also what the banks are obliged to do to all those decent taxpayers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u10	It is an understandable question, but it is important to really separate a number of things. Who is concerned with the possible payment of a fine after a research process? We all remember the discussion we had here in the Chamber in that money-laundering business. That's not the Ministry, that's the Ministry, at least in the case of ING's apotheosis, not the DNB either. The DNB has previously given clues, has previously sanctioned, but in the end it has been the Public Prosecutor's Office. That was the result of the so-called transaction. Here too, it is obvious that I address institutions and that I have contact with De Nederlandsche Bank about this, but it is not the case that the Ministry has the power either to issue fines or to investigate. Second point. My perception is now.... but this is information that I really have from the press... that this really plays in the longer past. I also make my observation, so no guarantee that from now on it will all be rose scent and moonshine, that the big banks in the Netherlands are well aware that it really has to be different with regard to money laundering, and that that is also true with regard to this big bank. I would like to make this point again: we are going to find more misery in the past over the next few months and years with regard to money laundering, because we are lifting up more steps and more is coming out. We will have this debate in different forms more often than not, is my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. Then I have Mr Alkaya, Mr Bruins, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van der Linde for an interruption. First, Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u12	This kind of rogue practices of bankers and financial traders are at least as disruptive to society as other types of crime. The difference is that individual bankers seem to get away with it every time. My only question to the Minister today is therefore: has there been an investigation into individual bankers in this case and does he share the view that otherwise this should be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u13	If research had been carried out, it would probably not be known to me. We have also discussed this with each other before: at the time of a criminal trial, it is only at the very end of the proceedings, and by that I mean really in the last 48 hours before anything gets out in the public eye that the Ministry of Finance is informed of this. The reason is that my predecessor has sometimes indicated to the prosecution and others that it would be very uncomfortable to have to respond as a minister to something that is already in the press. But unlike, for example, a part of the FIOD, the Ministry of Finance is not known before. That is right in the separation of powers. So I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u15	May I, by the way, congratulate Mr Alkaya on his party's draft list? I have noticed that membership of the permanent finance committee at least leads to a high position on the list in the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u16	Yeah, it's appreciated. It's a nice place, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs. Leijten was number 2, president, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u18	Yeah, we'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u19	I did wonder if this means the more ugly you do to me, the higher the place you get on the list. That would be a wrong kind of incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u20	It is inviting for Mr Bruins, Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u21	I congratulated Mr Alkaya personally this morning. I find it rather uncomfortable that a Polish daughter of ING can do this kind of thing and that is in the Minister's answer: it is not covered by the ECB, it is not covered by DNB, it is covered by the Polish regulator. At the same time, this is a Polish daughter of our ING. Then there is something De Nederlandsche Bank or the Dutch Minister of Finance should be able to do, since it is ultimately under the responsibility of the Dutch mother? What can the Minister say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u22	In fact, I have to refer mainly to my previous answer. It is one of the consequences of the banking landscape that we have, with a relatively high degree of homogeneity in the euro area. But also there is not everything rose scent and moonshine. Dutch banks have daughters where things happen that De Nederlandsche Bank does not automatically have or gets all the information about. That is sometimes uncomfortable and it is precisely the reason why I said at the Ministry that I would like to have contact with you on this matter. Not that I have the illusion that this is changing the world, but I would like to have contact with my Polish colleague on this matter. That's one. Two. I would like to re-appoint it during the Ecofin or eurogroup. Three. I asked De Nederlandsche Bank about this. Four. We have also contacted ING about this. I would like to add that, of course, this is not a problem that we have exclusively since the introduction of the euro or since the steps we have taken in Europe. Of course, this potential problem has been there for as long as we are international banking. So I share the inconvenience, but I think this is about the perspective of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u23	In reply, the Minister said that this problem is not only a problem in the Netherlands, but also a European problem. But, of course, it is also a very international problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u24	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u25	The question is whether the approach reflects that sufficiently. Is the approach sufficiently international? We have a plan of approach in which extra capacity has been chosen, including in the Netherlands. But what is really needed internationally, not only in Europe, and is it not necessary to evaluate and possibly adapt that approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u26	I very much agree with that, of course. There are international bodies. Think of the FIU. Also think about the discussions that are being held on this type of subject, for example by the G20. However, this is still perhaps a classic remark: the difference between the circle of engagement and the circle of influence. In the Netherlands, this influence is relatively high. In Europe, it is already a lot more difficult to see the discussion we are having there about getting off the ground with such a European supervisor, let alone globally. I very much share the point that you would like to do something about this worldwide, but I do not think I would be too happy to say that I would really be delighted if we could take a big step in the Netherlands and also in Europe. That's getting complicated enough. I would add one more sentence: I noticed that those Members in the European Union who have had a similar problem on their bikes have indicated that they agree with us. But there are also quite a few who said: yes, it is annoying for that Dutch bank, but the problem is not so much known to us, so why should we do so? The degree of urgency can therefore also be strengthened in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u27	Of course, this sidewalk has not been scammed by a bank; it has been scammed by awake journalists. I think most Dutch people are a little done with it. Your bank just needs to be honest and safe. They have to do everything they can to get it done. We, as politicians, can make a contribution to this. Last year, in June 2019, this minister presented a plan of action with a lot of publicity. I wonder where those measures are. Where is the exchange of data between banks? Where are the higher sentences? Where are the measures we would take here in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u28	It is a range of measures. To be honest, I am quite content that the European Commission has taken on board the intention of the Netherlands to do something at European level. That's one. Two. The Chamber itself approved the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. That is also an important part. Thirdly, I think that Van der Linde refers in particular to "the cabinet' has also announced a lot, partly on the portfolio of Grapperhaus, partly on my own and partly in between. If I share with the Chamber, or with anyone else, in advance what will soon be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister has the habit of cutting that off the agenda immediately, because someone might try to make a profit in front of it in a public way. I can't do that. I can say in general terms that we are approaching the final stage of serving part of this legislation. Can I put it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u29	I share Mr Van der Linde's frustration. I would like to ask the following question. Besides the plan of action, is it not possible for banks themselves to report to DNB more often when they see strange cases? Is that happening right now? I would like this to be a part of it and that people should just report themselves proactively instead of being caught up by journalists every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u30	That's a fair point. By the way, it is very doubtful whether that will end up on my plate, let alone on the Chamber's board. It is not a fact that information held by the supervisor is shared with me. That only happens in very specific cases. For example, the President of De Nederlandsche Bank and I have been in contact all the way at the end of the ING money laundering case about what it means, what we can do about it and what the appreciation of it is. I am happy to allow Mr Slootweg and your Chamber to give this wording to the banks themselves and to the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. But I do not think that it would be pure if a line were to be drawn, which means that I have information which should then be able to go to the Chamber. By the way, it is important to mention once again that the news report rightly compliments the various media that have come up with information from the FIU in the United States. By the nature of the case, it is not possible to verify it precisely. That, of course, makes it even more complicated, even in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u31	This is, of course, the third time in two years. Something seems to be going wrong structurally. The Minister said, "Please assume that this will happen a number of times." The question is: if the Minister talks... I assume he's in the cash shoe in Amsterdam every now and then. Can he then tell ING that this also radiates to the Netherlands? ING also depicts itself as orange, as a part of which the Netherlands should be proud. Can the Minister, instead of saying "I can't do very much," say: "Do you want to go through this in a good way, because we still have 40 countries where ING is active?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u32	You're right. Of course, there is a continuous dialogue with the banks on this problem. There is also extensive regular consultation between all concerned. The Ministry of Justice and Security, the Ministry of Finance, the relevant sections of the Tax Administration such as the FIOD, the banks themselves, the police. There is regular contact with this whole gremium about how we deal with this problem. That's what's happening to me in real life. As far as that office is concerned, I think Mr Azarkan is referring, for the hundreds of thousands of viewers at home, to the lump, which is a building on the A10, from which ING left a few years ago. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-22-tweedekamer-2.u33	Thank you. It's unbelievable, but everyone or almost everyone has stuck to those 30 seconds. That is an example for many group chairmen, let me say in between.
