ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden, on behalf of the VVD, for his questions to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, who is actually replacing the Minister and whom I would also like to welcome. The questions are about tightening rules for knives. A bit of a curious title, but that's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, thank you. On November 4, 2018, 23-year-old Paul Pluijmert was stabbed out of nowhere on what was supposed to be a cozy night out in Breda. Since then, there have been 15 stabbing incidents in Breda alone. At the end of 2019, 16-year-old Roan from Drachten was stabbed to death by peers, but also in other cities there are often young perpetrators and accomplices to knife violence. For example, the police in Amsterdam only held five more minors as suspects of an armed robbery with the youngest suspect a child of 11 years old. A child of 11 should play with Lego and not walk around with knives. The last amendment to the Circular Arms and Ammunitions Act is now from almost ten years ago. In addition, the stiletto, butterfly and trap knife ban came into the circular. To what extent has this ban now proved effective? I would therefore ask the Minister, through the Secretary of State, to thank her for coming to this Chamber to see how the rules on stabbing weapons can be tightened. What weapons were involved in all these serious incidents of recent times? If there are weapons in there that weren't forbidden, can that list be extended? As a result of the series of incidents, is the Minister prepared to engage with interest groups of arms and ammunition owners, internal and external experts, police representatives, who have also asked for this, representatives of the various ministries concerned, to which the Secretary of State and the Minister of State are of course in constant contact and, above all, with the mayors of the municipalities concerned, such as Haarlemmermeer and Smallingerland, who have also called for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that the stabbing incidents we are increasingly facing are terrible. I fully agree with Mr Van Wijngaarden that it is really hard to believe that a child of 11 years old has been walking around with a knife as a suspect in an armed robbery. It's really horrible. I can also tell you that my colleague, the Minister for Justice and Security, is on top of it, as the Chamber will probably be aware. Mr Van Wijngaarden has asked a number of questions. He spoke about the latest amendment to the circular of the Arms and Ammunitions Act. This circular was modified in 2012. Indeed, stilettos, butterflies and knives were included in the circular for more than 28 cm. I should also point out that the directive for the Public Prosecutor's Office was re-established in 2017, with the amount of the fine and the criminalisation being redrafted and established, and that it can also be heavier than what it says. That's a little ahead of time. The latter amendment therefore concerns the 2012 circular. My colleague, the Minister for Justice and Security, is not so much looking at increasing the number of prohibited knives, which can create a false safety. It may be that you have several knives in it, but someone can also kill someone with a screwdriver or a very sharp sharpened piece of wood. Then you create false safety by including other knives in it, but I do not rule out the possibility of further discussion in consultation. The thoughts of my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, are particularly relevant. I think he is going to go a very good way towards prevention and preventive search. In particular, it is also the responsibility of the triangle to designate an area for preventive search. Then you can take the necessary measures to ensure that you take knives and also make people aware that there is such a possibility, which means that prevention is much better guaranteed. That in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is good that prevention is being used, but the beauty of a ban is, of course, that these things do not come on the market at all, so that they are less easily available. So I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The police and the mayors aren't asking for this for nothing. I do ask why people actually have to walk around the street with knives of 25 centimeters in length. I think you should legally create a title so you can address those people. If you don't forbid it, you don't have a title to address them. So I think that we should indeed be careful of bias, of two ways: we should not say too easily in advance that we are banning it, but we should not say too easily in advance that it is false safety. I think we should watch for that, too. So I really want to ask the Cabinet, through the Secretary of State, to enter into this conversation very seriously and, as far as I am concerned, to send a letter to the Chamber this spring about the outcome of that conversation with those mayors, who are not asking for this for nothing, and with the police, who are not asking for this for nothing either, especially in view of the importance of the victims and their families, victims who, unfortunately too often, are still children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Let's talk about the guns. Of course, we have the weapons in the circular, supplemented in 2012 with the stilettos, the butterfly knives, and the knives over 28 centimeters. In addition, however, the Arms and Ammunition Act provides that the possession, in principle, of all objects which, in view of their nature or the circumstances under which they are found, can reasonably be presumed to be intended to cause or threaten injury to persons, is punishable. However, I would like to make this provision very clear. That's illegal, and it's a criminal offense. The Minister of Justice and Security is in consultation with, among others, mayors and the police. Those conversations are incredibly important. I think that, in particular, there will be a thorough discussion of preventive search. But the Minister is certainly willing to share the results of those talks with your Chamber. I think this is a good suggestion from Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you for that commitment. I do think it is important to note that the circumstances under which you find something determine whether you can confiscate it. But the beauty of a ban is that it cannot be marketed at all. Then the chance of a very dangerous knife circulating in the first place decreases. I would like to pass that on to the cabinet, and I would like to have a little more publicity for the knife ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. The Secretary of State may still respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. I had already understood this recommendation from Mr Van Wijngaarden. However, as I told you, and as I said to Mr Van Wijngaarden, Minister Grapperhaus's commitment is mainly to preventive search. It is about prevention, not just through searching, but also prevention through awareness-raising, behavioural change, youth and youth work, parents and schools. All this to make sure that this terrible behaviour by young people, who are walking around with dangerous knives and are going to stab them, can be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you and thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then proceed with the order of business.
