ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the Law on Restoration Facilities Sint Eustatius, Room Document 35422. Once again, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr Bosman as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an important law that comes before us, because it's about something else. It is about the administration that has been taken over from Saint-Eustatius. I'd like to go back to history. When I was just spokesperson for Kingdom Relations, we went to visit all the islands. Then you know that every island is different. Then you also notice that the culture, the atmosphere and the atmosphere are different. What I found very special is that when we returned from Saint-Eustatius, every member had an idea of the blanket of depression when you come from Saint-Eustatius. That was not so much because of the island, not so much because of the inhabitants, but because of a number of drivers who were full of opposition, who were full of no-positions and actually only looking at the Netherlands reproachfully. I remember Clyde van Putten, who said with his striking voice: I am the government. And then you have the dynamics you're in, where you're actually in constant combat, where you're constantly watching: how do we get this off the ground? And if you looked around on the island, with all the opportunities and potential that that island has, you had to conclude that it didn't get any better for the inhabitants, that the administrative quarrel was only getting worse, deepening, and that the trenches were involved. That is why I am very pleased that this Secretary of State has picked it up and said that we need to intervene in detail here. For the neglect of the task was great, at least we thought it was, and when we started digging deeper, all we could see was that it was even worse than we thought. We could only observe that the basis that you actually need for institutions to run fully in order to run a bit of self-governance was not present, the support of the island council was limited. We found that the quality was sometimes there, but sometimes it wasn't, and sometimes it was also very difficult. We found that the culture was not always there in which officials could form an independent judgment or say no to directors who said from their position: yes, but I am the government. Knowing that, two years later, we are in a position to see that the Netherlands has not succeeded in getting everything right in those two years. And of course, the task neglect was great, but I also look a little at ourselves, at our own responsibility and our own role. Couldn't we have done more here? And most of all, I'm looking at things that we could've done actively. The infrastructure is a recurring fact that we are concerned about. I mention the fact that we are discussing how to build roads, which should not be discussed. Saba's just doing it. That's just where they're gonna build a road. The Dutch architects say it can't be done, and they just do it. The feeling that there is a fuss around it, that there is a need for European procurement or that there are all consequences for the construction of that road is a disappointment. I say this also with regard to water. There was a discussion about the fact that collecting boxes of concrete are no longer of this time and that we are now going to clean up the water pipes and take care of water for everyone. Then you must note that the limitations of the water are such that people can't even decide for themselves how to ration their water, as they used to do with the cisterns. Now the government's just saying, "Oh, man, the crane's closing, you got two hours." I understand that there is now a school closed because there is no water. Then I think: here we drop stings like the Netherlands and here we have to go through very hard. We just need to make sure that water is arranged. How we're gonna do that doesn't matter to me. But it cannot be that we are going to think about money for next year's budget, because the problem is now and acute, and we have to get to work on it. The present bill is important to ensure continuity. That's what the VVD sees. That's what we think is important. It is good that the island council is to be put back into view and position. We wholeheartedly support that. Also the fact that it is going to be a kind of two-stage missile, where we are still disconnecting the administrative part from the island council and there is still a responsibility of the government commissioner to supervise and take the administrative part for his responsibility. That's important. So that support gets this Secretary of State from the VVD. But in this period, we have to take on all the other issues. It can't be that we don't leave the island any better than when we took over. If there is anything important for the future perspective of the people on Saint-Eustatius, it is that we have made the difference. I want to show you, show you that we'd better leave it behind. I want people to understand that if you have a driver who is committed to the people, everyone will be better off. In this way, we can show that the board that we have put down from the Netherlands has given us room for an island council and in the future the directors are going to be working for the Netherlands. That is of the utmost importance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's quite a lot when the regular structure is pushed aside by elections. That's what happened on Saint Eustatius. You only do this when there is gross neglect of tasks, and that was the case; this was the case with Saint-Eustatius. That is why GroenLinks agreed with pain in the heart at the time to take over the direction. Obviously with the aim of ensuring the residents of Statia reliable public administration, accessible public facilities and preferably a return to the normal situation as soon as possible: that the Statians themselves can form a democratic government. Today we are talking about the continuation of the Dutch powers on Saint-Eustatius. Apparently, the situation has not improved sufficiently to leave the administration to the Statians themselves. That's what we read in the papers. That's a big deal. This requires a precise understanding of what needs to be done, why this cannot be left to the statistical authorities and when Saint-Eustatius is able to put his own foot back into it. I understand that the Secretary of State can't indicate that in a minute-by-minute timetable. That's not what I'm asking. But a carte blanche must not be the case on the other hand. Can the Secretary of State once again in the near future, given that there is uncertainty about the possibility of elections due to the corona crisis, as far as possible, concreteise his phase approach? Can the Secretary of State indicate more precisely what the Dutch role is and what responsibilities in the process the Secretary of State can be dealt with? It seems to me a good signal that the Netherlands is also willing to investigate how Caribbean Netherlands can best be supported. I understand that, focusing on Statia, the necessary input has been made by the Committee of Wise Men, the Social Advisory Council and the Central Dialogue. I note that there is very little transparency about the content. Does the Secretary of State consider that there is sufficient communication with the islanders about the progress of the recovery process? As a committee, we wanted to collect the input of Statians on this important subject. Unfortunately, a physical visit cannot continue due to corona, but we do do our best to look up the dialogue via digital means. That is what I expect from the cabinet, but I do not read that in the documents nor in the letters I receive from the Statians myself. I would like to thank our fellow Members, Mrs Kicken and Mrs Diertens, for the work they have done as rapporteurs. As an example, I give the ferry connection. When it came to an affordable supply, it was always stopped until recently because it would be a rough sea. But now it does, to the surprise of the Statians themselves. It is nice that there is an affordable connection now, but if the residents have to read this in the cabinet letters, I wonder to what extent this has been a subject of discussion. Is this not significant for the current approach to the desired and perhaps even necessary dialogue? Mr. Chairman. I want to get a good insight into the Dutch approach; that is clear, I think. In the last few weeks, for example, I have been deeply concerned with the water supply on Saint-Eustatius. The islanders are rationed for their drinking water, especially at a time when personal hygiene is literally vital. From the answers to my written questions, I suggest that the statians will have to cope for a while. Access to clean drinking water is a human right. I think it is serious that the water is being rationed. The solution of the problems is awaiting us and, in the meantime, residents have no alternatives to, for example, their own water storage facilities, for which a policy of discouragement has been pursued recently. Mr Bosman also said it: at the school Gwendoline van Putten the children were sent home because of water shortage. It can't be. I really call on the Secretary of State to show all the creativity that can clarify this emergency. The problem is urgent. I'm suggesting that we have the Charles Doorman nearby. Why can't the crew of the Charles Doorman deliver a few hectolitres of drinking water there? I'm really asking you to speed up. The urgency is here. As far as I'm concerned, we need an emergency facility. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at that. Mr. Chairman. Knowing that structures have been sacrificed for this purpose democratically, the urgency must be felt to bring about transparent, proportionate and rapid structural improvements and then to give the representatives of Saint-Eustatius the reins. Finally, the lessons learned in a broader perspective. GroenLinks has explicitly asked for this, because we often hear about administrative problems in the Caribbean in this room. In the note following the report, the State Secretary states that this will be involved in a wider context. That doesn't really mean much to me. I really want to hear more and more precise about this. What does that process look like? What are the objectives? What are mutual expectations and what is reality? What experience has been gained now? What is the ownership and what is needed to ensure that the islands of the Caribbean Netherlands get a robust and legitimate public administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP. Well, we've seen each other all day today, Mr. Van Raak. So is Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr President, I am here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u8	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u9	And this subject is also close to my heart. "When the minister comes, when the soldiers come, they will be killed and burned in the streets of St. Eustatius." It's Clyde van Putten's words. I don't know if the chairman knows him, but that was the self-proclaimed boss of Saint-Eustatius. It was right after Irma, when the hurricane had destroyed the island. The Netherlands gave the very first emergency aid. The military came to help the people. And that was the reaction of the self-proclaimed political boss of Saint Eustatius. Mr. Chairman. I recall that to think again why we did this again. If the people of Saint-Eustatius want to become independent, then so be it. Then there will be a referendum and that will be a decision of the people. What happened here was a coup: a driver who, along with a handful of accomplices, said "I am the boss on the island" without giving the people any control. It was job neglect, yes, but it was also an end to democracy. It was horrible. We've all struggled with this. Yet all the parties in this Chamber have said: we are going to intervene. What I liked is that with the first contacts we made on the island itself, people were initially really excited and glad that we had intervened. Very different from what I initially expected, people were happy that the Netherlands was going to intervene. There was hope on the island that it would get better. I did notice that over time, as the months and even the years went on, this became less, because the results were still left behind. That wasn't because of the stakes. That wasn't because of the money. This was not because of the number of officials and certainly not because of the number of consultants hired. But it turned out to be very difficult to build such a small island in the Caribbean from the ten towers across the street, from ten ministries where state officials sit. All those government officials, all those consultants, all those advisors: it was hard. It wasn't always easy. People had drinking water, but it had to be improved. When it was improved, people didn't have drinking water. And then a lot of people on the island thought: that's no improvement. I'm not saying nothing's improved. Many things have improved, but if you look at the amount of money that has been thrown into it, how many people have not flown there, how many entrepreneurs, consultants, consultants, and what has not been stowed on that island, then very little has happened. In any case, it teaches a lesson in modesty about the idea that from the rich Netherlands we could manage an island in the Caribbean well. Pfff, that's not easy. That's the first lesson I've ever learned. Mr Bosman also referred to it: if we used to visit Saint-Eustatius, you left with a headache. That had nothing to do with the population, nothing at all. But there was just a handful of drivers that made you sick to death. Then we went to Saba and there it was completely different. There you were also told what did not go well, and there was a lot not going well, because those same ten towers here in The Hague make the same mistakes on Saba as they make on Statia, exactly the same. Yet it was a very different island, in respect, culture and experience. Things were just getting straightened out. If those stupid officials from The Hague didn't get it, they did it themselves. They'd call a MP or they'd try sister or something. Then they tried to arrange something for the people on the island. Such a cultural difference. Now we are two years further and much has improved on Statia, but it is far from in order. It is also necessary for the people themselves to do so as much as possible. Because once again, if I've learned one lesson, it's that we can do anything, but that building Statia was also hard for us. That wasn't easy. As is happening on Saba, the people on Statia will also have to do so a bit by themselves. I wholeheartedly agree with the Secretary of State that elections should be held as soon as possible. I've always insisted on that from the start. Is it true they're in October now? I also very much agree with the model outlined by the Secretary of State: step-by-step work towards that, so look at each time: where are we, where are we, where are we? In the meantime, I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is prepared to do so. What can the island board, what can the island council and what can the delegates do? I do have one problem, or actually two. If we are now going to hold elections in October, in this situation, I can imagine that among a large part of the population there will be the idea of 'we have an island council again, everything is as it was' only by holding elections before the island council, which in reality will not be an island council, because he will not be able to do a lot of things yet. Actually, the island council they're going to elect is going to be some kind of advisory council. Then why don't we call it that? Why don't we say we're going to have elections for an advisory council in October? Because if you're going to choose an island council, the idea is again "oh, yes, there must be politicians in it, the old parties have to get back in it," while I think a lot of people on the island think: I love my island, I also want to take a shot. Does one suffocate, so that the old politicians come back, not the other, so that people who think "I want to mean something to my island" are scared away? I have every confidence in the voters of Saint Eustatius and I have every confidence in free elections. But, yeah, what if the same clique returns? Did you think about that? If you choose the same cabal again after two years, isn't it a signal from the population that they don't want to go with the Netherlands? Those are the questions I have to the Secretary of State right now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that I think it is actually a very complicated bill. We are here in the Netherlands. Although it is sunny at the moment, we are here to decide on something that affects thousands of kilometres away. We didn't get to go there. We have made a brave but never successful attempt to speak or involve as many people as possible by at least picking up the phone, opening a website and e-mailing people. But, of course, that only affects a small part of the population. I see that a poll has been held showing that people actually want a full election and not a step-by-step process as we propose. That makes it very complicated and also a little uncomfortable. However, for the people who are watching through a connection or reading back the report: it has not been unwilling, but sometimes we cannot make things more beautiful than they are because of the construction we have. That does not alter the fact that at the time I fully supported the administrative takeover of Sint-Eustatius by the Netherlands. The island continued to decay. It wasn't integrity. The situation was unworkable, and so did the Statians. At the same time, I am critical of what we have achieved there over the last two years. Especially for a lot of ordinary Statians too little has changed. People don't just have drinking water. They cannot take hygienic measures because they only have a few moments a day. A lot of roads are just being built now. Poverty is incredibly great. There's no perspective. There's actually only one decent employer on the island and he's firing a lot of people right now. I find it very difficult to explain that we have come up with a lot of bombs, but that we have not yet achieved enough results for ordinary people, even though it is part of our Kingdom. It is a municipality of the Netherlands. It's an island that's no bigger than Schiermonnikoog. 3,000 people live there. You'd think we could have made a difference. That does raise a number of questions. An election after two years has now been chosen, while the criteria set by us have not been met. Shouldn't we have said with today's science: "Oh, we'll do the election a little later, and then we'll have full elections?" My second question is a little along the lines of a question that Mr Van Raak of the SP has also asked: does choosing an island council do justice to what it actually is? Shouldn't it be an advisory council like it is now, but with more prestige and more authority? In fact, there was a social advisory council, but I understand that the consultation was constantly cancelled. That's what we hear in phone calls. It seems to be going better now, but a lot of things that we had arranged do not seem to work out in practice as was agreed with each other. In answering our questions, the Secretary of State writes: we do not know until the day of the candidacy whether there is enough enthusiasm for an island council. What if that spirit isn't there? So what are we gonna do? That's a fair question. I understand that politicians don't like questions like dance, and drivers certainly don't, but this is a relevant question. I just want to know. I just want to know if there are enough people running and what kind of people they are. Is there a visual on that? That's what we asked for in our phone calls. Except for two names, that didn't really make any sense. There are no young people standing by. Training for new politicians has not yet begun. We haven't started any training yet. So it is all quite late if you really want to hold elections in October. I am extremely critical of how that is going to take shape. Is October indeed real, or is it going to be more towards March? Mr Van Raak already asked that question. Are there any reasons to believe that that will happen later? Mr. Chairman. I also have concerns about the training, training and vacancies for the administration. If I read it correctly, a large proportion of the vacancies must be filled around the time of the elections. Is that gonna work with each other, or is that gonna cause any problems? You think it's a few vacancies, but given the scale of the island, it can cause problems if those vacancies aren't filled when a new island council is elected. Mr. Chairman. Let me be honest: I'm very critical, but at the same time I think I'm in a kind of catch 22. I cannot say: 'do full elections again and vote against this bill again.' I do not think it will be accepted if we now say to the Statians: we are not doing elections at all. I don't think that's an outcome that does justice to either. That means that I will eventually support it, but I will support it with a little abdominal pain and perhaps with a bit of shame. That's kind of what it is. It has already been said to colleagues: we thought it might be very easy to arrange things on Statia, on St.Eustatius, but yes, Statia is not SimCity. So it turns out to be very complicated, when it should be very simple. That gives me a second final question about the ferry. We have argued very strongly in favour of this. I really believe in it, but I don't know how realistic it is. Transport movements remain limited. Are we prepared to pay extra money for this, so that this ferry actually gets a chance to sail for a long time? Otherwise, it's an empty promise that feeds the distrust again. We're still on with a government commissioner. I understand that the new Commissioner for Government has started well, but of course we can only achieve this if real results are achieved. Mr President, I will conclude. A few centuries ago they called Saint Eustatius, Statia, "the Golden Rock." I do not know if it is always gold and whether we always have a firm faith, but let us at least make sure that we are also getting something of pride about the way in which the Government Commissioner with a look from our part of the Kingdom together with the Statians themselves ensures that we can really be proud of the work that we can put together. Let us make sure that in two years' time we will have about the perspective; or a little longer if that is necessary, we can have genuine, full-fledged elections with politicians who are going for what is important, namely fighting poverty, good infrastructure, a future for their children, in our common interest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you, Mr President. It's an important bill we're dealing with here. I am pleased to be on a committee with members who have built up their experience in this committee for many years. I would also like to endorse the comments they have made and the questions that have been asked. On the other hand, I am glad that I can look at subjects with a little freshness. That's how we complement each other. I would particularly like to talk about the functioning of the island council. Within a democracy, parliament is the highest body. Two years ago, democracy came to an abrupt halt on Saint Eustatius. Let us not forget that democracy has continued at national level, because we have not come to a standstill. But on St.Eustatius himself, the hand brake is mounted on it. I have a number of questions that focus on the functioning of the island council, because I think it should be the heart of democracy. First of all. The progress of democratic development in Statia is made conditional on the development of 12 criteria to achieve good governance. The Secretary of State reports on this to the Chamber on a six-monthly basis. In the meantime, thanks to the good work already mentioned by the rapporteurs Diertens and Kuiks, but also thanks to media reports, we know that these improvements are not so easy to achieve. Since the Netherlands has the administrative steering wheel more firmly through the intervention of government commissioners, heaven has not yet landed on earth in Statia. It all turns out to be a lot more uncomfortable than in the first place. We are talking not only about the twelve administrative measures, but also about roads, the water supply and, above all, about loose goats. So the question arises as to how this is going to work, also because the law stipulates that the return to full democracy depends on the completion of the twelve criteria. How does the Secretary of State, despite the lack of a concrete timetable, keep the momentum going? Would it not be much wiser to make a concrete roadmap, so that monitoring and progress can be much better checked, including for us as a Chamber? What is the role of the island council in drawing up such a roadmap? If we've learned one thing in the last few years, it's that we have to do it together. I think it is important that the island council should at least have an advisory role in this. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The island council is the local parliament. When reading the bill and the explanatory statement, I was wondering: what confidence does the cabinet have in the real creation of a good island council? A great deal of attention has been paid to recruiting and training a new generation of politicians and to how much no one is being put in the way of participating. But when I read all the pieces I get the feeling that there is little confidence in the phenomenon of "island council." The current Social Advisory Council ceases to exist, but there is a new advisory body in place: the Citizen Participation Council. It is set up to provide the government Commissioner with an opportunity to stay in touch with citizens and civil society. Imagine the cabinet saying: the Lower House is nice, but we're also doing a Citizen Participation Council. I do not know what the opinion of the President of the House would be about this. I'm very curious about that, but I won't ask her now. And then there will be a Central Dialogue on Statia: a body to discuss socio-economic issues. We're talking about an island with 4,000 inhabitants. That's gonna be a choice. Can the Secretary of State say again how he looks at this island council as an institution, and what place it should have in a democratic system? There are people who hesitate to participate. Surely it would be a missed opportunity if we did not give that island council the place in the heart of democracy that that council should have? Another point is the support of the island council. It can make a significant contribution to the professional and democratic quality of such an island council, also with a professional start. Article 5 of the bill now stipulates that the island secretary, who is part of the executive authority, will play that role until there is an island griffin. That's a strange figure under state law. It would be similar, for example, to the Secretary-General of the Interior who would become our Registrar and assist the President. I can see the chairman laughing. He's a very special figure. Wouldn't it be much wiser to recruit a quarter of an hour maker/griffer in advance? It will then have to be placed with the public body. But it wouldn't be much wiser to choose a separate figure who is actually preparing things. And of course it is up to the new island council to recruit a clerk, but the preliminary work has already been done. Finally, I come to the role of the National Representative. It will have an important role in completing the process towards full standardisation in the end, particularly in phase four. My first "but" is: at the moment, the National Representative is also the boss of the Dutch Caribbean Office. I see potential conflicts in this human union. How does the Secretary of State view that? And I have a second "but." In the policy response to the ibo and the opinion of the Council of State, the State Secretary expressed the view that the role of the State representative might eventually expire. I also asked questions about this in the written round. The fact that I am asking that question again suggests that I am not entirely satisfied with the answer. But there's always a second chance, and I want to grab it today. So I would also like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this debate, we are talking about the legislative proposal to extend the administrative procedures on Saint-Eustatius and to phase out the Temporary Law on the Neglect of a Task. In the run-up to this debate, I have spoken with a number of people. It was striking in the conversations that people were afraid to hope anymore. And I am also shocked by the apathy, anger and lack of involvement in politics. There is still a long way to go for confidence in politics. Fears and reproaches often block rational thinking. The policy of exclusion of some groups in subordinate positions means that they are no longer able or willing to participate, and undermines society and its own standards of justice. That is why I consider the search for greater involvement of citizens and the re-establishment of its own island council to be very important. Fortunately, there are also some on Statia who have not given up hope and continue to work for the restoration of local democracy. After two years a lot of work has been done, according to the letter sent to the Chamber. Yet I also hear critical sounds. For example, it is often said that communication between the social advisory council was no longer effective at the end. Real contact with the population hasn't gotten off to a good start. There was also a meeting at times when a member of the Advisory Council had to go to work, and could not be present because he simply could not take time off again or always. Townhall meetings were no longer well attended. Or as someone put it: "There's really been investments, in a port, in a tower and another building. But what has been done for ordinary people? The companies on the island determine everything here." The island has a one-sided economy. The Secretary of State states that central dialogues have been organised, including on social conditions and poverty policies. Previously, reference was made to the shortage of water. But how many dialogues have there been and what actions have been deployed, and how is the social minimum adjusted? There is often a reference to stimulating the economy, which raises the standard of living. However, we can see that the market on the island is too small. What is the role of the government in this? The biggest private employer had to fire a lot of people. Tourism development at the time of an island economy of one and a half metres, with an ageing population and the departure of young people to the Netherlands, seems to me to be a very complex task. Can the Secretary of State reflect on this? How does the Secretary of State evaluate the first two years when it comes to involving citizens and citizens? And what are the spearheads of Mr Van Rij and Mrs Francis? They've made a very good start, so I've heard. At least that creates confidence. A positive point is the improvement of education and childcare. The internet has also improved, but is far too expensive. The flow into social housing is problematic. I warmly welcome the training of young adults through online training; in the hospitality sector there may be work for them. I am therefore curious whether the new building plans of government buildings include a modern library, as a centre for personal development, where help and digital courses at all levels can be followed, where in addition to literacy courses, Internet skills are taught. Re-training and further training in the context of a lifetime can then be very close to home. In addition, a modern library can also serve as a community centre for young and old. If my previous motion, which I often repeat, has also been considered, I ask the Secretary of State. Finally, I would like to say something about the schooling of people from the future island council. Training at the time of the term of office is nice, but can the Secretary of State also include in his communication plan how and in what way he can ensure that young people can be more involved in local politics? How can he ensure that they can really make a difference and influence in a positive way? I'm sure the enthusiasm for this involvement will produce very good island council members in the future. By focusing more on the connection with ordinary people, I hope that there will again be a prospect of an island council where the inhabitants feel heard and understood, where people are working on a common interest to make everyday life a little more enjoyable for everyone. Finally, I have one final question for the Secretary of State: if the administrative integrity of the public body is suddenly called into question again and the authority is unable to carry out its task properly, the law states that there is a need for assistance from a minister who has authority, knowledge and a certain distance from the parties involved. This duty of care will then lie with the National Representative in the European Netherlands. This is the job of a so-called King's Commissioner. I believe that Mr Van Dam also referred to this. In this context, there is an explicit reference to Saint Eustatius. Is it intended that this will also apply to the other BES islands in the future? Can the Secretary of State explain this a little bit more? Although fortunately we have colleagues with a huge legal education, I do not have one, but I understood from the law that this is something that still needs some clarity. Mr. Chairman. To achieve the restoration of democracy on Saint Eustatius you need hope. I hope that this point will be reached as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can make it quick. I had all put together nice questions this week, but it turns out that all colleagues, especially in the area of Saint-Eustatius, are much better educated than I am. They all had very nice legal questions, but also questions about water and housing. I have heard a lot of history from Mr Van Raak and also from Mrs Kuik. In any case, I come to Mrs Kuik and to Mrs Diertens, whom I thank for the consultation they have done on behalf of the committee with the people of Saint-Eustatius. Then I'll get to the bill. I think there's a good and solid road map. Those are simply compliments from the PVV for the government. This usually only happens in this committee, not always, but often in this committee. There is a solid roadmap to bring about a return to democracy. I have the following question. That is actually the only question, because most have just been asked. On Bonaire, we have a board agreement. If all four phases of this bill have finally entered into force, have been implemented, and we have returned to the new normal, which is actually the old situation but without the wrong figures on Saint-Eustatius, as we would like, then what are the chances that we will end up there in a situation with an administrative agreement? I would like the Secretary of State to hear or reflect on that. Perhaps it would be positive if it were to come and give it a very good cooperation, but perhaps it could also be negative. I would like to hear more about this from the Secretary of State, but there is a very good chance that we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. Mrs Van der Graaf has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. It was 850 days ago, on 6 February 2018, that the Chamber supported the cabinet's proposal to intervene urgently on Saint-Eustatius due to job neglect and maladministration. That was a far-reaching decision. Thus the island council was dissolved and directors were dismissed from office while the Empire took over the board. We hadn't done that many times. In 1952 it was last in Finsterwolde and now on Sint-Eustatius. The decision was far-reaching, but unfortunately it was not without reason. The report of the Committee of Wise Men sketched a disconcerting picture of the administrative situation on Sint-Eustatius and, more importantly, of the consequences for the people on the island. It was an image of non-compliance with laws, of neglecting tasks, of an administrative culture of discrimination, intimidation, oppression and threat, and of the pursuit of personal power rather than the general interest. And the inhabitants of Saint Eustatius were the victims of this. All this was the reason for the Christian Union and ultimately for the entire Chamber to agree to the decision to intervene on the island. I would also point out that the Committee of Wise Men also addressed the European part of the Netherlands. Here too, cooperation with ministries was unnecessarily complicated. I'm not sure that's really improved in the meantime. Now, 850 days later, there is a new choice. The Council of State pointed out at the time when the law was being handled: look at an intermediate step in which you allow the island council to be fully or partially in office, alongside the government commissioner who would then still be in charge of the day-to-day administration. I see that that is exactly the step the cabinet is proposing and we are discussing today. That step can also count on the support of my group. I do have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. The assignment that was there in 2018 was great. Not only in the administrative organisation a lot had to be done but also the level of facilities on the island was under severe pressure. In the area of administrative organisation, we have now taken really good steps, and my group also welcomes the fact that we are working, for example, on joint housing for public services. However, we read that the coronavirus is changing the order of the population administration and the training programme for civil servants. Our question to the Secretary of State is whether this will lead to changes in the timetable of the follow-up steps that are now planned. In the area of amenities, I am a bit more critical. I realise that the situation was extremely complex, but I find it really very worrying that something such as the supply of drinking water on the island is simply not working at the moment. It is precisely in this crisis in which hygiene and public health are at the forefront that the prospect of a solution at the end of 2020 is simply not acceptable. I ask for real action from the cabinet. I agree with what my fellow Members have already said about this. Mr. Chairman. In dealing with the legislative proposal two years ago, we stated that if we, as the Netherlands, take this step, we will have to achieve visible and tangible results for the inhabitants themselves. The roads were neglected and I see that this is being worked on. I've just stopped at the water supply. The waste disposal system is not functioning properly. We're working on that, too. The houses would also be renovated, but about that we read that only one house has been renovated from the 100. One, you just can't. I'm sure the Secretary of State will understand that. I would therefore like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the timetable and the follow-up when we take this new step. It's a step towards recovery, but it's very gradual. We must make real progress if we are to get the island in order together with the inhabitants there. I hope the Secretary of State really sees that as his mission. I would also like to hear a great deal of commitment in this debate. Mr. Chairman. It is a significant step, but also a very cautious one. In this cautious step and the limited powers conferred on the island council, there is a danger that there will not be enough enthusiasm for running and voting. Mr Kuik and Mr Diertens have also been able to bring this to the fore in the consultation they have done. That's a big concern, including people on the island. I would like to know what the Secretary of State thinks about that. How does he look at people with heart for the island being really motivated to stand up now? How does the Secretary of State intend to prevent it from becoming a disappointment? The island council is not a complete island council with all its powers. How does the Secretary of State intend to prevent that? Mr. Chairman. If this law is passed, my group hopes that the island council elections will be able to continue this year. I would like to draw attention to the letter recently sent by the Minister of the Interior to the House of Representatives. It said that because of the corona measures we should take into account postponement. I ask the Secretary of State, how does he see that for this island? Can the elections take place this autumn or not? Will attention also be paid to reaching out to those residents who are less skilled digitally or who do not have easy access to information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr Van Dam has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u21	I am quite right to hear Mr Van der Graaf draw attention to these developments. It's about those 12 criteria, administratively, but also just about very physical things, like houses. I have said that I have some hesitation in this phase-by-stage development, which does not have a tight agenda either. That also makes control from the Chamber quite difficult. How do you feel about that? You are right to stress that something is really going to happen and something is really going to change. How do you see the process as it is now arranged, being controlled from the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think that Mr Van Dam has made a justified point in that regard. The Council of State also pointed this out in this legislative proposal: make sure that you also include clear criteria in the legislative proposal so that we can test it. We also drew attention to this in the legal process, two years ago. So that's important. I see that with the twelve criteria mentioned, at least the island council elections can continue. They're linked to that. That's in the bill now. I could put that question down. As I have read the documents now, I am assuming that as a Chamber we should be able to follow them well and that the Cabinet reports on them as well. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to comment on this later. But I think it is important to describe as clearly as possible what exactly is being tested to be able to move on to a next step. And it is also important for the Chamber to be able to follow that closely. So I think that our intention is the same. I think that's a fair point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. I understand he needs about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u24	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought I'd start without you, but I can't, because the microphone won't work. Thank you for the opportunity and thanks to Members for their input in the first term. It has already been mentioned by a number of Members that the history we have with the island of Saint-Eustatius is a rich and long one. History has been described in a very beautiful way in the book of historian Willem de Bruin, which Mr Van Raak has shown before: The golden rock. It describes very nicely how in 1776 the first salute was released to the Americans, who were then still a rebellious colony. The Netherlands was the first country to recognise its independence. With this, history was written on Sint-Eustatius, that relatively small island far away from the European Netherlands. We are now in an era in which we are actually writing history again, not only because of what happened two years ago with the intervention and the Temporary Law Task Neglect Saint Eustatius, but also because of the fact that we are now dealing with a corona crisis that has a more than average impact on an island like Saint Eustatius, but also on other islands. If you literally shut the island off from the outside world because you want to protect people from the pandemic, it will inevitably have consequences for how the island can continue to function. Mr. Chairman. The following will be discussed in my introduction. First of all, I will briefly outline the current state of affairs on Saint Eustatius, including the effects of COVID-19 in recent months, also in relation to the questions that have been asked about the elections. Next, I look back at the reason for the administrative intervention, the considerations underlying it and the moment of review in September 2019. Of course, I will deal with the legislative proposal before us, which extends the procedure and also regulates the gradual phasing-out of this procedure. Then I will answer some questions in the following blocks. Firstly, the position of the island council, on which many questions have been asked. Then the elections, the National Representative and a number of other matters, including the drinking water issue. Mr. Chairman. As in the rest of the world, care facilities and society have also been adapted on Saint-Eustatius to minimise the risks of the coronavirus. This has been done on the basis of advice from RIVM and in cooperation with Saba, Bonaire and the countries of the Kingdom. Following this, the public body formed a task force at the beginning of March and scaled up to crisis level 3, using the crisis policy plan that also applies to hurricanes. Catering establishments and non-essential undertakings are temporarily closed and only the main entry points were used under strict conditions. Schools and childcare are now partly open again, as are the various companies in the catering industry, obviously under the conditions we also know here. The medical facilities on Saint-Eustatius are already limited in normal times, so I can tell from experience, let alone that they are equipped on a pandemic of this magnitude. Thanks to money and help from the ministry of VWS, a landlady arrived at Saint-Eustatius at the end of April and an extra doctor and nurse went to the island. So far, two persons have seen COVID-19 on Saint Eustatius. These patients have now recovered and are no longer in quarantine. As far as we know, no more people are infected with the virus at this time. As in the rest of the world, COVID-19 has made a huge change for entrepreneurs on the island. They can currently use an emergency package of aid measures, but, as here in the Netherlands, this will not be sufficient for every company. Even if there's help, it'll never compensate for what you've lost. Within the framework of the COVID-19 measures, the Government Commissioner continuously seeks dialogue with the various stakeholders. You can think of schools, sports organizations, churches, people from the oil terminal. The latter have been discharged, which has a major impact. It also talks with entrepreneurs, trade unions, the hospital, the social council of advice and, of course, civil servants. Since the beginning of the crisis, every evening on St.Eustatius there is a radio broadcast, which can also be followed on Facebook, in which the latest state of affairs around the COVID-19 virus is shared. That's very well received on the island. I say this in response to Mrs Özütok, who asked about transparency. Well, that's a very big good. In communication it is always two-way: sending and receiving and returning. I note that, especially recently as a result of the crisis, there is a great deal of commitment in the field of information provision to keep people informed and to inform and invite them to come up with questions at the time they exist. Is everyone happy? I don't know. You've been investigating this yourself. My assessment and the information I have is that at least every effort is made to inform people as well as possible, with the limitations that were there, because at least in the beginning people had to stay at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u26	I understand that it is complicated at this time to do that transparency and that information transfer, but I hear that it is going through a lot of social media and that there are people on the island who are out of reach or perhaps looking later. Is the Secretary of State aware of this problem and is it high on the list of priorities to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u27	I think the range of social media is at least as large as it is here, for example. People are used to communicating in this way and, for example, much less with written media. That makes it possible to communicate between the authority on Saba and its inhabitants, just in times of crisis, that you saw on Saba very directly, also in view of the scale of the island. This has been properly dealt with now, with the current government Commissioner Marnix van Rij and his deputy. Very intensive. Of course, we can't measure everyone following that. In the beginning, of course, we had to deal with the limitations that people were not allowed to meet. The physical gatherings were impossible. This has also led to the fact that a number of things we were organizing and the preparations for the elections could not continue in the normal way, just like here. Nevertheless, I believe that, especially after the start-up phase to the new way of communicating and meeting, it has now been properly regulated. It may not be optimal, because you also want to get together physically, but well, there are a number of limitations to that. Despite the fact that the crisis has its impact on Saint Eustatius, much good is happening on the island. A lot of good things are happening. Progress is visible in several areas. You have been informed about this through the progress report. For example, the improvement process in financial management has taken significant steps to achieve a budget that meets the requirements of the FinBES Act. Cleaning up the obsolete regulations is progressing smoothly. Half of the 100 schemes have already been revised. Digitisation of the financial administration was completed on 1 April 2020 and the members of the Court of Auditors have now been sworn in. This month the website of the public body will be online. Construction of the new control tower and terminal at the airport is progressing. Of course, they have also had to deal with the restrictions that have been in place lately. And we're working on several road projects. I have already indicated in an earlier debate that I myself was not satisfied with the progress. Mr Bosman spoke about European procurement. A few other things have happened, too. That was indeed a setback. I've acknowledged that, too. At the same time, quite a catch-up has been made. That is in a way the advantage if you have the materials and if there are relatively few tourists. Then you can literally make meters, and that's what happened. In the light of developments now and the results, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the previous government Commissioner, Mr Franco, and his deputy, Mr Stegers, for their commitment over the last two years and to congratulate the new government Commissioner, Mr Van Rij, and his deputy, Mrs Francis, for their speedy start. I really think that they do that well, that there is a lot of energy behind it and that they also ring the bell when things don't work out. I always think of Mr Van Raak's words when it comes to the towers. It is important for a government commissioner to ring the bell in this position when things are not going well. I'll be right back on the drinking water supply. They have made great efforts to raise this issue. The plans are partly delayed by travel restrictions, if you are dependent on external people and equipment. I would also like to say to Mr Van Raak that perhaps in another place, such as the hordes of consultants and advisors he sketches such a beautiful picture of, this is not the case. I believe that, in an orderly way, even given the limited absorption capacity, we should not do what he painted as a picture. I very much agree with him that consultants and consultants are good, but not if they are all going to organize their own things. It must remain manageable, it must be done together with the people on the ground and, of course, the costs must also be taken into account. Just hiring people who do a job and then leaving it to the people who have to do it and who may not know enough how it all works doesn't help. So you're gonna have to do something sustainable. Occasionally, things are going to happen, and that is also my experience over the past two and a half years, and it is also going to be less fast than we are used to here, because the whole context, the whole infrastructure, is not like here. A little further away from the distance, it is also about knowledge and experience and the presence of sufficiently skilled people in certain specialist areas. That is a constant point of attention and it will remain so. Even if this law is passed and we continue in the coming years, it will be a focus: how do we ensure that on such a small island, which is in some sense isolated, sufficient young people remain who have been trained, who have learned a craft and who can help to get the island further? This is quite apart from all the legal aspects. We must continue to invest in this, and we must continue to encourage people to do so. There is plenty of potential, but we must be careful about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u28	Enough knowledge on the island, on the islands, is important. But then I'll be back on the roads. Saba doesn't seem to have a special club of people busy building roads. On Saba, they're gonna take that place. They're working on that locally, and they can handle it locally. The amount of knowledge that we have to offer externally to Saba is zero. They're just fixing it there. I think we can do the same on Saint Eustatius. I often fear the influence we bring with our expertise and knowledge. I have said in the past: I am not waiting for zoobs, hectometer poles and matrix boards at all. I just want them to roll out concrete and build roads. I think we should make it that simple. The knowledge is here. We just need to find where the obstruction is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u29	I will not deny that in previous debates I have also indicated that the natural reflex is that, because we have had to intervene, there is a heavy responsibility on our shoulders to do so in a good way. Of course you are also a bit dominated by thinking about it here. From the inside, I can tell you that the officials involved said, let's do it the way we do it there. That has always been my own experience. This sometimes causes tensions, for example when it comes to regulation and the Caribbean Netherlands. At the same time, fortunately, I have also seen a lot of examples where things are really different from here. I would also like to continue to promote this. But it must be done in such a way that, in two years' time, a road must not be rebuilt because it is not technically well constructed. But it doesn't have to be according to the standards of CROW here in the Netherlands, because it is a very different environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u30	Well, then we're a little different. I wouldn't even mind rolling out concrete in two years' time. Then we'll just do it again. That's just a learning process; it's getting better and better. It's people working locally, working locally. I don't think it's too bad that in two years the roads will be broken again. Of course there will be holes in it, but so do I in the Netherlands. I also know roads that are better than others, but also roads that are worse and where it takes quite some time. The concern, which makes us cramp every time, is: what if we have to get back to work in two years? We then apparently spent money that was not sufficiently sustainable. I don't think we should look at the Caribbean part that way. We should just get to work there and do things. I know this Secretary of State, and I think he's like: don't be too scared and just go through with it. Roll out the concrete!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u31	I'm just trying to imagine how you roll out concrete, but I think that's written in transferential terms. I am very much in favour of this approach: do it practically. But we can expect, I say to Mr Bosman, that if we build a road there, it will not fail after two years. We also want it to be decent and sustainable in the sense that it lasts for a number of years. This may well be done according to the method applied to Saba, but remember that Saba has as a tradition you said it yourself in your contribution and I think Mr Van Raak also said that things have been taken up in a certain way for years. This also requires an infrastructure. It takes skilled people to do that. This requires a form of activity that involves you. It's missing, or actually missing, on St. Eustatius. There was a very different way of working there. So I think we can really learn from Saba. At the same time, it can also be done in the manner of Saint-Eustatius. However, you can expect to do something good with every euro we put in to build a road. The Court of Auditors will look into this too. I know that IenW's colleague agrees with me 100%. We do not want people to say: they have done something here; they have quickly built a road there, it looked nice at the opening and after that it was nothing but misery. It is true that it preceded planning time, which initially took longer than I had hoped for before we could start. At the same time, we have been able to catch up with a great deal of this delay. I think that's a good thing. But I just wanted to see earlier that the concrete mills were rotating and that the asphalt, or at least the concrete, was being constructed. I believe that the port, including Mr Bosman's remark: don't do it all in the Hague way; do it the local way, but there are some basic rules regarding good governance, that you spend your money well and that you do the good things. With regard to the island, I was asked how I look back on those two and a half years. On a number of things, I am positively surprised at the way things have been, in particular about the cooperation of the people on the island and also about the enthusiasm, not only with the administration, but also with entrepreneurs. They said, "There's gonna be a new time, we can invest." Of course this is now interrupted by COVID-19, but there will also be a time later. So we need to move that horizon a lot further. At the same time, there are also a number of routes which I thought might have been faster. Now we're doing all this for the longer term. So it's not a competition or we're gonna make it to the deadline. Of course we want to show results, but it must also remain visible and, as I said, remain sustainable, so that the inhabitants of Saint-Eustatius can actually say in five years' time: in the period 2018-2020, a lot of investments have been made that we are still reaping the benefits of. That's the goal. That was the goal and that will remain the goal. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the legislative proposal before us. A number of members have already said that in 2017, the then Minister of the Interior, in response to ongoing concerns about the state of administration of the public body of Saint-Eustatius, asked a committee of wise men to investigate. That investigation ended up on my desk when I arrived. I've studied that. I'd never been there before, but I've read the research. I was also shocked, as were those who had been there at that time. There was indeed a lot of late maintenance, also in a transferable sense. A governance culture had grown that did not lead to good governance. Things really went wrong. These were all things that weren't in the interest of the island's inhabitants. That lawlessness, the financial maladministration, the discrimination, Mrs Özütok said it too, were things that you do not go lightly over. That was a structural thing. There was something cultural in there. How are you gonna break that? Not by writing more letters from The Hague and not by sending the Cft again. None of that helped. There was only one option in the end, and that was intervention. I remember those debates in the Chamber. Everyone had a hesitation. People had pain in the abdomen. I believe that Mr Van Raak said at the time: everything in my heart says that we should not do this and yet there is no other option. So no one was excited that we were going to do this. It also created great obligations for the Netherlands to show it. In that relationship, things had gone wrong on both sides. It really wasn't true that things didn't go well on Saint-Eustatius alone. There was also a lack of attention for the islands in general. Maybe it was because of the proportions that weren't right. Between The Hague and Sint-Eustatius, things were really not good. Then you come to that step to intervene. Then you know failure is not an option. You have to succeed. You want to show what good governance can achieve. Then you arrive and you go with the government commissioner and the government apparatus that's sitting there and see what's really going on. At that time it turned out that the situation was even more serious than we had suspected, at least more persistent, making it more difficult to speed up at the beginning and to achieve results very quickly. When that decision was taken here and that law was passed, we also said that we were going to do so as short as possible, but as long as necessary. You have to be careful not to be too short, so the results don't last. If you do it too long, you create a situation without perspective. I have, of course, been to Saint-Eustatius a number of times, even after the procedure. I heard different views there. There are people who say: it is very good that you have come and you have to stay for a very long time in this way. And there are people who say, "Give us democracy back." The present proposal is based on opinions from the Council of State and brings your members into previous debates. You yourself argued in favour of a sort of gradual return. The present proposal is the best of both worlds. On the one hand, you are trying to bring democracy back, allowing people to exercise their right to elect elected representatives. At the same time, you're not trying to do this binary, from nothing to everything. You're trying to do this controlled, in a coaching role, to make the board grow up step by step. There's no prescription for that. There are no previous models where this has been done. In a way, this is trying out. But I'm sure this is the best way, given the situation. On the one hand, there is a prospect of democracy. Of course, this is happening in the first phase with an island council which does not yet have all the powers. The great thing about this proposal is that it does not determine the time when something happens, but that the results determine when something happens. So the faster the results are achieved, the faster the move to the next phase. Theoretically, this could mean that within one to one and a half years, when all goes well, you will return from the phase in which we are now sitting to... I believe Mr Van Raak said: the new normal. Didn't Mr. Van Raak say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. De Graaf said it. You're actually going to the situation we intended when we first discussed the bill. I think this is the core of the story. I understand very well the wish of the Chamber to indicate what the timetable looks like: when does what happen? I don't know. When I look at the list of criteria that we have already completed and when I see where things have already been realized, I think we can really take steps. If we can get the pace going now, and if the elections that were planned at the end of the year really lead to a new democratic revival, then people can also rebuild their own island. There will then be enthusiasm and administrative positive energy to do good things. This also depends on how the island council will relate to the government commissioner and his deputy. You can't have good governance contained not only in legal texts or constitutional establishment. It also has to do with how you deal with each other, whether you are transparent, whether you have an open debate and whether you dare to reflect. This was, of course, missing in part when we found this situation. So it is at least as much about culture and attitude as it is about the state's establishment. We make laws here. That can also be tested. So I don't want to trivialize what we're doing. I would just like to stress that it should not only be a matter of law, but also of a much more positive attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mrs Diertens and then Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u35	I'm glad you're saying it's not just about laws. Actually, you need to see how you can give the community another lift and make sure the quality of life there improves. Could you perhaps reflect on the fact that I have heard many times that contact with ordinary citizens and the social advisory council at the end of the first two years of the year, which we are now looking back on a little bit? I understand that this is now being revitalized. But I think this is essential if you're gonna get everyone hooked up again. I'm actually shocked that there's so little left of that. There is attention to buildings, roads and all hardware, but the software also needs attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u36	I certainly agree with Mrs Diertens on that last point. I don't immediately feel like this has fallen into decline. If there is such an initiative from the social advisory board, where people meet, people might think after three meetings "it's not going fast enough" or "I'm quitting." It could be. I have always spoken to the social advisory board on my visits. You've been there yourself. I have not only spoken to the Advisory Council, but on Statia Day and Statia Taste of the Cultures also with a lot of ordinary people, so to speak, people like us, about how they have all experienced it and how they see the future of the island. I find that at least as interesting. Those are also talks, and I know that the government Commissioner, both the previous and the current ones, had talks of this kind. During work visits and visits to churches that play a very important role in this, of course, these kinds of conversations are also held. It's too simple, I think, to just hang it on that social advisory board, because it goes way beyond that. Mr Van Dam has also asked a number of questions about it and it is indeed not just the structure. The point is that public administration is in any case in contact with civil society. That is what is happening here and it is happening on an island.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u37	I am merely repeating what I got back from those video phones. I think it is also important that, when this social advisory board is in place, people who have an ordinary job should be taken into account. If someone is on that board and it is not possible to take time off, then that is also a problem. Not everyone has the world job that you can say "I'm not coming" because you also have responsibilities. So you're gonna have to pay attention to it so that everyone, him or her, who wants to, can join in. I would really like to pay a lot of attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u38	I can't rule out people having to resign because it conflicted with their jobs, but I think most of the members are still in office. There's still contact. They also, of course, make arrangements themselves about how they talk to each other and when they get together. Let me put it this way, I didn't interfere, because I really left it up to them to arrange it locally. Frankly, I didn't get the signal that that's the biggest problem either. Of course, it is always a limited reflection and never a 100% representation. It is people who are in the middle of society and who do so mostly in addition to their jobs, just as council members usually have secondary relationships or a main function outside politics. It is also a force that belongs to the people who know the island, who have looked outside and who have a certain background. Just that combination of different backgrounds makes it powerful. The phenomenon that brings people together to soundboards, even though they have no formal role, because they have no legislative role or because they cannot make decisions, is not new. These people have certainly been very important to the government Commissioner and his deputy in the early stages to get a sense of where they were going. Is our information in order? Do we have to do things differently? I've been through some of those townhall sessions myself, where, of course, there were a lot more people than just the advisory board, and that's where you saw the direct communication. That is an advantage of a relatively small island, because there it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u39	I just heard the Secretary of State speak about the phase-by-stage development that we are now facing. He said, "If things go faster, you can go to a next step sooner." I know in particular the optimist that this Secretary of State is. And optimism sometimes you also need a little bit in the portfolio Kingdom relations! Many people have pointed out in the debate that things are not always that fast and that some things are not that easy. Then you get to the point that a little more planning is also welcome. I don't mean planning like a corset that you can't get out of anymore, but a corset to hold each other to something. This is particularly true if an island council is actively involved, so that it is not something that comes from elsewhere, but a shared agenda. That would be my ideal picture. It does not have to be settled tomorrow, because the island council will not be here tomorrow either. But maybe we can at another time so that we can... I feel responsible for doing it that way, too. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u40	Indeed, the island council is not yet here. It won't be there until after the elections have taken place. On the contrary, I think it is very important to include a number of issues, such as priorities and planning, in this island council and in the discussion with the Government Commissioner and his deputy. That is the first stage in which they operate together, but the island council still with limited powers. I am very much in favour of subsidiarity, as I have said before in the Chamber, and I really think that you should leave the responsibilities with the fellow governments if they belong there. And I think this is an excellent example of something that really needs to be discussed by the island council and, of course, I still have a responsibility through the government commissioner. For example, where you would now be asking for the social advisory council, it is instantly a democratically elected entity, namely the island council. It may have limited powers, but that can change quickly if we meet the criteria we have set earlier. So I think there's really a model in there that gives you a perspective as a member of that island council. If you do the good things, you'll get into that next phase where you'll get more powers. That goes a step further and further, finally in the first three stages still under the authority of the Government Commissioner. However, such a government commissioner is of course not entirely free to shoot all the proposals from that island council. He could formally do that, but then we all know what's happening. So I think that this island council has a lot of influence from the very beginning, if they adopt the right attitude, also to that government Commissioner. I would just say that the priority on which route you are going to follow, which points from that list of criteria you are going to address and how you are going to do that is also a matter for that island council. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the twelve criteria of good governance that we have previously formulated in the second progress report. As a result of this test, I concluded that a great deal of work had been done, but that the situation would not have improved in the short term in such a way that a new administration would have sufficient basis to carry out the tasks properly. In view of the fact that these delays were greater than initially envisaged, for example, more time is needed to put the financial management and administrative organisation in order. As a result, it is also not justified to end this procedure, which was originally intended to last for two years, and to proceed to the order of the day. That is why this proposal is here. I listened very carefully to the Chamber. Again, on Saint-Eustatius I hear really changing sounds. I think the rapporteurs have heard the same thing. Here in the Chamber there was a broad demand and desire to restore that democracy quickly. I believe that almost all Members have raised this issue in the various AO's. I think that's important, too. Hence this proposal in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u43	I agree, and I have insisted on this from the start. However, I would like to put my dilemma to the Secretary of State, because he may have the same dilemma. I think the island council should get to work as soon as possible. But what I now notice on the island is that people think that the island council with that election is for the politicians, so it's not for me. At the same time, when advisory councils are set up, people think they should be there. On the contrary, I would like people on the island to be given a fair chance before the island council, rather than those who are always at the forefront. Does the Secretary of State also see that dilemma, that if we do it this way, the chances of the same people coming back will be too great? Does the Secretary of State also see the dilemma that if we do this in this way, the chances of the same people coming back will be too great?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u44	I think we've discussed that before. Look, I have to be careful, of course, to make judgments here about who I think the island council should be. For that is truly up to the people of Saint Eustatius, and not to me, nor to you. But I do agree with Mr Van Raak that if you went back to the way it was, there is a very good chance that you could have the same problems. So that fresh blood, new insights and new generations should play a role, I would very much welcome. That is precisely why we have focused on information, that we say that it is not at birth whether you are a member of the island council, that it does not go from father to son or mother to daughter, but that people who feel called to become a representative of the people can run for office. Mrs. Kuik asked me if I have any insight into how many people are going to do that. Are there enough candidates? I hope so. I really hope that we can show that there is real perspective for Saint Eustatius and that there are really people standing up who say they want to be candidates, people who are just part of that society. Frankly, because there is a clear difference between this island council and the social advisory role that is now being achieved, I am not afraid of some kind of competition or repression. Because you can now see municipal councils in smaller municipalities and also village or district councils. It's about what your job or your role is. In any case, I believe that public administration should be in contact with all kinds of civil society organisations, but in a formal sense there is only one club that is protected by this law, and that is the island council. That's just a legal anchoring. It is a very important body that will only increase its weight in this further phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u45	The Secretary of State is, of course, right: it is not up to him and certainly not to me to decide who will be on the island council. That's up to the people on Statia. Only it is a very small island, where everyone knows each other so well, with a very long culture of "political is something for him or her from that family, who is again family of...". It's already June and all the courses are about to start. It's very soon October. So that culture change isn't gonna take place in those few months. Does the Secretary of State recognize the dilemma? I've suggested before: couldn't you run an election for an advisory council? That is a sort of island council as proposed by the law, which has a number of tasks, but not all of them. But just by giving it a different name, you might also be able to create other expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u46	This is a discussion that is sometimes held in the European Netherlands when it comes to town and district councils and powers. I know there are people who want to be on a village council, but not in the city council, because that is a completely different responsibility. I think we should continue to make that distinction. Of course, they are both organisations in which people represent others. But the legal tasks of an island council are completely different from those of an advisory council. And I think we should continue to make that distinction. Moreover, in this legislative proposal, too, I believe that it is mainly up to the island council and the government commissioner to look into how to set up this whole system of advice in the near future. That doesn't have to be a blueprint from The Hague. We do think it is important to make use of the knowledge that is available to society in these first stages, because otherwise you would be given some sort of isolated governance very quickly. But I think it is also especially something for the people on Saint-Eustatius himself to shape that. These are handouts to do it like this; it is not cast into concrete. It is mainly up to the people there to decide whether they want to continue to have this in the future. I am very much in favour of it myself; I strongly believe that when you talk about civil society and citizens' involvement, you can organise this. But there's not one particular way you should organize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u48	So, President, restore democracy as quickly as possible, but in a way that is justified. That is also why, as a cabinet, we believe that the island council may resume some of its tasks, but at the same time the government commissioner remains responsible for part of the responsibilities of the island council as well as the tasks of the administrative college which is not yet in the first phase and the authority. Such a construction has been discussed in previous debates, as I said, and also suggested by your Chamber. This proposal regulates the extension of the administrative procedure while at the same time ensuring the gradual phasing-out of the current provisions. In four phases, a step-by-step approach is being developed towards a regular administrative situation. I will not explain these stages for the sake of shortness, because they are clearly laid down in the law. It is clear that, as I said, they are indeed not time-driven but result-driven. Those 12 criteria are therefore central. That doesn't mean you couldn't think of any more criteria, but we established them then, and in our opinion they very well reflect the essence of good governance. On top of that, of course, much more can happen, but experience shows that... Mr Van Dam just said: are you optimistic or not? Of course, I have my experiences left and right, but I still remain optimistic and I believe that this can be done here. But we should not overload people with ambitions and plans where then, given the scale and distance, there are simply limitations. Then you create inherent disappointments, and that's the last thing I want. I would like to offer people a perspective and to show them that you can come to a higher level step by step if you do the good things. Saba has been mentioned many times and I am not going to say here that Saint Eustatius Saba should be, because they are completely different islands. But when you see what has been done on Saba with the same size and scale, it is indeed interesting to study why things have been going well in recent years and not on Saint-Eustatius. I think Saint-Eustatius can do that in the same way, in his own way. I'm really convinced of that. Mr. Chairman. The holding of elections this autumn is subject to certain conditions. The fulfilment of these conditions gives the assurance that the new island council can also function properly. Two of these conditions have already been met: the electoral register is cleaned up and sufficiently reliable, not 100% reliable, but sufficiently reliable, as I have informed you to obtain a representative result, and the Court of Auditors has been set up. Furthermore, there is a great deal of work at the moment to complete the reorganisation of the administration. That remains a point of attention. It may be the biggest challenge of a small island. This includes describing working instructions. A training programme is also offered to potential politicians. People are informed that this is a possibility. On my first visit I don't know when that is and when the weather is possible I'll put the emphasis on the possibility of running, including for young people and people who come from outside politics. They can also become part of the politics on which they may have been very critical. You can be critical, but if you don't participate and try to improve things, it never gets better. So take that chance, I'd say, and get on with it. That gives me confidence in those elections, Mr. President. Of course there are a lot of questions to ask. Are there enough candidates? How's COVID-19? There are all kinds of disclaimers, but we still have time. This is the legislative process and I am still aiming for the autumn. Because if we were to move that backwards, we would also shift the perspective of democracy further backwards, albeit in a limited way. But it has to be justified. The criteria must therefore be met. That's one. Secondly, it must be justified in the context of the measures to be taken to organise these elections properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u49	I am pleased that you would like to pay attention to the question of whether there are more people who could take the training as an island council member if necessary. I understand that you are partly not talking about it and that it should also be the initiative of the people of Statia itself, but I am thinking here of the fact that political parties in the Netherlands are training and working on their own talents. Given the scale and the social and political commitment that you so badly want to enter, it might be nice and efficient to simply offer an open course or meeting about what politics means and how to be socially active. So people can make a more conscious choice and know better how things are going. I have also experienced here that I received beautiful courses, when before that I had no idea what I ended up in. I just think this would be really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u50	There's some tension here. What we want to do, what I want to do, is to create the framework conditions within which people can say they can do politics. It is not for me to tell you exactly which course to do, whether it should be a course on the political ideologies and foundations or whatever it is about "how can I be a good island council member using all the legal possibilities I have now and how does that work?', So it's just practical. I think that we should, above all, approach it very practically: in that sense, apolitically, but preparing people for this new task. This is happening a lot in the Netherlands through political parties, but not alone. Political parties have a very different character there. Some are deeply rooted and maybe new ones are coming; you don't know that. If you want to interest new candidates, I think it is especially important to tell people how it works, as we do here with information in the House of Representatives and with ProDemos by explaining how democracy works and what is expected of a popular representative. I would like to put it this way in order to prevent us from sending whom we would find suitable island council members. I find it very complicated. I personally have some experience with it, but that does not fit in with the role we have now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u51	Continue... Oh, Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr Van Raak thinks otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u53	Something else, probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u54	No, we could take that course together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u55	I think that's gonna be a fun class.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u56	Yeah, that's gonna be a very interesting course. It's right what the Secretary of State says, but maybe it's unnecessary. Of course, we have the VNG. That's where you stumble on every course. That's where they grow on the tree. I can't imagine the VNG doesn't have an appropriate course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u57	No, but the question is not whether such courses are available. We're working with the VNG, of course. Above all, I would like to say, like Mr Bosman, that we should not roll this out as a kind of European Dutch project, but tailor-made for that purpose. There is a risk that if you were to roll out the standard courses of the European Netherlands, people might think: what is all this, what is coming to me? It is already a problem in the Netherlands that when people go into politics, they often think: it takes too much time, what do I have to do? We need to keep the threshold as low as possible. It must be the administration of the island of Saint-Eustatius. That must be a reflection of the population, young, old, man, woman. Political ideologies, my experience, do not play such an important role at that local level. Of course there are, but it is often about very practical matters. You've already mentioned them yourself. It's about the water supply. It's about the roads. It's about the garbage. It's about schools. People need to be involved and know what they can do in their role as members of the island council, what they can do and how they can influence governance in a positive way. Mr. Chairman. I started my input by referring to the book The Golden Rock. The history of Saint-Eustatius shows where the historical roots lie, what happened, what the challenges were in history, but also what the bridge is to the challenges of today, because it is not so difficult to make. We feel and are also responsible for the well-being and well-being of the people of Saint Eustatius. When the decision to intervene was taken with unanimous support in both Chambers, I knew that the challenges would be great and the responsibility that goes with it. I can feel them, too. I feel it every day, and our officials feel it. I see a lot of passion being worked out to make sure that things are going better with all the limitations that there are, and they're going better. To those who say "yes, it's a bit disappointing," I'd say: look what that glass looks like, is it half full or half empty? It may not be quite full, but it's fuller than it was and it's gonna get fuller. I think we're working on the good stuff, along with the people... Yes, the example of the glass. But there's no water in it. There could be something else in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u58	I thought it was a bad example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u59	I didn't tell you to put water in it. I would have liked the pace to be a bit higher, but I can see that on a number of routes that speed is being picked up quite a bit. This will eventually lead to a situation in which the people who live on Saint-Eustatius can look back and say: yes, there was an improvement. That must be the goal, and that is still my goal. I now come to the answers to a number of questions put by Members. I hope my administration is in such a way that it is a little orderly. First of all, the island council. I have already said a few things about this. I'm going through the questions as to whether I answered them adequately in my first introduction. I think so. The Civil Participation Council. Mr Van Dam has asked a specific question about this. He actually asked: isn't that too much; do you get no competition? I think there's a big difference between the island council and the citizen participation council. I have just indicated that it is the idea to start this way, but it is really up to the island council to decide whether this is the right instrument in the long term. Just as we had the social advisory board, which is now being dissolved, you need to see what a good way of representation is. The Central Dialogue, which was also referred to, is really something else. The Central Dialogue also exists on Bonaire and Saba. That really is an employer-worker relationship. We must make that distinction. I realize very well that on a small island there could be some kind of administrative hustle and bustle if you have many of these kinds of consultative bodies, but it is ultimately up to the people themselves to decide what is still appropriate and what works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u60	Honesty requires me to say that I had some kind of motion in preparation on this point, but I can actually live with it when the Secretary of State says: if that island council is there, then we should consider in consultation with the island council what the added value of that is. It doesn't have to be me on the first day, because let's face it, we also need to see how this island council works. I also took the opportunity to see what is the smallest municipality in the Netherlands. You can look all that up. I believe the smallest Vlieland is and so you go to the municipality of Rozendaal and there is still St.Eustatius up there. Village and community councils are available in larger municipalities. That's perfectly right, but I don't think you have 1,600 inhabitants in a very small municipality, in addition to the city council of nine members... Well... If the Secretary of State wishes to undertake, so to speak, that he will come to the Chamber for six months or a year after the island council has been set up, a kind of review, in consultation with that island council, which deals with the added value of such a citizen participation council, I would be very reassured by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u61	Anyway, I'm going to report on that in the progress reports. I really see it as a shared task of the island council, the government commissioner and myself. If the island council is going to function perfectly, something like this could actually be unnecessary. On the other hand, contact with civil society is always good. How that is dealt with and how it is done on the spot, I really leave it to the people there. Especially in the early stages, the question is what such an island council is going to look like. Then such an additional element of a citizen participation council can really add something of involvement, also for the new island council, because that island council is, of course, relatively small. The island is small, but the island council is also relatively small. This can have real added value. If it's not there anymore, then we just have to say that we don't do that anymore. And I'd like to report on that. No problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u62	Well, that saves one motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u63	That saves another motion. Let's see how far we can get. I do not know how many more motions Mr Van Dam had. I have already answered Mr Van Raak's question. Whether the same people join the island council is up to the voters. Mrs Kuik and Mr Van Raak also asked why we do not call the island council an advisory council. Well, because it's not an advisory board. They also really have legal powers and they are going to grow over time. On the basis of criteria, we can move on to the next phase. From a theoretical point of view, you could move quickly to the next stage, in which the island council already has a lot of powers. So I'd really like to make that distinction. Is there a view of enough candidates? I have said that we are doing everything we can to provide information to interest people. I want to go that way myself before the election and call people to participate. It is important that people have applied for membership before the day of the application. Then we will have to wait for the elections before we can conclude whether they have been successful. Then I'll make the little bridge to the election, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Özütok and Mr Van Dam had asked for the timetable to be made more specific. I have already said that I see a timetable earlier and above all as an outcome of achieving criteria than the other way around, and that is therefore influenceable in time. Mrs Kuik wondered: shouldn't the elections have taken place later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u64	I've also asked many rhetorical questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u65	Okay, if you don't want them answered, I'll just keep going. That was a rhetorical question from Mrs. Chicken. I don't have to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u66	This calls for an explanation. I know why this date was chosen. With today's science, all you can ask yourself is whether we shouldn't have set it up later or otherwise. But that's what happened. That's why it's more of a rhetorical question. But I do want it to be very precise, because of course I know the history.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yes. All right, we did have that debate. In retrospect, we will be able to assess whether that has worked or not. I believe this can really work this way. I have spoken about corona in response to a question from Mrs Van der Graaf and Mrs Kuik. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has sent a letter on this subject, which applies to all elections taking place. This also applies to Saint Eustatius. We'll keep a close eye on that. Saint-Eustatius is one of the first to be on the role when it comes to holding elections. So we're going to look into that, and you'll be informed of that, of course. That also depends on the... This is perhaps a good time to say that I am pleased with the rapid treatment in this Chamber. If the First Chamber does that so quickly, it's not the obstructive factor. But if that were to go backwards, then we already have a problem with the current planning, so it's pretty tight. Mr Van Dam had explored the issue of the island council well and wondered: what about the clerk? He made the comparison with the BZK sg, which would sit here next to the President. In my view, this comparison does not go far enough, as I say in the direction of Mr Van Dam, because there is no island council yet. That is precisely what is at the heart of this proposal. That island council won't be there until after the election. A number of preparatory work is now under way. You may remember that this also happened in the time of dualisation in the Netherlands. At that time, officials were involved as a sort of quarter-minute maker to prepare for that dualization. They actually went into the role of clerk, even though it wasn't there yet. That's how you're gonna look at this. From the point of view of subsidiarity, I think it is very good that we leave the choice of a clerk with the island council, just as the Lower House appoints its own Registrar and does not allow the Minister of the Interior to do so. Then there is indeed overlap, because at the time when the island council takes office, you do not yet have a new clerk. Then there will have to be someone who will observe the honours and make the preparations. There is so much knowledge and experience of clerks in the Netherlands to do that, so we can really work that out. What I see in general terms is that the transfer of people here is not so simple, as Mr Van Raak is very critical of. Filling in good functions is not that easy. So with the people we have there, there will sometimes also be these kind of doubles. Admittedly temporary, because one of the first agenda items on the island council will of course be: who will support us, who will become the new clerk? They will then start a selection process and a new clerk will come. So I see this primarily as a practical issue, and I think that the way Mr van Dam has been digging into it is too deep for the problem we are dealing with here. I think it is a fairly practical problem that, in the end, he is right there, of course, to say that he is simply a matter for the island council and not for the public body or the government commissioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u68	The fact that I've been digging into something too deep, I just take it as a compliment. Article 5 of the Act states that the island secretary will play that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u70	That is, I think, the chief of the official organization. I have difficulty with the fact that the head of the administrative organisation is double-handed and is also a clerk. I don't quite understand what you're saying either. You say there are experienced clerks out there. It would be exactly my solution, for example, to get an experienced clerk somewhere from a Dutch municipality. Of course, you have to let that be part of the public body, because you can't let it float anywhere. But that is precisely what the island secretary is going to play that role, and I object to that. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u71	I think... We've been through time when the city secretary was sitting next to the mayor at the council meetings. Then came the dualization and we got clerks and the municipal secretary sat only at the college. What needs to be done here is that a number of things need to be prepared, which is a quarter of an hour function to ensure that the island council can start. That has already begun, of course. Those preparations have actually already begun. And, of course, knowledge is being used. Nor is it a higher math to think about what that registrarol should look like. We already have a lot of experience with that. Someone must be responsible for this until the island council appoints a new clerk. It can be done very quickly, I think. You can't bring that up. You can't start a sort of selection process right now, because the island council also needs to find something of the profile sketches and everything. But it is precisely a phase in which there is no hard dualistic structure as there is here. There is, of course, a hybrid situation in which the government commissioner plays a role, the island council plays a limited role and they are going to pick out their clerk. So I understand the equation, but it's limp, because we don't speak of a controlling organ and an executive organ. This is partly confused, because in the first phase there are a number of tasks for the government commissioner who normally belong to the island council. And it's about that first phase. It is really about the first period immediately after the island council elections, in which the Registrar must be recruited as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u72	Still, I think I'm really looking at this differently. Of course, the equation is definitely limp. I'd really like to believe that. It is also a very special situation. But let's face it: what worries us all is that there is a culture of governance that we are all not waiting for. As representatives, wherever we've been, we all know that a good support, which also whispers to us "gosh, wouldn't you do it a little bit sister?" Or "Wouldn't you do it a little like this?', Of course, just with responsibility for the members of the island council, with a sip on a drink making a difference, or so I would like to put it, but that also has an association with water, and I should not do that. And that's exactly what I want. I would just like to give the island council a flying start, with a support that does not have to be doubted whether someone is in a double role, and perhaps also with someone who has gained that experience in another place, in a municipality in the Netherlands. That's what I'm trying to do. That is why I think it makes a real difference if you let the island secretary do that, even with the very best intentions. I don't doubt the integrity of the people involved, but it just makes a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u73	That island secretary does that under the authority of the government commissioner sitting there. In the first phase, the Commissioner for Government has a number of tasks which actually belong to the island council. This is one of those dilemmas, I'm not denying a dilemma where you can make a choice. You can arrange things in front of the island council, which is not even there yet, or you can leave it to the island council and take a number of preparatory measures that are almost apolitical: just set up a registry and make preparations for it. As for the official who's going to pick up the registrar, I'd say really leave that to the island council. But I think Mr Van Dam already agrees with that. So it's just about that first phase after the election and how you're going to set it up. I say in his direction that the knowledge about registry functions, including in the Netherlands, is of course being used. The government commissioner and his deputy will certainly do that. And they're gonna charge someone with that, because they can't take on that role of Registry themselves. So they have to charge someone in their device with that. That's the island secretary now, temporarily. In the end, this role simply goes to someone who is totally loyal to the island council, who is on the payroll of the public body, but who does not have a hierarchical relationship with the government commissioner. So I think this problem is perfectly soluble. You can do that soon if you prepare that properly. So you could already do a lot of preparatory work. That is rather apolitical, because such a Registry function is set up in many places. Then, using that knowledge that's there, you really leave it at the island council to decide who they choose for it. I think that is an issue that Mr van Dam should also be sensitive to. We should not take an advance on this by putting in clerks who would have to do so in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u74	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u75	Yes, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. I think the arguments have been exchanged, and it does not make much sense for me to do that again. If the island council is in office at some point, it is of course the case that they choose who will be their clerk, so to speak. But for me, it's the importance of the route before that. Anyway, I hear the Secretary of State's position and I fear that I am looking at it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u76	Well, let me rephrase. Whoever is going to play the role of that quartermaster, whether it is the island secretary or another official, he or she will do so under the full authority of the Government Commissioner, who will also take on a number of responsibilities of the island council in the first stages. So you could say it's a very unique situation anyway. I think this can be solved very practically. I do not see any obstacle, also on the basis of the law as it stands today, to putting this into practice. As I said, I think the island council should put this as one of the first items on the agenda. Then you must be able to have a clerk within a relatively short time. So the problem is: do you have one from the island or do you have to come from outside? That dilemma is always there. That also takes time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u77	I'm gonna give it a shot anyway. What's against doing it differently? What's against not putting that double hat on that island secretary and just saying that we're flying someone with knowledge, whether that's a local person or someone else from somewhere else? That's just to get started. No double caps, because it's hard enough for everyone. We're just gonna start it up. It's just a quick start, with a lot of knowledge from the Registry. Then we're gonna give that island council all the room to choose who they want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u78	As far as I'm concerned, that wouldn't be against it. Only we have presented the bill as it stands, with the island secretary taking up that role. He can do so himself or he can do so under his responsibility, ultimately under the responsibility of the Government Commissioner. If the Chamber wanted this to be different, an amendment must be tabled. Then it might be possible, but I do not think this is a point that you are saying is really going wrong. After all, it's temporary. This is a special, unique law, unlike anything else. You have that right of amendment, and let me put it this way: I think there are good reasons for doing so, especially since it is a situation that may take two or three months. I have already addressed Mrs Kuik's point about the vacancies. That wasn't a rhetorical question, it was a real question. I've already answered it. There was also Mrs Dierten's question as to how young people could be involved. In February, already before the corona crisis, sessions were held with experts from the VNG, the Election Council and the NIMD. We've got that wide-ranging. I would like to encourage everyone here to promote this through their contacts. I will do so myself on my next visit to Saint-Eustatius. The role of the National Representative has been addressed by members in various facets and questions. Among other things, Mr Van Dam and Mrs Diertens have asked: what about this State representative, particularly in phase four? Because then he will have a slightly different role with regard to the public body than he currently has. The National Representative was removed when that temporary law came into force. We want to go back to normal, you might say. The role of this State representative is thus restored in this process. Of course, we do not want to fall back into the old situation. That's what makes it special. We're not going blank in here. Something happened, we had to intervene, we want to go back to normal and we don't want to fall back into that old situation. This means that you need to strengthen that role of the State representative, especially in phase four, which is "back to normal" situation. In any case, you should be able to watch if necessary. This means: more access to meetings of the board and the island council. Whether that is a model for the other public bodies is a discussion we are going to have. We are doing so at all about the role of the National Representative and the duo function, as Mr Van Dam describes. I do not agree with him that there are problems there. I did read that ibo report and the Council of State opinion. We are thinking about what a good model is, even in terms of the relationship between the ten towers of Van Raak and the islands: how can you be better coordinated and more effective? That role of the State representative is a function and a person. That job description might not work anymore. I am extremely satisfied with the person who currently combines both functions. But we did say that he was an acting State representative. This means something, namely that we are thinking about whether this function should be permanent and whether what we now arrange with Saint-Eustatius should automatically apply to the other public bodies. So I get the question, but I can't answer it right now. I also think that it belongs in the course we are going to discuss with the Chamber, and also with the public bodies, around the establishment and follow-up of the opinions of the Council of State and the Ibo. I now come to a question from Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u79	Very briefly, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u80	I will, Mr. Chairman. I fully understand that we need to take the time to see how that goes, because the ibo report and the Council of State have all still to be discussed. I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to this dual function, because I believe that the State representative is also the director of the Dutch Caribbean Office at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u82	We all know the tension of the islands: gosh, can't it all go a little faster? I just want to emphasise that point. I hope that the Secretary of State will pay attention to this in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mr Van Dam can be assured of that. But I thought I heard him say: there's some kind of tension on that. Maybe in a functional sense, because you say that there can be tension on that. I do not see that in everyday practice, so I have no complaints about functioning. But the fact that it is an acting representative of the State and at the same time the director of the RCN shows enough that this is not the final solution in this form and that we really want to have that discussion in substance. But that's a little bit of a "how can I put it?" On the edges of this legal treatment. It does, of course, touch it, because it receives four additional tasks for Saint-Eustatius in phase. Mr. Chairman. Then I've come to the head of other questions. It was about the communication. I believe that Mrs Özütok said at one point: we had to read from the letter of Parliament that something was going to happen to the ferry. I have always understood from the President that she wants us to send letters to the Chamber and not to get it first in the newspaper and then reach the Chamber. So I thought I had done something right, but then Mrs Özütok criticized me for taking the wrong order. I'm trying to communicate as much as I can through Kamerletters. Then maybe it'll be in the paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u84	I don't appreciate the letters of the House of Representatives, but it was the residents that mattered to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u85	Yes. Well, then, I'd like to agree on that point. It may well be that administrative decisions are taken that are not all communicated with residents in advance. The problem of transport has also been raised very often in previous debates. This was also discussed in my discussion with the Social Advisory Council. So it is a subject as such that has been discussed regularly, but this concrete solution was indeed not first presented to the inhabitants. That is also a bit the easy thing to do now, where there is no island council. We only have a social advisory board, a government commissioner and an alternate who at least now have direct responsibility to me and are actually civil servants who run the island in a temporary situation. Maybe that could have been better in communication. It could be. But the theme as such is not new. It's been discussed before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u86	It was indeed a solution desired by a number of people in terms of mobility, especially at this time. But I do have care, and he lives there too. Is it just another temporary thing? How structural is this gonna be? And is it viable? Those are all related questions. Can the Secretary of State also clarify this? Or can he at least indicate a route for how we can come to that clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u87	At the moment, it's not structural. Saba and Sint-Eustatius Sint-Eustatius are in a special situation, but it also applies to Saba already indicated by letter that they would like new facilities there, because they experience this as a problem. And of course it is also a problem, not only the accessibility but also affordability. This is also about economic development, one might say. But actually, it affects everything. For example, when people have to fly out for medical treatment and stuff. It's actually affecting all the residents. It also has to do with the level of costs, a point that we have dealt with on a number of occasions. That pilot was requested in a letter from the islands of March 25th. There is currently 2 million available until the end of the year to do that pilot. Based on that pilot, you're gonna see if it's something we should do structurally, if we need to adjust things and if it works or not. Of course, we also have the bad luck that we are now in a very special situation. Someone said: why are we going to set up a ferry now when there is hardly any way to travel? Well, we assume that eventually we'll be back in a normal situation, where there are fewer restrictions and more can be traveled. But this can also help to help people and businesses in this difficult situation, through this reduced rate, to develop further and, if possible, to allow tourists to come back and start economic development. So it has both an economic side and a side for the inhabitants of the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u88	It may be a little municipal politics, but that's part of the subject. I'd like to give the Secretary of State the following. There are costs associated with a ferry, but you should also see what it pays. We often talk about economic development, about purchasing power, about care, about almost all the issues we all mention here, such as poverty reduction. That ferry can all contribute to that. If it costs $200 to fly up and down and $20 to sail up and down, that ferry will get so much money. Can the Secretary of State also take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u89	I think we should wait for that pilot. We're now making assumptions about a ferry that's making money. That could be true, but for the time being it costs money. I do believe in the following. At the port in Saba, for example, we also have such a problem. That port is now so dimensioned that you can also make other developments take place there. A ship doesn't have to unload half of it in another place to be able to dock. The port can also receive larger ships. That really has the element of cost level. Mr Van Ark and I have had regular discussions with you on this subject. It's about the income side and the cost side. This is a very important element. That's always a disadvantage. It is sometimes compared with the Wadden Islands, and of course they do, but they are just a little closer to the mainland than Saba and Saint Eustatius. That's different. Of course, we're looking at it and it's also exactly why this pilot started. I am very happy with it myself, but we need to see how the evaluation works and whether it meets the expectations we have in practice. But I am convinced that it will undoubtedly bring a lot of benefits. That business case needs to be fixed. I can't put it out of the open here for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u90	The problem with business cases in these areas is that they're not going to work. I can tell you that already. That business case isn't gonna make any sense. The money that's going to be made is somewhere else: not on that ferry, but on everything around it. When we look through a straw at that ferry, we say: the business case is not going to knock. If we do not include all the opportunities for economic development and opportunities for the people of the islands, that business case will not come into view. Whether the business case becomes profitable or not depends on where we put the fence around the business case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u91	I fully agree with the latter. When I talk about the business case, I'm talking about the broad aspect that you also mention. I don't like looking through a straw. I think you should see this kind of thing in conjunction. When you look through a straw, you always come to the same solution. I will not mention the examples that also play in the Netherlands, but I just remember one where looking in a certain way automatically determines the outcome. It's just a fact that this small island structure has all kinds of disadvantages, but there are also lots of opportunities. So you're talking about diversification of the economy, no matter how small-scale. Look at the layoffs that are now falling at the big company on St. Eustatius. That's a huge blow to society. The island therefore has an interest in doing many more things on its own and getting less dependent. This includes investment and the private sector. The government can't do that alone. I think it's very likely. If you don't have connections, nothing will happen. This applies everywhere, even here in the Netherlands. Connections are conditional, I would almost say, on development. Now I'm going to talk about the water problem. That's not my specialty, I say, but I understand that I'm being called upon here. Questions have also been asked about it. IenW's colleague replied. Mr Bosman referred to the recent closure of the Gwendoline of Putten School. It is true that it was closed, but it is now open again. There was a leak and it was corrected yesterday, to make it a bit concrete. It has been agreed with schools that they can get water from STUCO by tanker. That's practically solved now. The school decided to do it this way. This is a point that concerns me with the Chamber. The Ombudsman also said a few things about it. This is an example of vulnerability. You want to start a transformation, but at the same time you need an infrastructure to do so and much more needs to be arranged for that. At the same time, in the short term, you also want to guarantee the availability of water; I understand that very well. Mrs Özütok wondered whether Charles Doorman could not help with a few hectolitres of water; I think she said that literally. The Charles Doorman has been deployed for military assistance under COVID-19, but also for military assistance and assistance at all in general, and can also serve as backup for medical facilities. However, the Karel Doorman is not currently equipped to supply drinking water or a structural drinking water supply. It could be if a ship leaves the Netherlands and brings stuff. Then you could do that via reverse osmosis or whatever you might think of, but that is not currently available on the Karel Doorman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u92	I thought the Secretary of State still wanted to go on about drinking water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u93	Yeah, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u94	Would you like to ask me about that? Then I suggest he finish his story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u95	I was not specifically concerned with the presence of the crew of the Charles Doorman and that they could play a role. I am concerned about the situation at the moment. It's really poignant. I really want a creative solution, preferably as soon as possible. I don't care if that's an emergency. Who and how that's gonna happen won't make much difference to me as long as it gets solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u96	This was not quite in order, but the question about drinking water has actually been asked by everyone. That's just a basic need. We have often talked about the costs, but now it's just about availability. That's a phase further, you could say, or a more basic phase. I can very well imagine that there are concerns about that. At the moment all materials are brought to the island, of course with the restrictions there are, to replace the transport line. That will happen as soon as possible, but at least this year. Production capacity should also be increased. Emergency repairs are under way. At the moment, the crisis team has drawn up an emergency plan on Saint-Eustatius. The Government Commissioner himself has also called for this in The Hague. Drinking water is now being provided on site at the factory. It is also delivered to people without an alternative facility. There is also communication with the population about the sensible use of tap water. In addition, an emergency producer has been designated. That's the oil terminal GTI. Although the structural solution is being worked out with man and power, we will still have to take account of all kinds of emergency measures to do this properly until the end of the year. I cannot make it more beautiful, but I do know that the Ministry of IenW and ourselves are involved in this and that we are doing everything we can to get a situation in which the availability of drinking water can be guaranteed. Because that's what it's all about in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u97	Exactly the latter, the point at which the Secretary of State ends, is a great concern, namely that drinking water is guaranteed for all households there. Can the Secretary of State promise us that there will be an emergency facility to ensure this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u98	We have to, because this is such an important provision. I would say: do not pin me on the form in which that happens, because I really am not an expert on it. People are thinking about how that's possible. There are several ways to do that. I have already mentioned a number of them. Every effort is being made to ensure that the availability of drinking water can also be guaranteed in the coming months pending the structural measures to be taken. Mrs Diertens asked a question about economic development. I have already said something about this, but I would like to add a few words. Sint-Eustatius and Saba and Bonaire have been affected by travel restrictions, due to the high dependence on tourism. A whole package has been made available to the islands, for which thanks to the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is of course a far from ideal situation, because you want to go to a situation where you can do all kinds of things again. Whether or not that can be done depends again on all kinds of other measures that need to be taken. The Chamber will soon be informed about how it all works. Until then, we're gonna have to deal with that emergency package. I would like to say that you should also use this crisis to think carefully about how vulnerable you are and whether you should do other things. I'm having that conversation with the countries, too. Mr Bosman often talks about agriculture in Bonaire. Projects are now being launched for agriculture in Saba. Of course, we have the goat problem on Saint Eustatius. You could say that's a solution, but it's a problem now. There are so many opportunities that have not yet been exploited, but can be exploited. Political initiatives must be taken to this end. These are perhaps not the things that have been on the list for the first time in recent years of what we wanted to do and which have been part of the criteria for returning to a normal situation, but which will have to be taken up in the near future. You need the private sector to make investments. This means that the public authorities must also give scope to those entrepreneurs who contribute to economic developments in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u99	How far along are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u100	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u101	Oh, yeah. That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mr De Graaf asked how things were going in a moment, if we could look through the hairs of the eye. Will we, for example, get an administrative agreement with Saint-Eustatius? If we are in phase four, the situation from back to normal or almost normal, I would personally very much welcome the fact that with the island council, the board, an authority and one of the public bodies, we are coming to a kind of multi-annual planning of where we want to go. These questions are, of course, dealt with. Then we'll see what the island wants. What can the Netherlands contribute to this? How can we facilitate that? At Saba, we did that to the Saba Package. With Bonaire, a board agreement has been reached. On Saint-Eustatius it may be called different again, but a form in which we, as governments, agree among ourselves on relations in the years to come, I would very much welcome. This also offers space for customization, because the three islands are completely different. So it seems logical to me, and I hope that we will get to that stage soon. Mrs Dierten asked whether a library/meeting centre would also be taken into account in the new construction of the administrative offices and government buildings. Those buildings indeed need to be replaced in many different locations. Architecturally, they are generally not in good condition. Mrs Diertens has previously tabled a motion on this point. In the policy response report sent to the Chamber on 2 April last, I think you know better than I do that motion and the role of libraries in lifelong learning. At the moment there is still written consultation between the Chamber and the Ministry of Education and Science on this issue. I personally very much welcome this, because I believe that the experiences and opportunities of digitalisation over the past period can play a role in shaping, one way or another, the Digital Government Information Points, which we also use. Mrs Diertens and Mrs Kuik were a little disappointed, though, that may have been or had more expectations of some of the measures we would have taken. What do we do for the people, was the question. What have people noticed that we've been active for the past two years? Let me give you a few examples. There is a subsidy scheme to make childcare affordable. There have been construction of lean homes for the elderly. We're going to start with the five emergency homes for urgent households with children. Efforts have been made to promote children's rights with very broad support from the Chamber. I am thinking of increasing the legal minimum wage by 5%, including the related benefits: the AOV and the under stand. We are not yet where we need to be, but we have recently recognised that this is a problem. It is not just about infrastructure and hurricane damage, but also about costs and incomes. That is at the heart of the debate we have had. I'd like to mention that. Mrs. Van der Graaf said that one house had been refurbished. I already shook no when she said that. We need to distinguish ourselves from rentals that have been made with the public body. How can we create more social housing? There's a screaming need for that. There has been cooperation with the European Dutch corporation. We've been looking at how we can do that in a good way. There's a pilot with one apartment to see how it works in practice. So that's all according to schedule. We've handled a lot of homes with that hurricane-damaged program. I think you've been there yourself. A lot has happened there to help people in the private sector build their home hurricane-resistant with new roofs and so on. The plan is to continue with this pilot. The goal is to eventually renovate 95 homes and build 50 new homes. Those are really serious ambitions. It is a very nice project for the new island council to support in the coming years. There are just these kinds of needs. I've seen it work out in practice myself. There's a real need to do this. Maybe it could have been quicker. I'd like to admit that, but we can't pick up everything at the same time. There were even higher priorities to pick up. I'm really convinced this is gonna work. The best proof for this is Saba: there are the most beautiful social rental homes in the Netherlands, at least with the most beautiful view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u103	First Mrs. Kuik and then Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u104	Here again, very precise. There's no one here to say nothing happened. But a lot of things take a long time, for example because of those ten towers that have already been mentioned several times. It is our role to remain constantly frustrated. The people from Statia can't be here. They need us. Forgive us that sometimes we are very grumpy when people still lose 50 dollars for a healthy meal, that they are still waiting until a road is constructed with concrete blocks. Then we'll be very grumpy and then the Secretary of State might even react a little "hm, hm." That's just the way it is. We've been talking about this for decades. The simplest things we don't get done. We talk about an Internet connection until we get one of our own and then Secretary Keijzer nods kindly, but then we wait another year. It's done! We now have a motivated committee, we have a little stability. We're gonna be very cranky. People on Statia can't do it themselves, we have to do it for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u105	I hadn't found out Mrs. Chicken was cranky. Now I do. Now I get it. But I didn't mean to. I believe that the common effort we must make is one of perseverance and perseverance and show that we can do things that others cannot do. And that's tricky, yeah, that's definitely true. But we don't have to say what we all did right. My ambitions are also beyond what we have achieved, but we have actually achieved something. We are far from there yet, but I really hope that in the new phase, including with an elected island council and then with members of the board, we will be able to take those steps further. It would be an illusion to think, I think you were talking about SimCity, and I know that game that is Saint-Eustatius SimCity. No, I realized that before. It's extremely complicated and there was a lot of late maintenance. But I really dare say that we've started the good stuff. Some things just take more time than we expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u106	Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u107	Moving on to that last point. I remember we discussed the bill. We knew that a lot of tasks had not been carried out and that there was a lot of overdue maintenance, as the Secretary of State says. I remember that, during a working visit that the committee made to the island, we found that much more was left behind than was thought in advance. So the task was far greater than expected. Still, I'm curious. The timeline contained in Temporary Law Task Neglect Saint Eustatius was one until February 2021. That must be based on something. So I'm wondering... Of course, a lot has happened, but there is still a very long list ahead of us and a lot of things still have to be taken up that have led to delays due to the way it is organised from the Netherlands and from the departments. Can the Secretary of State reflect on that? How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u108	That date of February 2021 is one of the criteria that we have now set out on that list of 12 and that need to be filled in before you can go to next stages. I expect many can be filled in at that time. The problem that we are facing now in this debate, but that was also a bit of my hesitation in the legislative proposal, which is that you are not yet as far as you really wanted to be on a number of points. Actually, we intended two and a half years ago that there would be a temporary law and that we would go back. Now we've created another "back" step by step back, but if we're three-quarters of a year further than we are now, a lot of those criteria, maybe most of them, could be filled in. And that is also the reference I made to Mr Van Dam. The pace at which you can complete that list and can also guarantee it, because you can check it out, but the vacancies, culture, administrative organisation and the financial and ICT processes must all be in order. Part of it takes its time. But I think that in February 2021 we can say on a whole range of these issues that they have been realized. Only the dilemma was: if we had waited until it had all been realized, we would only have had elections next year and there were disadvantages. That was the dilemma. I'm not saying what's right or wrong. I am trying to point out that you would no longer have had a return to democracy, albeit in a limited sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u109	We now have the task very well in view, just to express it. We know exactly what needs to be done. Am I to understand that the Secretary of State expects that it could simply be completed in February 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u110	I understand the question. It can be interpreted as a commitment. Based on the plans we have now, my estimate is that one could be ready for the next phase by early 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u111	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u112	We have said that the criteria are guiding. Not until you've met that, you can go through. Based on the planning and assessment I have now, that is real. It also depends on whether there are any setbacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u113	If that is the expectation, I understand that the Secretary of State is now retiring a little bit, then it is very relevant that we are trying to give it some urgency here and to keep pressure on it, also in order to stimulate developments in the right direction. When it's formulated so openly, I just don't know where it ends. And of course, it's a little difficult to look ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u114	That sounds a little dramatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u115	We're not doing anything very light-hearted here. It's an administrative procedure and it's just really big. It is about reducing temporary facilities and restoring order and democracy on Statia. That's a big thing, and we can't let that go a little bit between our fingers. That impression is given a little bit in the second answer. It would be nice if that impression could be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u116	On the contrary. I have already argued at the beginning of this debate that the moment you move to the next stage is determined by whether you have met the criteria. So it's not time-bound. That's what I said. I'm just trying to give a fair estimate based on your question of when you could move on to a next phase, to the next phase. At the heart of the proposal now before us is that it is not end date so that we must all have achieved it by a certain date. Perhaps that was the discussion two and a half years ago, but the essence of this proposal is that we go back step by step. You can only take the next step if you have met the criteria. My estimate is that, if everything goes the way I think it goes, you could go to the second phase at the beginning of 2021, but for that we also depend on others, including the new island council that will be elected at the end of this year. That is the stage in which delegates can be appointed and in which more tasks will be assigned to the island council. This is very concrete and in the short term: within six months after the island council took office. This as an indication of what I estimate might happen. The essence of this law is correct: first to achieve the goals and then to move on. If it's going to take a month longer because the targets haven't been met, so be it. Of course, I want it as soon as possible, but it has to be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u117	It takes two to tango. I think it is true that this island council and the restoration by the law are a priority. But then I look at our social agreement. That was 70% of 100% standard of living, because things came up from the Netherlands and the economy had to come up, and now covid is added. We have just found that the island economy is extremely vulnerable and that it is not in order within six months, and that poverty, water supply and everything related to it, for the people at the bottom of society, is a real tragedy. Then I think: what are we going to do from the Netherlands to give it another boost, so that these people get some perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u118	We need to distinguish between the twelve criteria set out in the September 2019 letter, which focus on good governance, good public finances, the official organisation, regulations, procedures and so on, as described in the explanatory memorandum, and the issues that you mention about additional resources for, for example, under stand and income. Those substantive issues actually apply in one form or another to all the BES islands. In practice, that comes together, of course, but here we are talking very emphatically about the legislative proposal on returning to a new situation as a follow-up to the Temporary Act on the neglect of a job. There are, above all, the points I have just mentioned. This is without prejudice to the fact that this other process is continuing, including the discussion about the Council of State, the ibo, which means COOVID-19 for the islands and how we are going to think about the future. If I mirror it on Saint-Eustatius, it also seems to me to be the case with the new island council, which hopefully arrives at the end of this year, which is what the discussion is about. We can ask that island council how they see it. We can ask: you have been elected by the people of Saint-Eustatius, where are we going? So that's not a story of how we've done it in the last two years, and you're addressing me directly. This will soon become a co-production, especially at the stage where there is still a hybrid situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u119	Are you going to finish? Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u120	In my view, this was the answer to the last question in the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u121	Thank you. I'm looking at the MPs to see if they need a second term. Not all of them. We now come to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This bill is once again a far-reaching decision, but it is not without reason. There is a heavy responsibility on us to bring democracy and elected governance back. In the meantime, there really needs to be improvement in the facilities. We just talked about the water shortage. In that respect, I think that everything really needs to be done. The Secretary of State has made a commitment. However, my name is under a motion which Mrs Diertens will be tabling shortly. Besides, I have a motion of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Law on Restoration Provisions of Saint-Eustatius expires on 1 September 2024;]] [[Whereas return to full democratic relations in phases requires not only substantive criteria, but also clear milestones over time for accountability and supervision;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the Government Commissioner to draw up, in consultation with the Island Council of Saint-Eustatius, a route timetable for return to regular administrative relations, and to inform the Chamber thereof before 1 February 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Özütok, Mr Van Dam, Mr Bosman, Mr Diertens, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35422-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u124	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I'll see who needs a second term. Mr Van Raak and Mrs Kuik do not have that. Did I miss you, Mrs. Diertens? No, you're coming. You're already ready, but you're gonna be fine. First, Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to all the questions that have passed. It was not just a lack of water, but also a lack of democracy. We're all focusing on growing it, I think. I had three motions. There's one of them left. You'll be pleased, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a well-functioning island council is essential for the restoration of local democracy on Saint-Eustatius;]] [[Whereas a well-functioning independent Registry is indispensable for this purpose;]] [[noting that the draft law (Article 5) initially places the role of island griffin with the island secretary, which is a matter of state law;]] [[invites the Government to recruit and appoint as soon as possible a 15-minute island griffin who, pending the final appointment of an island griffin by the island council, will form the new Registry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam, Bosman and Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35422-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u126	I have a very brief explanation. I have no doubt that the Quartermaker-island griffin ultimately functions under the authority of the island secretary and the government commissioner. That is the construction proposed in Article 5 of the law. This motion does not want to change that much either. Otherwise, I would have come up with an amendment. In particular, this motion aims to create a separate, recognizable figure alongside the island secretary to set up that Registry. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u127	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I'm gonna wait for the cathedral to be cleaned. Mrs Diertens has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his clear explanation. I've begun to hope. I remain hopeful and optimistic. Restoring democracy is extremely important. This is a very valuable asset. It is also important to involve young people. The role of the National Representation comes back, because it is also part of a democracy that we do things right and right and put the responsibilities where they do not conflict with each other. I'm happy with the library's design, if this goes on. Finally, I have a motion on the water problem. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that water is a first need for life;]] [[noting that the water supply on Saint Eustatius is limited, while hygiene rules, such as regular hand washing, are essential to prevent the spread of the virus at the time of the corona crisis;]] [[Considers that residents of Saint-Eustatius cannot wait six months for the availability of sufficient running water;]] [[calls on the Government to provide urgent assistance to regulate the water supply for each household on Saint-Eustatius,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diertens, Mr Kuik, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Özütok, Mr Van Dam, Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35422-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u129	I'm looking at Mrs. Van der Graaf. No? I forget to turn off the microphone every time, thank you very much. Would you like a five-minute suspension, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u130	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Members for their contribution to the second term. This was a bit shorter, but I think the debate was about the core: how can you restore democracy and how can you guarantee at the same time that the efforts made in recent years will also be successful? The Chamber has been on top of it in recent times, in a positive way. I have heard very well that this commitment remains the same. That's how I feel. This is, I think, a very good basis for continuing to achieve results in the next phase, because much remains to be done. First of all, I would like to mention Mrs Özütok's motion, on item No. 8. This one is widely signed. The motion calls on the Government to urge the Government Commissioner to draw up, in consultation with the Island Council of Saint-Eustatius, a route-time table for return to regular administrative relations and to inform the Chamber thereof before 1 February 2021. With the remark that, as I have just said, time is the resultant of achieving the goals, it seems logical to me that the new island council should discuss with the government Commissioner what we are going to do at what point. I think this is fine. I'll discuss this with them, too. This is part of the normal planning in that new role after the elections. As soon as we know more about this, we can take this into account in the progress report. This could well be before 1 February 2021. In the discussion between the Government Commissioner and the Island Council one can discuss how one looks at it, what one is going to do in the near future and how this relates to the list of criteria. I have just said to Mrs Van der Graaf that I expect some of these criteria to be fulfilled at this time of day. So I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 9 by Mr Van Dam, Mr Bosman and Mrs Van der Graaf on the duties of Registrar. It's just how you fly this motion and what conclusion you come to. Look, the law is the law. I have heard Mr van Dam say: I have not tabled an amendment. It has become a motion, but if it had been an amendment, it would immediately have had direct effect and something else would have been included in Article 5. That is not the case now. I see this motion above all, but I would like to put it to the vote, as a call for no time to be wasted and to make as much use as possible of the knowledge available about the establishment of a Registry and not to invest it directly with the island secretary. That's how I read the motion. We're already thinking about how we're gonna do that right now. I also mentioned earlier in the debate that this responsibility was invested in the law with the island secretary. But you can, of course, let the post and the official who's going to do it be someone else. I think that's the wallet of the motion. If that is the case, then I can leave this motion to the House's judgment and we can see how we are going to implement it in practice in the near future. The final decision on that clerk will, of course, have to be taken by the newly elected island council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u132	Mr. Van Dam, a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u133	I can live with this appreciation. That's short enough, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u134	Oh, that's fine. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u135	So the law doesn't change and the responsibility remains with the island secretary, but we're going to see if we can do that with another official. Then the motion to part No. 10 by Mrs Diertens and others. This is a broadly signed motion calling on the government to provide urgent assistance to regulate the water supply for each household on Saint-Eustatius. I agree with everything that has been said about this, because this should simply be well arranged. We have a long-term path and a short-term path with emergency measures. I will be able to understand myself with IenW's colleague, who is responsible for this. I can therefore leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u137	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled and on the legislative proposal. I thank the Secretary of State and I thank the MPs, the messengers, the clerks and the people in the public gallery.
