ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes, on behalf of the CDA, to answer his question on the declining supply of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The housing crisis is now a housing shortage. That is what NVM Chairman Onno Hoes said last Thursday, and in my view it is right. Whether it's start-ups or older people, finding a suitable living space at a decent price has become virtually impossible for many people. That has several reasons, but the most important one is simply that there is a considerable shortage of hundreds of thousands of homes. Especially in and around urban areas, this is a major problem, while living is a basic social right that a government has to take care of. In my view, this is not enough, despite all the good intentions of Minister Van Veldhoven. It is only by saying that 75 000 homes must be built that we will not be able to get there. The facts show that the realisation creates shortages in the housing market. It is not the first time that my group has drawn attention to this. Since joining this cabinet, we've been asking for more homes. The Minister's intentions and plans are good, but the desired results are lagging behind. There's just too few of them. Not only nitrogen and pfas are the causes. Already in the first two quarters of this year, we saw that the licence issuances were falling. The question arises as to whether the objective of 75 000 dwellings is still sufficient. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. The Prime Minister has said that municipalities can receive a so-called designation if they fail in their task of building houses. At the end of last year I tabled a motion along with the VVD. The Minister then promised to talk to the city of Utrecht about the construction of Rijnenburg. How's that going? What came out of that conversation and when is Utrecht going to hit the first pole for those 25,000 homes? We asked the same question about the former airport Valkenburg. We would also like to know what the situation is. Is the Minister also prepared to sit on it for a shorter period and report more frequently on the state of play? Is it prepared to give provinces a role in ensuring sufficient housing? As in the past, this role should not consist of slowing down housing. No. Give them the task to make sure that the realization of that housing is actually achieved and so there are enough locations. Provinces also have this role in other parts, such as ensuring adequate housing for status holders. It seems to me at least no more than normal that the provinces should also be given this role for our own inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes speaks of a "big deficit." I think that a lot of people actually literally run into it in practice, such as people who might like to leave their parents' house to live independently, people who might want to start a family, or people who might want to move out, but can't find a home. Mr Ronnes called for attention to be paid to the urban area. I think he is of the opinion that we should not confuse that with the Randstad, because in Nijmegen, for example, the deficit is relatively highest. So it really is a problem for the whole of the Netherlands, and the cabinet has an absolute eye for it. The first step was mapping and making agreements on how many homes we are going to realize, namely 75,000 homes per year. But it did not end with an agreement, because last September the cabinet released 2 billion in order to ensure that affordable housing becomes available where it is squeezed, both in the rental and in the purchasing sectors. But before you can build, build, build, you have to plan, plan, plan. I know that Mr Ronnes is actually calling for attention to be paid to planning capacity. Are there enough places in the Netherlands, so that we can also realize those homes, even if something falls out every now and then? That's incredibly important. We certainly appeal to the provinces and the municipalities. You mentioned the example of Utrecht. There they were indeed structurally below the planning capacity. You asked me to make conversations. I did. In the meantime, Utrecht has said: we are going to introduce this 130% planning capacity. That's crucial, because things are always disappointing. There are always things that are delayed. So you need more space, especially given the recent forecasts of the CBS. Mr Ronnes is right to draw attention to this. Things are growing faster than we anticipated. With the current package of measures, we have made every effort to build those 75,000 homes a year, but more is simply needed. In any case, more planning capacity is needed. We will have to have a future vision of what is needed and what kind of housing is needed. At the same time, we must build as much as possible in the short term as quickly as possible. I am happy to keep the Chamber informed of the progress we are making. I believe that we now have quarterly reports so that the Chamber can be properly taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	In the example of Rijnenburg, the Minister very quickly talks about the task that only Utrecht knows, but places where you can just build 25,000 homes are not present in abundance. If you look at Rijnenburg, I think you should look not only at the importance of the municipality of Utrecht, but also at the importance of the Randstad. The moment you develop Rijnenburg with 25,000 homes and you have good connections, not only to Utrecht, but also from Rijnenburg to The Hague and Amsterdam, this could be a top regional additional number of homes for the great need there is. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Op het moment dat zowel het Rijk en de provincies als de gemeenten waar de grond in ligt zich daarvoor inzetten, zou je voor meerdere steden ...]] That is a drop on the glowing plate, but many drops also fill a bucket. So let's bet on just the extra places where we can develop those large numbers of homes. Is the Minister prepared to re-examine this underlying interest and see if we can quickly develop that place, if necessary with an indication?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Ronnes draws attention to two things, namely the super-municipal importance of some housing locations. He's doing the right thing. People want to live in a particular region more often than specifically in municipalities A or B, as long as they can easily come to work or live in the place where they want to live. So that is what is important, and we must bear that in mind. Of course, it is primarily up to municipalities and provinces to determine where exactly is built. As long as we are able to fill in the task, which is also there in the region, there is no need to say: we just want it to be in meadow A or in meadow B. This is primarily for municipalities and provinces. But if there are situations in which that really does not lead to a solution, then there is the instrument of clue. Eventually, as a Empire, you have to be willing to look at it. It is not about where you start, because you just start by laying down the responsibility where it belongs, namely with the municipality and the province. Valkenburg is also mentioned. We all know we've been talking about that for a long time. If that does not ultimately lead to a solution, this is also an instrument that is in the toolbox and you must be prepared to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finalizing, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	One final question, the crucial question, to the Minister: does she agree with me that the moment of use of that instrument has come very close? Is it prepared to conduct these talks with the regions in this way, so that they know that the government will not hesitate to use that instrument and take it out of that toolbox?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	I see a distinction between Utrecht, where it has now been said to go to a planning capacity of 130%. This is what we want to do. We do not care which pasture these houses are in, as long as they are there for that region. As for Katwijk, we're in a different situation. There is also a super-regional interest. That's where it's been very difficult, for a long time. In the end, you have to be prepared to look at that instrument if you do not come to a solution quickly, because there is a real hurry to get those homes just realized in that region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ronnes. Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	The article that gave rise to this question also contained another very interesting point, namely the prices of the re-produced houses. They're heading for the four tons. That does not seem to me to be an affordable price for a start in the housing market for a start. My question is: do you agree with D66 when we say that there should also be much more really affordable homes, for example for all those seniors who are stuck in a fine, large family home when they may not even be able to go up the stairs, but can also not flow to a really affordable senior home? Shouldn't there just be more numbers, but also just affordable properties?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	Absolutely. More needs to be built in the cheap and affordable segment. That is also what the cabinet is sending out with the 2 billion. 'Cause that's exactly where it gets tight on the housing market. That is where more needs to be made available. Municipalities can, of course, also play an important role in this with the request for a certain housing location. We will therefore have to work hard on this with all parties. In addition, we also have the question of flow. For example, people who are now in a rental house, such as a single-family house, and who would like to go to a smaller apartment should pay a higher rent. That is why, logically, they cannot afford to do so from the point of view of their situation. We need to find solutions to this problem together, because all these measures are going to help us make better use of the housing stock we have and build it better for the demand we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	As Mr Ronnes said, CDA and VVD work together in the housing sector. We have been talking about a lead for a long time, but I heard Mr Ronnes propose a task for provinces. I find that interesting. The VVD has also been considering a task for provinces for a longer time. I do have a question for the Minister. Is she willing, for example, to look at a discount on the Province Fund for provinces that are doing badly and, for example, something extra for provinces that are doing better? Is she specifically willing to look at a discount when it comes to Utrecht at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	We're going in really big seven-mile boots right now. I believe that we have made the arrangements initially in the housing deals to ensure that what is needed is realised. I think that is the instrument we have now. In addition, there is the 2 billion, with which we as a Empire put butter on the fish and with which we ensure that the municipalities and provinces are able to realize that. That seems to me to be the first step, but I take Mr Koerhuis's idea with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	There is a huge shortage of housing, especially in social housing, even about 80,000. What we don't hear from the minister is that since 2014, more than 80,000 social rental homes have been given away to status holders. That happened with the greatest ease, or even more importantly: with priority. That while the Dutch are not given priority and must be on the waiting list for years. Then the question is: is that not fair to all those Dutch people who are simply discriminated against? The next question is to the Minister: when is she going to do something about it, for example by sending back all those status holders and assigning all the homes released to the Dutch, for whom these homes are intended?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	This is a recurring theme of Mr Knops on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes, Mr. Kops. The real solution is of course to build more and to make more homes available to everyone. In addition, the priority setting has already changed in municipalities. So as far as that goes, these people have to be able to live somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	The Christian Union wants us to move from housing market to housing. This means that when we talk about housing, we should not only look at the numbers, but also at what exactly we are building. In fact, I see two specific target groups that we should better serve. On the one hand, the young people and the people in the shelter, for whom flex homes would be a good solution. On the other hand, the elderly, who are now often stuck in their homes and are unable to move on to a shelter or similar, are a nursing home 2.0. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to make specific agreements with municipalities and regions in order to achieve these specific types of housing precisely for these two, three target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mrs Dik-Faber calls for attention to be paid to two different specific groups. We've already made agreements for flex housing. Municipalities and provinces, in my opinion, have even received €250,000 to develop such flex houses. All kinds of congresses are held in various provinces about how to build flex houses, how they work, what are best practices and the like. There will soon be a national congress on flex houses. This is, therefore, particularly important. The broader point that Mrs Dik-Faber is asking is: are we building future-proof? Are we building what's needed for those groups that need it? I think we can even extend that analysis with the recent CBS figures on the even higher growth of the Dutch population. At the same time, we see that an entire group of baby boomers may be in need of a different kind of housing and we see that the group 80-plussers is growing. So there are a lot of elements in that housing market. All this needs to be more appropriate. We must have a coherent policy for this. So I would not like to focus on just those two aspects, but these are two very important aspects that should indeed be included in the overall picture of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	The House of Representatives finds the housing policy of this cabinet cap. From left to right, the Chamber says: there is a shortage of housing and too little is happening. The VVD is still trying to pin the blame on left-wing municipalities and threaten some discounts, but the problem is that there is no fundamental approach to housing shortage by this cabinet. Are the cabinet and this minister prepared to intervene in the protection of rents and to extend them to invest much more than the 100 million a year that the cabinet makes available, to build more houses and, for example, to give Groningen and Leeuwarden the space to introduce a residence obligation, so that these houses are no longer abused by investors who ask for towering rents, but are again used for what they are for, namely to live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	The cabinet spends more than 100 million. We pay 2 billion for detaching the housing market, both for sale and for rent. We've made all kinds of agreements about housing for the next few years. In addition, we really look in the width at what is needed. Mr Nijboer also knows that there are still a number of amendments adopted by the Chamber which also see better protection and less excesses in the rental market. On all these aspects we are in conversation and the cabinet wants to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	Housing shortage, housing crisis; what should we call it? In 2013, the House Awards Committee already advised the Parliament that the cabinet could also be held responsible for building production, especially in case of market failure. My question to the Minister is: has that moment come? When is the Minister really going to intervene? In a while we'll be looking for bigger metaphors. What else can you find other than "dwelling crisis" or "dwelling shortage"? When is the Minister really going to intervene? Or are we just gonna leave it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	Instead of focusing on terms, let's build on it. That's exactly what the Cabinet does. First of all, of course, we have agreed on the housing agenda. That is where the task has really been mapped out. A specific agreement has been made for 75,000 homes per year. There is 2 billion added, both on the rental side and on the construction side. We have concluded residential deals with very specific regions on the production of the homes that are needed. There's a bet on flex houses. A variety of ways in the rental market are trying to ensure that the flow is promoted and excessive rents are addressed. So there's a whole package. Mr Azarkan is right to draw attention to this, because it is a very big issue. People want a house. They want something that fits their living conditions. That requires a lot of attention and a lot of steps and so does the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you.
