ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on legislative proposal 35434, temporary provisions in the field of the Ministry of Justice and Security in connection with the outbreak of COVID-19 (Temporary Law COVID-19 Justice and Security). I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection to the First Chamber. I repeat that the fixed interrupt microphones, which are operated by hand, have been replaced by a microphone that can be operated by the foot. I would also like to inform Members that if you submit a motion, you will have to read the text yourself and then put this motion on the front bench to my right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The threat of an uncontrollable spread of the coronavirus calls for emergency measures, including in the area of Justice and Security. These measures should help to ensure that citizens' rights and freedoms are not unduly restricted. This involves ensuring access to justice and justice. From my other work as a lawyer, I can say that at the moment this is certainly at stake now that courts are almost closed and most cases are kept for an indefinite period. In recent weeks steps have also been taken within the judiciary to deal with and deal with cases using digital means of communication. I have nothing but appreciation for the commitment from the dishes, but also from the p.i.Let's see. However, on the basis of my own perception and the signals I get from legal practice, I can also say that this is not always smooth, both in preparation and in implementation. The present temporary law focuses, among other things, on the use on a larger scale and also without the consent of process parties of holding sessions via digital connections, such as telehearsals or audioconferencing. We support this, but we explicitly support it as a second. For as far as we are concerned, it is still preferable to hold physical sessions, where process parties and process participants can also be physically present. Everything must be done to ensure that this is done in a safe manner. The adoption of this bill should not be the signal that digital plenary sessions must now be fully deployed. Does the Minister agree with us? We thank the Minister for the speedy answer to our questions. We welcome the commitment to send to the Chamber, after the expiry of the law, an overview of the AMvBs and the ministerial arrangements which have been omitted under the law. The answer to our questions about digital participation in criminal hearings raised a few further questions for our group. In his reply, the Minister states that if a judge considers that the circumstances are such that one of the trial participants cannot or no longer participate fully in a criminal hearing, the judge may, for example, decide to stay the case. We consider this to be rather cautious. Is there, in the view of the Minister, any other option before the courts than to hold the case if one of the trial participants who would like to participate in the trial is unable or no longer able to do so? For the record, I am talking not only about the officer, the suspect and the defendant's attorney, but also about victims, next of kin and their attorney. In other words, can the right of all trial participants to participate in full treatment be guaranteed? I'd like a clear and clear answer. Our second supplementary question concerns the telehearing and financing facility. The Minister states that an increase in capacity is needed, which is still often limited to the availability of one space per p.i. The Minister also says that funding is one of the limiting factors for achieving more treatment via telehearing or video connection. This raises the question of what the Minister is doing to facilitate capacity expansion, both in terms of regulation and in terms of funding. It cannot be the case that the expansion of telehearing capacity is entirely dependent on the already unexploited budgets of the p.i.What about the dishes? We assume that there is also something to be found in the deep pockets of the government for this necessary expenditure. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. My group was therefore in principle sufficiently informed about this Temporary Law COVID-19 of JenV, but last night a notary called me and said: there may still be some errors in that law. I would like to take this opportunity to have a brief debate to put these two questions to the Minister and then make a brief comment. I'll start with those two questions. This concerns Article 26 of the Temporary Act. It expressly derogates from Article 102 of the Book 4 of the Civil Code. It is, moreover, a special article, because it already takes account of contamination. But in the temporary law there is a deviation from that. We're talking about making out wills. You can now draw up a will by means of telehears, the so-called Skypetestament. No derogation has been made from Article 107 of the Book 4. As a result, six months after this temporary law has ceased to exist, the wills made up as Skypetestament may be destroyed and their monetary strength may be lost. That means that people have to go back to the notary. That seems to be an undesirable consequence. I can see that correctly, so I ask the Minister. And if so, can you confirm that Article 26 of the Temporary Law is also intended to derogate from Article 107 Book 4 Civil Code? That's technique one. The second point concerns Article 26 of the proposal before us today, which is foreign. This applies to all acts, not only wills, but also, for example, if you sign a power of attorney to obtain a mortgage deed. In the answers we read that it is possible to contact the notary again via Skype, but that this does not apply when the person is abroad. Why? The notary cannot check at all whether someone in the Netherlands or Spain is behind the Skype. He can check if someone is Dutch. So the moment he's betrayed, that deed is also destructive again. I don't think that's a good idea either. In addition, it solves a number of practical problems. Previous treatment concerned Germany, where there is no practical problem, but with Spain, for example. There you need a notary for a will or mortgage. Those notaries lie still; they don't work. Moreover, they do not understand much of Dutch law. So it would really help if people, who cannot come to the Netherlands, could just get in touch with the notary from Spain. Those deeds are passing through the Netherlands; at least, I assume that the place where a deed is lost is the place where the notary is, and that is in the Netherlands. Can it not be that telehearing around Article 26 of the bill also has its effect for Dutch residents living in the Netherlands, but who are now, probably forced to stay abroad? Finally, I would like to make a comment. Prior to this law, I had great concerns about people who are getting more and more in debt. In the media, we mainly read about companies with problems, but a lot of individuals are going to have major financial problems, and they will end up with the canton judge, while the collection continues. I thought, "Is that okay?" I've been convinced by the Minister's answers, who says you can stop the collection, but that doesn't stop the debt. In fact, they are getting bigger and getting people into more trouble. Okay, for this law, I'm done with that. However, my appeal is for the Minister, as a member of this cabinet, to look very closely at how those vulnerable people, who see their income disappear, who are often already in debt or on the brink, are not pushed further into financial misery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. The Minister says he can answer immediately. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u7	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to your room, too. These are special times, especially when you see such a half-empty room. I would also like to thank you very much for the speedy examination of this urgent legislative proposal. It's special to see that when the need is real to the man, things can happen quickly. They are also necessary because, or indeed, at these exceptional times, I agree with Mrs De Boer's argument that we must stick to the principles of the rule of law: legal protection and access to justice. Because even now, people can get in trouble. This urgent legislative proposal can help because it offers a number of possibilities for the process of justice, even at a time when physical sessions are not always possible or sometimes limited, to proceed as far as possible. This applies not only to the courtroom, but also, for example, to shareholders' meetings or the passing of deeds by a notary. Mr. Chairman. Just a few questions. Mrs De Boer indicated that it would be preferable for physical sessions to take place. I think the answer to that is yes. The justice system has had to say... Well, I wouldn't say that the case law has said "we close our courts," because in recent weeks there has been just work in the courts, but they have been closed to the public and trial parties. There's been a lot of video and a lot of writing. We are currently working very hard to make more and more physical sessions possible. Mrs De Boer knows that, I think, like no other from her profession. In consultation with the NOvA we are also looking at whether we can not organize many more sessions, including physical sessions, not only by telehears, but perhaps also by means of the 1.5 meter society: routing, stripes on the floors, limited presence and more space. This period has taught us that the introduction of all kinds of digital possibilities, which would normally have taken a lot longer but which have now suddenly been created within two or three weeks, for example, look at the safe e-mailing and the connections for telehearing. I hope we don't throw away those benefits immediately after we're done with corona. But then we can start from the preferred option outlined by Mrs De Boer. Her question was: what about the participation of process parties or process participants? If participation is not possible by telehearing or by means of a two-sided connection, a court may decide to stay the case. I don't think there are a lot of other options. You can try to reset the technique and get everything back to work, but as far as I am concerned it is quite clear that all parties who have to participate in a case, a hearing, can actually participate actively in it. This legislative proposal extends the scope for this. What then helps is that, in the near future, we will also be looking at the possibility of extending the telehearing links even further. Such links are now at least with all prisons and detention centres, but their capacity is limited. This means that they can be used for the very urgent matters. It is often also short in time. We would like to expand that, but there's always a price to pay, so we need to see how we finance it. In the end, it's one big pot of money. It's not like we have poor justice and a poor DJI and a very rich government. All of this comes from a single budget and from a single budget. But these conversations are being held, also because I do believe that good tele-hearing connections are now asking for an investment, but perhaps in the long term they will be able to produce something. Just think of the many vans that commute back and forth every day between prisons and courts to enable the hearings to take place. If you use more telehearing, you'd save a little bit of money on that. We're all trying to fit that in a fair, good and careful way. Mr Recourt had two questions concerning the notary. There is also provision for this in this emergency law to ensure that people can also now go to a notary for, for example, a will or a mortgage bill, if that is not physically possible. This applies specifically to documents for which you normally have to appear in person with the notary. This proposal provides that this can also be done by video connection. Mr Recourt asked about the deeds that have been lost with such a video connection. Are they still valid in the long term? The answer to that is yes. He thus zoomed in on the relationship between Article 26 of this bill and Article 107 of the fourth book of BW. Article 4107 regulates the validity of emergency testaments, which have not been passed by a notary but have been made up by another official, e.g. a mayor. Those emergency tests shall be destructive if they are not confirmed within six months of the end of the state of emergency. Under Article 26 of this bill, a full will is made by the notary, not an emergency testament by anyone other than the notary, as in Article 107 of the fourth book. This means that the acts passed remain valid even after this period. The obligation to appear in person is actually extended to an appearance, also digitally. That does not affect the validity period. Mr Recourt also asked whether Article 26 should not apply to Dutch people who reside abroad and wish to make a will during the corona crisis. The bill doesn't go that far. The Dutch who wish to draw up a will abroad must go to the local authorities, and the international rules of the Hague Testaments Treaty ensure that a will drawn up abroad is valid in the Netherlands as well. The reason why we wanted to limit this is that we looked at the scope of this bill to see how it could fit with the solutions to the problems directly linked to the corona crisis. The bill merely allows the Dutch notary to pass on documents he would draw up under normal circumstances. The notary is also not authorized outside the corona crisis to perform a will for persons who are outside the Netherlands. If you then suddenly broaden that scope, I suspect you will have a more political debate, because then it is about the competence of Dutch notaries to also produce documents outside the Dutch territory. So we didn't want to go that far. There is a route for people abroad, but that is always through local institutions of the country in which they are located. For the sake of completeness, because Mr Recourt asked for that, it is also true now that Article 26 requires a notary to inform himself where a client is. If he's questioning his client's whereabouts, he's gonna have to go through that. It can be digital in principle, but the client has to go to the Netherlands. Finally, the issue of the vulnerable. I take that very much to heart. We have made a decision to allow canton seats to proceed as far as possible. Many of the measures we are taking now are aimed at protecting vulnerable people a little more at the present time. For example, it is much easier to set up a defence. That does not ask to come to the hearing in person or to submit a written defence, but that may be so to speak by e-mail or by telephone. In my view, the bailiffs have also made good arrangements to see what you can do to settle things nicely or to settle with payment arrangements, appropriate to this time of year. Many of the measures we are taking are precisely to see if we can overcome a sudden and rapid decline in people's incomes as much as possible. Mr President, those were my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u8	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. A very short question about funding. I understand that it is not possible to say exactly how this is going to be done, that solutions are being sought in good cooperation, and that it may also be an investment which may prove useful later on. I do not need to see any figures of this now, but what is triggering me, and what triggered me in the first place, is that the answer to the written questions is that funding is a limiting factor in increasing capacity. I don't understand that very well. I understand now that the Minister says he's going to arrange that funding. Then why is that a limiting factor? Maybe he can go into that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u10	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u11	It is a very short, concrete question from Mrs De Boer. Perhaps it was too strongly expressed that this is a limiting factor, but it is a factor that plays a role. We always look at enlargement as to whether it is sensible, whether it is good, not just for now, but also for later. Do we make sense when we expand it, when we invest in it, in the sense that it will still be useful in the future? How are we gonna fit that in? At this time, we are taking great steps in many areas, which cost money. At the same time, we all know that there are deep pockets, but they are not bottomless. In these kinds of things, where financial considerations are also at the basis, we always look at what we are doing wisely. I think that's what it means. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u12	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u13	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-7.u14	Anybody want a note? That is not the case. I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments, pending the arrival of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
