ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Mr Van Raak declaring that there is reason to consider a proposal for a change in the Constitution to include provisions relating to the corrective referendum, Section 35129. Last week, the first term of office was on the agenda and I am very glad that we were able to plan the answers of the initiator the following week. I would, of course, like to welcome Mr Van Raak as initiator. He is supported in box-K by Nicole Temmink, party member of the SP. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Yesterday, the Minister was here as an advisor to the Chamber on sign language. That went really well and it was also very nice. I just wanted to mention that that was a nice debate, and I hope so too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There will be elections in March. Then we, the politicians, ask the voters for their confidence. The question is: do we also dare to ask people to correct us? That's the point. That's what today is all about. Are we prepared to allow ourselves to be corrected by the people who elected us at the time when we adopt laws that they do not seem to want at all? Are we going to strengthen democracy today? Do we give our trust to our constituents? Will there be a binding, corrective referendum? Mr. Chairman. Once I have heard the term of the Chamber, it reassures me and then it looks good. That majority seems to be coming. After 35 years of discussion on referenda, we can now take an important step. I'm a historian. I know you have to be very careful with these words, but it can be an historic moment today. I have to keep everyone friendly today and get everyone along, but I do want to have said a few things. It started with Mr Bosma. He bowed first and then accused me of plagiarism. Then all the spokesmen were going to repeat that to him. I can hear colleagues shouting no from the Chamber. Okay, almost all spokesmen, which in itself is a form of plagiarism. "Show off with other people's feathers," said Mr Bosma. That has taken hold of me, especially because it is true. It's true. I didn't make this law. Mr Sneller is looking at me. This is a law that I myself defended in vain in this Chamber in 2017, but also then I did not invent this law myself. It is originally a law of Mr Duyvendak of GroenLinks, Mr Dubbelboer of the Labour Party and Mr Van der Ham of D66, and later also of Mr Schouw. It is of course beautiful: Mr Sneller was an employee at the time. He may have contributed more to this law than I have. He was also sitting at the time, I remember that at the place where Mrs Temmink is now sitting. That's very special. At the time, I was in the Chamber and I was going to ask questions about this law to Mr Sneller, who was in box K. And now Mr Sneller is in the Chamber asking questions about this law, and I am standing here. If you like absurdism, this is a nice place to work. At least it indicates that this is becoming a common project, and I am proud of that. Mrs Özütok and Mrs Kikk have also stated that the debate on the referendum has continued in their parties. I think that's very nice to hear. It's true: it's an existing law that I got out of the trash. I think now is the time to adopt this law. We are now ready, as the Netherlands and as a parliament, for the binding corrective referendum. I would also like to draw attention to Mr Van Gent, who, of course, saw that I did not write the explanatory memorandum to the law myself either. That was the opinion of the state committee of Johan Remkes. Then Mr Van Gent asked: but how is it that Mr Van Raak is in favour of the opinion of the state committee? I thought that was remarkable. For years I have heard: the SP is against everything, Van Raak is for nothing. Now comes a state committee, which has been set up by the VVD, with an opinion from a chairman from the VVD, and then Mr Van Gent asks how I agree with the opinion of the state committee. I am going to give a proper answer to that later, of course, but I would also say to Mr Van Gent: be happy! You're lucky I'm gonna say yes to something once. Mr Futselaar said: "Mr Van Raak has dealt with this law so many times. Find a hobby." This is my hobby. In 2000, I became politically active. One of the first things I did in the SP at the time was to deal with this referendum. Mr Futselaar is of course right that if this law is passed by this Chamber and by the Upper Chamber, I must look for a new hobby. If he's got another suggestion, I'll keep my recommendation. Mr Sneller spoke of Sisyphus work. He knows his classics. Sisyfus is the man who challenged and punished the gods. He had to push a stone up the mountain for eternity. Just below the top, the stone rolled down again. I don't agree with that image. I feel more at home with the image of the glue. Politics is trying to throw off the referendum, but the harder you throw it out, the firmer it sticks. Until the moment we're ready, until the moment we accept it and say: we don't lose it, let's embrace it. In 2017, this law did not pass through the Chamber. But a lot has happened since then. Shortly afterwards, in November 2017, I was standing here; the minister was there as well. A few months later, the Remkes Committee gave an interim opinion and a final opinion in December 2018. I quote briefly: 'If the substantive representation fails, it can lead to discontent and even alienation of the parliamentary system. Lack of public acceptance of government decisions can make government policies ineffective, damage the basis for political decision-making and undermine the democratic rule of law." One of the reasons why I have made so much use of the opinion of the State Committee is because the State Committee says it so beautifully to me, more beautiful than I could myself. I am also very pleased with the opinion of the Council of State, which calls this form of referendum, a binding corrective referendum, 'a final piece of the representative system'. Another quote from the Council of State: "This study seems to confirm that the possibility of holding a referendum is one of the measures that could contribute to reducing the feelings of isolation, alienation and exclusion existing among certain citizens." I thought Mr Krol said it very nicely in his speech: this referendum is a valve, an emergency brake, a blow off steam, a whistle back. In fact, this referendum does not change at all what we are doing here in Parliament. The cabinet keeps doing what it always did. The Chamber keeps doing what we always did. The Council of State, the journalists, the parliamentary system remains completely intact. All we do is give a valve, an emergency brake, an opportunity to blow off steam, an opportunity to get us whistling back, to get us corrected. If we adopt a law here, if we make a compromise, which is really not supported by a large majority outside this Chamber, then we can be corrected. I see three advantages of this referendum. The first is strengthening parliamentary democracy. I quote the State Committee once again: 'The State Committee sees the binding corrective referendum not as a weakening, but rather as an addition to representative democracy'. And that is important, because in the past the main argument against the referendum was that it would be contrary to our parliamentary democracy. We have a representative system and the referendum is a form of direct democracy. For a long time, the idea was that the two would collide wouldn't fit together. I am very pleased that both the State Commission and the Council of State say: no, that is not true; that referendum as it is now being proposed is a strengthening of our parliamentary system. A second point that I think is very important is that this referendum also strengthens our polder policy. The state committee says: "The binding referendum promotes the government's willingness to take more explicit account of the views of the population." We are a country of minorities. Soon I will be three: Brabander, Catholic and Socialist. We are all minorities. We are even part of more minorities. We have a long tradition, perhaps starting with Van Oldenbarnevelt, of polders; minorities who find their place in our country, in our community. Polder politics also means that there must be support for compromises. In our polder policy, in our political culture, compromises are made. At the same time, there must be support for these compromises. That is what this referendum is helping to do. At a time when compromises are being made that cannot count on the support of a large majority of the population outside, then that is not good either; then the polder is overflowing. In that sense, I also see this referendum as a dike around the polder. I see the referendum not as a threat to our polder policy, but as a protection of it. A third point is the strengthening of the representative function of this Chamber. I quote again the state committee, this time a bit longer quote. "Especially as far as citizens are concerned, the binding corrective referendum can also be an important tool to ensure involvement in the political system. The referendum involves a wider section of the population in the decision-making process. It is precisely those groups of citizens who are less involved in representative democracy and the parliamentary system and who do not make use of other channels of political participation - lower and middle-level, for example - that are particularly welcome in the referendum (as an instrument)." I often quote the state committee because I can't do it better myself. The referendum can also help to promote confidence in politics, especially those groups of voters who risk losing or having lost confidence in politics. The vast majority of the population want a referendum. Why? They want to trust us, but they can trust us more if they can also correct us. It helps to give citizens who may not be involved in politics every day a chance to be involved when they consider it necessary. They leave the politics to the representatives they have elected, but that is easier if you also have a way of correcting those same people's representatives if they feel that things are going wrong here. It is a law that was originally submitted by other parties. There's an explanation from the State Commission and the Council of State. I really think of myself here today as a trial counselor. I want the referendum to pass, this referendum. Some of you have asked: Mr. Van Raak, what do you think? What is your opinion on this and on that? I have an opinion on a lot of things and certainly on the referendum, but that doesn't matter very much. I am defending this referendum here. I am not defending the referendum that I might want in an ideal world. I am defending the referendum that I believe can come after 35 years. Mr Baudet had some very interesting suggestions: the initial referendum, to hold a referendum on the transfer of sovereignty over Europe, but also on municipal reclassifications. Actually, I'm all for that, but that's not this bill. This bill is a binding corrective referendum; a referendum that I think can really make it. And I'd like to defend that here. I found Mr Bosma's remark that the people here are often less popular than democracy, very nice too. To a large extent, I agree with his analysis of the gap that has arisen. I do not think that this gap has ever been removed or that there has ever been no gap between citizens and government, but we are now living in a period where that gap is felt more and people also accept that gap less. It is also an important reason for this referendum to correct this gap, if the people so wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u4	I would just like to make sure that I have understood Mr Van Raak's words correctly. Is he actually saying that he agrees with me, that there should be more referendum opportunities, ideally, but that this relatively limited but already binding referendum is the most feasible at the moment and that he therefore wants to keep it there and not expand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u5	Yeah, I think we can make this. I think we can work with this, practice with this. And what brings the future? I agree with Mr Baudet that it also makes sense for me, Ronald van Raak, to hold a referendum at other times, for example when there is a transfer of sovereignty, because sovereignty is something that I think we share with the people rather than with the administrators. You can't outsource that. I can also imagine something in an initiating referendum. But that's all future music. Is it ever gonna come of it? We do not know, but at least this is something I think and hope there is a large majority for in the Second and Upper Chambers. So let's do this and who knows what the future will bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u6	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Bishop for his comments on a certain persistence. Yes, thank you. I hope it works. He also asked about my views on the referendum. I hope I have just made it clear in my reply that I am going for this referendum, the referendum that can be held. Broad support is also needed, especially in view of the second reading later on after the elections. Mr Futselaar asked why I think that thinking about referenda has changed. It's been 35 years. When I started this topic in 2000, there was some doubt about that in the SP. At that time, the referendum was also seen as something for highly educated, mature citizens who wanted to influence decision-making as individuals. The referendum wasn't really very popular among ordinary people. You can see that's changed a lot in 20 years. Especially among groups of people who now feel a distance from politics, who are not engaged in politics every day, this means is very popular. Why? If we ask those people to trust us, it helps if they can correct us. And I think that's a great social development. It is, of course, very strange to see what kind of winding roads, U-turns and Y-constructions this law has gone through. But maybe it needs that, too. Maybe it takes so long sometimes until the moment is there; it could be. Mrs. Kuik says we need to look for new roads. I see that in the Labour Party the law is originally also the Labour Party's law at first was somewhat more critical of it and that it is now positive again. I like that. That's the way it's supposed to be. A discussion on such an important law on the establishment of our parliamentary democracy may take some time. She also said very nicely: a majority can also draw power towards them. That's right. But this referendum is not a referendum by which a majority can simply impose its will on a minority. No, this referendum is as follows. A compromise is being reached, interests are being weighed here. There will be polder-politics companies here and people will have the opportunity, if they wish and find it necessary, to pull the brake and correct us if they feel that this polder-politics does not lead to an outcome that has support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u9	Let me say the following in the interest of legal history. Polderpolitics is indeed about what agreements have been made and whether, as the initiator of a referendum, you think it is something else. However, many of the examples mentioned here in the Chamber have assumed that a referendum always gives a minority a vote. But it may also be the majority who would like to present something with regard to a polder compromise. That's what I wanted to say. This is very close, because otherwise it is as if it is always a minority who opposes the majority, but that does not have to be the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u10	I very much agree with Mrs Kuik. We are all part of a minority and often of several minorities. The idea of this law is really that if compromises are made here in the Chamber, the other side of the coin is that such a compromise must also have sufficient support. This referendum is not easy. There will be thresholds. We'll talk about that later. A large majority of the population will have to vote against such a law. This means that the compromise or the law does not have sufficient support. Next, it is up to the Chamber and the Cabinet, to all players here in The Hague, to make another law that has sufficient support. We are the people's representatives enough to understand or feel what is necessary. If we persist in things that the population really doesn't want, we can be whistled back again. But that's the risk we're taking. Mrs. Kuik also says that this is going on for a long time to come. That's right. I am going to talk about all kinds of amendments that have been tabled. But I think we should also look at after the elections. After the election, this law will come back again. I'm not gonna defend him. I'm gonna defend someone else. And then a two-thirds majority is needed. So we will also have to create a law with thresholds that can count on a large majority in this Chamber. Mrs Özütok also mentions the law as a good addition to the parliamentary system. I'm very happy about that. She has tabled an amendment on the waterboards. They weren't in her party's original bill. I have absolutely no objection to that. I think that is a good addition, so thank you very much for that. So I can only say that I very much welcome that amendment. She also asked what I think the process will look like. This is an amendment to the Constitution. The Constitution actually contains the basic provisions of our political system. It doesn't contain all kinds of performances. In the end, however, thresholds will also have to be set: the number of signatures to be collected to enable a referendum to be held and perhaps also a threshold of outcome to see when the referendum is valid. These are matters which, in my opinion, do not fit in with the Constitution. They are not constitutional in nature. They don't belong in the Constitution. But they have to be determined. Luckily, you don't have to do that today. Today we all have to take the decision of principle: do we want or do we not want such a referendum? The law will then be re-examined here after the elections. There must then be a two-thirds majority for the law and there must therefore be a two-thirds majority for those thresholds. There's a difference of opinion on that. The SP is for low thresholds; I'm sure. Other parties, including the Christian Union, are at high thresholds. We're gonna have to figure that out. And not just like that. No, there must be a two-thirds majority for that. Therefore no man's threshold shall it be; my threshold not, thy threshold not, none's threshold. There will be a threshold that can count on a two-thirds majority. Which thresholds are those, I don't know. I note, however, that the Remkes State Commission has made suggestions for this, both for the signatures to be collected and for the outcome threshold that determines when the outcome is valid. I like that. I do not want to say that I personally agree with those thresholds, as far as I am concerned, but I think it is good and important that the state committee has given a very serious kick-off for that discussion. I can therefore very well imagine that the thresholds proposed by the Remkes State Committee will be the starting point for the discussion. I'd like to take a look at that with special interest. I'm doing it here now, but I might do it after the election where Mrs Temmink is. I will hear from you which thresholds can count on a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u11	My specific question is about these thresholds. Mr Van Raak is now discussing this in detail. In addition to the State Commission, the Council of State has recommended that it should now be included, so that the citizens who have ideas about the referendum will see where they stand. Yet you do not choose to do so. It's not quite clear to me why you're deviated from two important advices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u12	The Council of State says you should include this in the Constitution. The state committee says it isn't. I disagree with the Council of State. I'm sorry, but I don't think this is constitutional. I don't think it fits in with the Constitution. For example, we have recently removed the appointment of the mayor from the Constitution, or we are going to take it out of the Constitution. These are real performance things. The Constitution lays the foundation of our system, of our politics. Implementation must be carried out in implementing laws. But certainly in the area of obtaining signatures, I also have a practical objection, because technological development continues. We can now say that it is reasonable to set this threshold in terms of the number of signatures. But you don't know how the technology develops. So it is possible that people will say in the future: well, given the technical development, that threshold is a little low. I can imagine that Mrs Özütok would like to raise it. But if you put that in the Constitution, then you have to go through that whole constitutional review, with elections, with two-thirds reading. There's no way to do that. If you do it in an ordinary law with a two-thirds majority, that can be changed in one period. In the case of a two-thirds majority, the coalition cannot do so alone; then there must be substantial support from the opposition. I think that's practically much more workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr Van der Graaf of the Christian Union, who unfortunately cannot attend this debate because she has several obligations in this House, a small group has tabled an amendment. That's what we see on the outcome threshold. I have not discussed this with her, so let me say it in my own words. If I have read that amendment correctly, there are no numbers in it, but some sort of abstract description is given. Let me put it out of my mind: about half the turnout in the previous elections. So that's not something you would have to regulate every year by one percent more or less in a law. It is a kind of basic principle as we often know it in the Constitution. How does Mr Van Raak look at this very specific way, given the arguments he makes in relation to Mrs Özütok's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u14	I just got it. In principle, I have less objection to that. I do not think that an outcome threshold fits into the Constitution, but I see fewer practical objections. So when that happens, I say, "Yes, it's ugly." I just think it's ugly; I don't think it fits, but it can. We don't have the most beautiful constitution in the world anyway. It's possible. Only, if I read it correctly, I see that she did not choose the suggestion of the state committee, but made another suggestion. And I do object to that. I would like to propose here that the opinions of the State Committee should be kicked off for discussion. So I do not think it is necessary to close that discussion now. I think it is necessary to open that discussion. I note that Mrs van der Graaf's amendment concludes that discussion on a different point than the kick-off of the state committee. I regret that, because I think we should have a debate on this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u15	The state committee does very practical hand-outs when it comes to a percentage. From my point of view, I say that she suggests that a third would be sufficient. The Council of State mentions something like 40%. You may differ on that, but I have heard Mr Van Raak correctly. An amendment, as Mrs van der Graaf has tabled and in which we really are talking about a kind of basic principle, we are not setting a percentage, but referring to the turnout at the previous elections, despite the fact that this does not make the Constitution more beautiful to Mr Van Raak's taste, is more defendable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u16	No, it makes it ugly. If I read it correctly, she does mention a number; I think so. The state committee says make a general provision. Fine. That's ugly, but with ugly general provisions, I can live well. But this is a specific interpretation. I am sorry, because I would like to engage in the debate with Mrs Van der Graaf and Mr Van der Molen, and I also think that we should all do so. So I think it's actually closing a debate when it has to start. If there is an amendment, I would strongly urge it to make it so that no conclusion is drawn, to put it into the law for which two-thirds majority is required and not to give figures at this stage. As far as I am concerned, it should be more than that, as the State Commission says: state in the Constitution that this must be done and then two-thirds majority; all good friends. And then that debate can begin, as far as I am concerned, on 18 March or earlier; it can even begin now. But I would not like to close that debate now, because it will not be anyone's own threshold. It will be the threshold of all of us, namely the threshold that can count on two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u17	I hear Mr Van Raak say on several occasions that it is very important that a large majority of the Dutch population should be able to return a bill; he has already said that three times. I can imagine that this is a very important condition, but you should actually have that discussion now. You are now allowing a referendum when we do not really know what this other law is going to look like. I hear Mr Van Raak say that, as far as he is concerned, there may be lower thresholds. The question then is, of course, whether such a referendum, which we do not yet know exactly what it will look like, guarantees the vast majority needed to stop a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr Van Gent or his group will be present in due course. In due course there will have to be a threshold that can count on two-thirds majority. So if there are parties who now support this law but want high thresholds, then so be it. I am going to advise my group on low thresholds, but there are also groups that want high thresholds. They'll be there later. These thresholds will then have to count on two-thirds majority. Then parties can say whether they want to or not. So I am also afraid that these thresholds will be higher than Mr Futselaar's wish. Exactly how high, we shouldn't determine that today. The state committee has kicked that off, and we need to talk about this seriously now. In that case, I do not think that one or a few political groups should close the debate. Then I really think that we should discuss this seriously: what is a logical threshold? The State Commission has done something for it, as has the Council of State, professors, actually everyone. There are all kinds of ideas about it. Let's have that debate. I mean, we've been doing it for 35 years, so a few more years can do it. Then let's not put it off now. I think it's a little tricky, too. I get it. There are groups that have a high threshold. From the point of view of these groups, I fully understand that. Only those groups will be there later. Without these groups, that two-thirds majority will never be achieved. So try to be a little more relaxed, don't try to close it off yet. I'd be sorry to hear that. If there is an amendment, I would prefer to have an amendment laying down a basis. I think it is ugly but fine, I can have it. Mr Sneller said: the rules of the game are never finished, our democracy needs to be strengthened. Yeah, I'm gonna do something I even had to practice for. I am going to congratulate Mr Sneller, the Minister and the D66 Group. I don't know if it's possible not to write that down in the Acts, that it's black and white...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u19	Yes, everything is in the Acts, especially this comment about Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u20	Then we can all read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u21	It's also being broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u22	Oh, my gosh! When the consultative referendum was abolished, I stood there and I was very angry with the Minister. The minister remembers. I was really angry. Why was I angry? That consultation referendum was for me a stepping stone to the binding referendum. I was terrified that if we abolished that consultative referendum, the binding referendum would never come. I was angry about that. I thought it was so unfair. For the past few months, I've seen something else happen. The abolition of the consultative referendum, I am still opposed to its abolition, in a strange way, by a number of political groups, such as D66, Christian Union, Labour Party and GroenLinks, has opened up the possibility of looking again at the binding referendum. I didn't expect that when I was standing there, but I saw it happen. For me, therefore, it was very strange, I say to the Minister, perhaps it was a master plan of the Minister, but I do not know to note that the abolition of the consultative referendum might have allowed the establishment of the binding referendum in a strange way. Well, that's what you see: in politics, things can get weird. But looking back, that's what I think is happening. And if that's the outcome, I can only be happy looking back at it. I am less happy with Mr Sneller's amendment. This concerns the exclusion of international conventions. However, I would like to make Mr Bishop's argument: if there is something that lacks support, then it is European policy. This is not so much local or provincial, but certainly European politics. If you look at where there is a lack of trust, for which this referendum could do a good job, it is precisely in European politics or in international treaties. I have read the amendment, and I simply do not agree with it. I've had good experiences with it myself. Even when it comes to international treaties, I think we need to be able to trust our people. So I really don't agree with it, but it's there. I would advise against it, but you're going to vote what you're going to vote, so I'll see what you choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u23	Of course, Mr Van Raak is quite right about that, but you could also argue that it is actually a kind of destructive amendment. If the amendment is adopted, it could mean that in practice we cannot vote on many things. Our legislation is 60%, 70%, 80% based on what comes from Brussels. The estimates vary. So that is actually a sword of Damocles hanging above this magnificent bill by Mr Van Raak. If this amendment is passed, it could mean that Mr Van Raak's entire initiative law is virtually nothing or nothing in practice. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u24	I'm very against it. So if I had to give advice, I'd say... What's that called, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u25	Well, judgment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u26	Against! I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u27	So dissuade!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yeah, dissuade it. I strongly advise against it! But I do not entirely agree with Mr Bosma that there will be nothing left, because every law we make here can be the subject of a referendum, only not when it comes to international treaties. I don't like that. I think that's a bad idea. But that's what the Chamber is about. I can't force the Chamber not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u29	That I have been able to see again that Mr Van Raak gives things "judge chamber"...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u30	No, I didn't recommend it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u31	...so at the end of his parliamentary career. It could almost be some kind of company game. But a lot of laws, if not all laws, can be imagined as a result of European legislation. European legislation goes very far, so you could also argue that every law is the result of EU legislation and so you cannot hold a referendum on it, given the amendment. Or am I seeing ghosts now? Mr. Sneller may be here to contradict me. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u32	I understand Mr Bosma's fear, but I don't think it's true. It's about international treaties. Mr Sneller is going to explain his amendment in a moment. I think that is pure and correct, as I am opposed to it. But it's about international treaties. So if it is not about international treaties, it is referendable. That, of course, makes the over-, over-, over-, over-, over-, over- of what we put in laws here referendable. This means that it is a powerful means of correcting us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u33	Of course, what Mr Bosma says is not correct. It is precisely the bill that Mr Van Raak himself submits to the Chamber which excludes that kind of referenda which Mr Bosma is referring to. That is what Article 89b, number f or number f or paragraph f or sub f or whatever the lawyer Van Raak wants to call it. My amendment deals with very different treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u34	That is right: the amendment tabled by Mr Sneller concerns international conventions. In the law that was made here in part by Mr Sneller, references to European treaties were possible. We also saw this in the consultative referendum. And I was happy with that practice. I'm fine with that. So I would also be very sorry if this amendment were to succeed. I would very much regret that. That's why I didn't recommend it. But the idea that if this amendment is adopted, there will be nothing left, is not true. The vast majority of the laws we adopt here can then be referred back to committee. But what I find very regrettable, which I sincerely regret, is that there is often a great deal of distrust among the people of this kind of international treaty. Hey, "the backrooms of Brussels"! So that's what we want to control. I would like, however, if the argument is that we want to increase confidence in politics, not only in local politics, provincial politics, watership policy and national politics here in the House of Representatives, but also in confidence in European politics. Mrs Van der Graaf has great respect for the representative system. That's what's still going on. She and Mr Öztürk asked about the position of minorities. I hope I have been able to answer that earlier. The system of compromise, the parliamentary handicrafts, all of which remains in place. It is a question of whether there is public support for the laws we make, the compromises we make here. It is a question of whether the population can live with that or whether a large part of the population is whistling back at us. What if there's no support? Again, one side of the polder is compromise, the other side of the polder is support for it. And the referendum is, in that sense, a dike around the polder. It ensures that there is support for what we are deciding here. In fact, merely the existence of the referendum can already lead us to take greater account of citizens' wishes. Mr Baudet pointed that out. And perhaps less with those of lobbyists, I also say to Mr Bishop. I have already responded to that amendment in the debate with Mr Van der Molen. I'm not for that. Mrs Van der Graaf is not here right now, but she is undoubtedly listening. And if she doesn't, her associates will. I would actually ask her not to close the debate, not to mention figures, but to lay down a basis. If the amendment can be made so that a basis is laid down, I have no problem with that. If a discussion is already anticipated, so if a discussion that has yet to start is closed, then I would really like to advise against it. Why was referendums chosen at local, provincial and later waterboard level? It is true that this is not the proposal of the State Committee, but that is because the State Committee has given an opinion on our parliamentary system at national level. But the arguments put forward by the state committee, including that the referendum can be seen as a strengthening of parliamentary democracy, apply equally in the province, in the municipalities and, if you like, in the waterboards. So there's no difference in that argument. In the original law that I took out of the trash, it said so, and I didn't see any reason to take it out. It is also a law previously passed by the Chamber. If referendums are possible here, then I would not know why they would not be possible in the provinces, in the municipalities and for my part in the waterboards. There is nothing in the way of argument. I found Mr Baudet's remark interesting that bad decisions can also be made in good faith. Often the image that people here consciously make bad decisions is bad. Well, I'm sure you do. But it can also be in good faith. We can make decisions here in good faith in the cocoon we're in. We have seen in recent years that there is a bubble in The Hague, with certain views that are still dominant here. Those are politicians, civil servants, journalists, lobbyists, the whole square mile here. We are politicians, we have a different color, we have a different voice, but there is often a kind of consensus here, which does not always overlap with what is being thought and felt in the country. That is also something Mrs Van der Graaf pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr Van Raak also spoke a number of sentences about this part of the bill, about municipalities, provinces and perhaps also water boards. I myself asked a question about its mandatory nature in my speech. Will Mr Van Raak come back to that, or should I ask my supplementary question at this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u36	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u37	It is already the case that municipalities and provinces can hold a referendum. They do so on the basis of the Municipal Law or the Province Law. So they can do that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u39	Does Mr Van Raak's proposal mean that they no longer have a choice? Municipalities must have a regulation in order to be able to hold a referendum. If you feel locally that there is no such regulation, then no referendum can be held. That's their freedom. Does Mr Van Raak's proposal mean that municipalities and provinces are losing freedom, because they are now actually obliged by the Constitution to issue a referendum on request?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u40	There is now a possibility of a consultative referendum with municipalities, if they so wish. Soon all citizens in the Netherlands will have the opportunity to hold a referendum, including in their congregation. So they get that opportunity. It is not weird in Thorbecke's house that agreements are being made on the democratic system for the whole house. That's not weird. In some municipalities, you'll have a choice, yes. A binding referendum or a consultative referendum can then be held. People in municipalities who do not need a referendum may also choose not to hold a referendum. Anyone can choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u41	So it is no longer relevant whether municipalities choose not to have a referendum regulation? It's a citizen's right. So it doesn't matter if we make this arrangement or if the local authorities agree to it, as is the case now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u42	No, if, on the basis of the opinions of the State Commission and the Council of State, we decide that the binding referendum is an addition, a strengthening and a final part of representative democracy, then this applies nationally, provincially, in the waterboards of Mrs Özütok and also in the municipal councils. Then that is a right that we give to all citizens. We are not going to give citizens a democratic right in some municipalities and not citizens in another municipality. It may be that in some municipalities the population is happier to do it than in other municipalities. But the nice thing is that that's right about the people. It's a right. It's not a duty. You don't have to. If people don't want it, they shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr Van Gent has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u44	After that, however. If I have read the bill correctly, the threshold is actually lower. There are more decisions that are referendable at local level than at national level. On the one hand, you say that the same rules apply in the house of Thorbecke, but on the other hand you go a lot further, if I read it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u45	No, it's generally formulated. The exact way in which this is done will also have to be regulated by an implementing law. Just like the thresholds will also be this point "what is exactly referendable in a municipality and what isn't? It is necessary to regulate precisely in that implementing law. Only, that really doesn't fit in with the Constitution. We don't want to make him that ugly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u47	That's gonna be too ugly. Mr Bishop asked me to respond to a quote. "The plea for a referendum as a final stage of the representative system can be based on the more general understanding that a stable democracy requires more than maintaining the status quo. Problems, tensions and conflicts must be resolved and must not be ignored until they accumulate with each other into even greater problems." That was not my quote; that was from the state committee and he had borrowed this quote again from the political scientist Lijphart. I love it. I really like the way you put it. Our bubble here could blow itself up. For the answer to the question of whether we represent the people, it is very good that there can be a final piece in it. So I very much agree with this. Even if there are social problems, they should not accumulate. If the population can correct its representatives, it can also prevent the bubble from blowing up too big here. Happy birthday to Lijphart. I would like to thank Mr Van der Molen for his comment on my sincere attempt. It is, a sincere attempt. He asked for a number of arguments against the referendum. Yeah, that's a little weird. Look, I've been in opposition here for a long time. I have never asked a minister to argue against his law. I thought that was more for the opposition, but Mr Van Gent mentioned some of them, and I will deal with them later, finally. He asked me how I look at Article 50 of the Constitution. Beautiful; a wonderful article: "The States-General represent the entire Dutch people." That has to do with the Republic's time, a long history, but it's in it. I like it. I also represent the Minister; I do want to. I also represent Mr Van der Molen; I like that. Mr Van der Molen also represents me. I think that's a little less, but okay, it's all true. We have to fill in that representative position ourselves. It is up to us to complete that representative function. That's the idea of "no burden." We can do this, for example, by having ourselves corrected. So this is an example of that. Mr Van der Molen also mentioned the Brexit: a referendum is nothing, because the Brexit... Now I quote the Council of State: 'The Advisory Section also makes it clear that the binding corrective referendum cannot be compared with the Brexit referendum in Great Britain'. And it is, because what happened in Britain? Apart from what you think, that's where politics said, "population, make a decision." And then politically, incredibly, hannes about implementation. Yeah, this isn't. This is: politics makes a decision and the people can or cannot correct us. I'm just saying, let's say, after the election, the House of Representatives makes a law on a nexit. Then the people can say, "You are all over the place; we do not want that." And then there could be a referendum to get that off the table. That should appeal to Mr Van der Molen. Perhaps this example may require him even more enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u48	Hope brings life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u49	Then it must be international treaties, because otherwise we will not be able to do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u50	Exactly, because I noticed after this debate that there was some confusion about what that comparison was about. As far as I'm concerned, that wasn't in the type of referendum, because that's different. In England, it was, "Do you want to stay or do we have to get out?" That's not what you're suggesting. It was more about the issue raised by international treaties from D66, because my position is that that statement was very clear in Great Britain. By the way, the proportions were a bit together, so that always gives tension. So that can also happen here, even in the referendum you are proposing. But I also wanted to point out that sometimes it seems an easy choice, even in the case of a treaty: whether or not. But the result, how we then act on it, can be very complicated, precisely that was the point I made if you do not include international treaties here. They are, by their very nature, a bit more complicated because we are not just talking about them, but, for example, in the European context, a whole other country. So perhaps Mr Van Raak would like to say that it can be a clear answer, but that the aftermath politics can also be very bad in his referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u51	A law can be off the table and then it's up to us, people's representatives, to Chamber, Cabinet, Council of State, everyone, to make a new law. If we are good representatives of the people, we will make a law that can count on support. And if we're not good people's representatives, we're gonna get caught again. Yes, that is the strengthening of the parliamentary system, as the Council of State and the State Commission call it. If a law is passed, if a law goes off the table by referendum, it is up to us to make a new one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u52	I don't quite understand the latter, because if there is a law. Mr Van Raak referred to the proposal as "nexit." This is accepted by the Chamber and rejected in a referendum. People vote against that nexit. Then we don't have to make a new law, do we? Doesn't that just mean the law's gone? Nothing obliges us to create some kind of new replacement law, right? We vote on a law, we vote against it, the law goes away; isn't that all that happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u53	Absolutely, it is. If we decide not to make a new law, we don't make a new law. Exactly. That's right. Your comment is justified. When he's gone, he's gone and it's up to us to make a new one. If we don't make a new one, we won't make a new one. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u54	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr Van Gent actually mentioned four arguments against the referendum. It would be too coarse. He also referred to the Brexit. You can only say yes or no. We always say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr Sneller has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u57	I would like to come back to the international conventions. Mr Van Raak always says in his defence that he is following exactly what the state committee says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u59	But that state committee recommends that it should not necessarily be my amendment to item No. 10.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. However, I do not read it back in Mr Van Raak's bill. Can he explain why he deviates precisely from the opinion of the State Committee on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u60	That is the same point as Mrs Van der Graaf's: make such a basis. It's possible. I really prefer that to this amendment. Create a basis and then we can have the discussion. Then we can make thresholds and exceptions that can count on a two-thirds majority. I would like to ask Mr Sneller the following. The opinion of the State Committee is a kick-off. Today we decide in principle whether we want a referendum. The outcome is after the elections. Do not disrupt that process with an amendment that will close that discussion now. If Mr Sneller is prepared to include such a basic clause, that is fantastic. Then I say "happy birthday." But we can only fill it in in the next discussion, after the elections. Then we can also see whether these proposals can count on two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u61	To speak to Mr Van Raak: that is wonderful. But that wasn't my question. My question was why Mr Van Raak does not do that himself. I understand my freedom of amendment, but Mr Van Raak is always defending himself by saying that he is taking over what the state committee says when he does not. If we speak, he won't do it at this point. Why did he choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u62	I took the old law. I have included a number of things from the State Commission and some technical things from the Council of State, but I have not put this into it. If Mr Sneller wishes to do so, he is very welcome to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u63	I note that this is a little selective shopping in the opinion of the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yes, or I'll give Mr. Sneller a chance to perfect his own law. Ha ha ha ha ha!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u66	Yeah, you can't help it. Hey. I come to the four arguments put forward by Mr Van Gent. It's too coarse. Yeah, that's right. It's a law. We do this every day here. A law is complicated. Yeah, super wrapped up. There's gonna be an election. Then people have to opt for an election program, for an ideology, for a person. That's super wrapped, but we've been doing it for over 100 years. We must say yes or no to a law here. If it turns out that a large majority of the Dutch population cannot live with that law, they can also say no to it. Let us take the referendum on the Tow Act or the Intelligence and Security Services Act. I ran that campaign with a lot of interest and energy. I believe that this campaign was of a higher level in substance than the debate we had here in the House of Representatives at the time. I can back that up, too. The objections raised at that time, from that social debate, are matters in that law that are still difficult. So the idea that we are very capable of having a debate on a law at a high level, but that this cannot be done outside this Chamber, is not in any case in line with the experience I have had in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u67	I had a similar debate with Mr Baudet during the first term. At that time I also said: you would say that the starting point is right, but the big difference is that if we talk about a legislative proposal here, we can amend it and move it. Of course, none of this can be done in a referendum. Then it's just a yes or no. In essence, this is quite different from saying that what we are doing here is constantly holding referendums here. Of course we don't. No, we also have the opportunity to change that. It's fine that you're arguing about it. You don't need a referendum for that, by the way. But I think it's a real difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u68	We do our job and, if it is right, we continue to do our job and continue to make laws here. Those laws are being implemented. That doesn't change anything. In the over-, over-, over-- most of it stays that way. All we do is give the population the opportunity to correct us. That is what we do with thresholds and conditions: so many people need to come; should a two-thirds majority be decided? I can assure you, they don't do that every week. But if the compromises, the laws we make here, cannot count on sufficient support, we will give the people the opportunity to correct us. I say it with the Council of State and I say it with the State Commission: that strengthens our parliamentary democracy. It doesn't weaken her, it strengthens her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u69	Hey, Mr. Van Raak...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u70	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u71	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u72	I am already with Mr Van Gent's questions, and those are the last. I'm saving it for the last time. "Always simple solutions," he says. I don't know any simple solutions. Laws are complicated. The Council of State says that there is a tradition in Switzerland in which political cooperation and consensus-building go hand in hand with a sustainable referendum practice. I think that this also gives Mr Van Gent some confidence that, if we start practicing this referendum later, it will all turn out to be a big deal. I would particularly like to mention his third argument, the participatory paradox: in the end, such a referendum is actually something for a small group of people. That was in 2000, when I started the referendum, perhaps the case. At that time, it was a bit of a matter for highly educated, mature citizens, who are very much involved in politics. They wanted a referendum, because they wanted to have direct influence on the decision-making process. Now, twenty years later, you see that scientists, the state committee, the Council of State, but also people you're going to ask on the street just think the referendum is a wonderful tool. An important means, which can help to improve their confidence in politics. So it is no longer something of a small group of people; soon an overwhelming majority of the population will have to speak against a law before it is off the table. So it's not something of a small group, it's something of much larger groups in the population, just those groups that have a little less faith in us. And, of course, we will have an outcome threshold. This threshold will have to be supported by a two-thirds majority in the Second and First Chambers. So the idea that a small group of lobbyists will be able to get a law off the table is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u73	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Graaf first. Right? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u74	If you get the floor, you're gonna have to take it right away. That's a good lesson today. I am following the debate for a moment during a suspension of another debate. I understand that Mr Van Raak has asked me a few questions and that he has responded to the amendment I tabled, namely to set the threshold of outcome in the Constitution. Mr Van Raak did not choose to do so. Mr Van Raak says: take a basis, but we will have that discussion later. Mr Van Raak has tabled a bill which he knows should be supported by the Chamber and even by a two-thirds majority at a second reading. Mr Van Raak knows that for a number of political groups, including mine, the inclusion of an outcome threshold and its level is seen as a prerequisite for introducing the instrument of a binding corrective referendum in the Netherlands, as a complement to our representative system and as an emergency brake that you can use when Parliament is going in the wrong direction. I wonder why Mr Van Raak is avoiding the discussion now. I put it in the letter round. We have introduced it in the first period of the debate and I am now tabling an amendment for the second period so that Mr Van Raak can take note of the direction in which our thoughts are going. Let us have that discussion now, because it is an essential point for the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u75	Thank you very much for this contribution and this question. I am therefore not opposed to including a basis in the Constitution for a threshold of outcome. The difference isn't that big. To include that in the Constitution, you need a two-thirds majority. If we do that later, you're gonna need a two-thirds majority. As I said earlier, Mr Futselaar is in favour of low thresholds, Mrs Van der Graaf is in favour of high thresholds. I am afraid that, if there is a two-thirds majority in that implementing law, it will all be more close to the Christian Union than to the SP. That's good, that's fine, because we need thresholds here that two thirds of the Chamber can live with. On these thresholds and also on the threshold of outcome, I have said that I welcome the fact that the State Commission has kicked it off and that it is then up to the Chamber to reach a final outcome. That does not have to be the same as that of the State Committee, but I think it is important that this debate should start now, if that law is to be adopted shortly. I note that Mrs Van der Graaf does not accept the suggestion of the State Committee, but that of the Council of State. That's another suggestion. It's okay. That may be her bet. It may even be a high wager or a conditional wager: it may all be allowed. But I would be sorry to close that discussion already. I would like to start that discussion. I hear what Mrs. Van der Graaf says. I hear she says: the Christian Union can only live with a correct binding referendum with high thresholds. I think it is very good that she says that we are not going to record the number of signatures in the Constitution, because that would not, I think, be a good thing for her group either. I can better live with setting the outcome threshold in the Constitution. I do not think it fits in with the Constitution, but it can do better, and it does not seem to me that difficult either. But to get a figure on that right now and not to take the figure from the state committee, I regret that. I can't say that I think it's a good idea, because I don't think that's a good idea. If she had chosen the figure of the state committee, I could have said: fine, then I will also advise my group to vote for it. But I find this complicated because it is a different result, and I think that we should discuss it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u76	We find each other on the point of having to discuss it, but the question is when are we going to do it? The Christian Union considers it really important that this instrument, if you wish to use it in the system we know, should be complementary, but should therefore really function as an emergency brake. We attach such importance to this that we want to ensure it through our Constitution. Mr Van Raak says: just take this proposal first, then we have already had that bump. But at that second reading, I cannot raise that threshold anymore, so this is the moment when I bring him in on behalf of my group. We attach such a threshold, and yes, a high threshold. We must not use this instrument lightly in the eyes of the Christian Union. It must be capable of acting as a corrective mechanism, but as an emergency brake. It must be accessible, but not easy to use. We would like to ensure that in the Constitution, with a threshold. We want to have that discussion now. I would very much like to hear from Mr Van Raak how he looks at this in terms of content. I am also trying to start this discussion and Mr Van Raak has already included a basis in his legislative proposal. Run that discussion now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u77	I respect Mrs Van der Graaf's position. She has every right to table an amendment. But I really don't think you should do that right now. You can now determine the exact level of that threshold by two thirds, but you can also determine it by two thirds after the elections. It doesn't matter. For this the position of the Christian Union is equally necessary, as well as necessary. I don't see the problem there. I think Mrs Van der Graaf's position in this debate is stronger than that of Mr Futselaar. I prefer lower thresholds. She prefers higher thresholds. The reality will be that with low thresholds there is no two-thirds majority. These will therefore be higher thresholds. But how high exactly, we do not have to decide today, and I do not think it is right to decide today, because I think that today we are kicking off this implementation debate, on the basis of the proposal from the State Committee. I do not think it weakens Mrs Van der Graaf's position to wait until the next period. She tabled the amendment. If she had taken over the threshold of the state committee, I would have said: okay, I can live with that. However, as she now wishes, I cannot give my group any positive advice on this. And other than that, what the Chamber wants is what the Chamber wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u78	Last. Mrs. Van der Graaf, I can see your doubts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u79	We do not meet, because Mr Van Raak is in favour of a lower threshold and the Christian Union is in favour of a higher threshold. In that sense, I do not think the reasoning is entirely consistent either, because if I had chosen what he would have liked, it would have been okay, and then the argument no longer applies to the discussion about the level of the threshold at a later date. But I understand that; I also want to forgive him. I think the state committee initiated the discussion. The Council of State has put a dime in the bag. Mr Van Raak did not comment on this in his argument. Now I hear him say, "I think he's too high." The Christian Union invites him to do so at this time. We attach great importance to the fact that the level of the threshold will also be included in the Constitution. That is a position that we have long held. We consider this important because, if we add the instrument, it will be a very heavy and important instrument, and it is worth protecting it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u80	I respect that. Mrs Van der Graaf has every right to table an amendment. She has to do that now; I get that. This cannot be done at second reading. I have every respect for that, but I just don't agree. Other than that, it's up to the Chamber. I can't help it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u81	Then Mr Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u82	I'd like to come back to this. Mr Van Raak replied to my arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u84	I thought it was a bit of a simplification of how you used my simplification argument. What I was concerned with, and I said that too, is that a yes-no question can often seem to be a solution, but often leads to consequences that cannot be overlooked at all. As an argument, I gave a Swiss example. Because I totally agree: Switzerland is a country with a very long tradition of referenda, which often also work well. That also fits in with what I say: you must also look very closely at the political culture in countries. You cannot just take over something from another country and say: that works there; so that will work for us too. The example I gave at the time is that people voted against migration in a referendum. In practice, it proved impossible for the government to implement this, because it was very much at odds with the EU, which said: no free movement of persons, so not of goods. So it had major economic consequences. I do not know if that argument had become very clear during the debate on the referendum, but I indicated: sometimes it seems to be a simple solution, but there are all kinds of consequences and consequences that go much further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u85	Yeah, except that's not this kind of referendum. It is not an initiating referendum in which the people instruct us to do something. It's not that kind of referendum. This referendum is the other way round: we decide something and the people can correct us. So the people can never force us to do something that can't, because if we make a law, I'm assuming it can. We are making something that we believe can be done; then the people can correct us. The last point, which Mr Van Gent also refers to, is our culture. In his contribution he showed a book: Het Binnenhof continues to amaze. I'm always grateful for that as an author. Meanwhile I also have a new book: Thinking on the dikes, the Netherlands of the philosophers. That is a book in which I try to look through the eyes of philosophers to the Netherlands and also at Dutch politics. This also shows that our culture of polders............................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what the State Commission and the Council of State say. It is precisely this form of referendum, the binding corrective referendum, that fits our political culture. Finally, Mr President. Mr Van Gent asks: if the law had been adopted in 2017, what subjects would I have liked to have had a referendum on? Yeah, that's the point. That's not up to me. That's not up to us. That's exactly what we shouldn't do. We must not go out of our referendum wishes on the people... No, we have a job to do. We have to make laws. The population can correct us. It's up to the population to decide when and when, and that's not up to Mr. Van Raak. This is not Van Raak's or Mr Futselaar's referendum. This is not the referendum of Baudet or of Mr Bosma, not of Krol or Öztürk, not of Kuik or Özütok, not of Sneller or Van der Graaf. This is the referendum of our people, a strengthening of our democracy, which hopefully has broad support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u86	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I'm going to suspend for a moment so that the chair can be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u87	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by complimenting the initiator, Mr Van Raak. I can indeed be here more often as an advisor to Parliament and to the House of Representatives. In any case, it deserves praise when Members of Parliament take the initiative for legislation, especially when it comes to a fundamental issue and the Constitution. I would like to congratulate Mr Van Raak not only on the proposal for a constitution, but also on his persistence on this dossier, on other dossiers and, in fact, on all the files he has seen coming along as a Member of Parliament over the past 14 years. I know him as someone who has always shown himself to be a combatant and as someone who is tirelessly committed to fighting social abuses. Since he has now announced that we will not see him again in the new period, I wish him well before the elections. Mr Van Raak already spoke in his term of office about "his plagiarism." He's failing himself. It is not at all the first time that Mr Van Raak has made an initiative legislative proposal and has defended the binding corrective referendum. He did so already in 2017 with an earlier constitutional proposal on which your Chamber had yet to give its opinion at second reading. That constitutional proposal was rejected by your Chamber at the end of 2017. The fact that Mr Van Raak has nevertheless put forward a new constitutional proposal is, of course, linked to the opinion of the State Committee that came out at the end of 2018. The State Committee then advocated the introduction of the corrective legislative reference. Mr Van Raak didn't waste any time at the time. After one and a half months, one and a half months after the publication of the opinion of the State Committee, he already referred to the constitutional proposal we are discussing today. That was really fast. The cabinet position on the opinion of the State Committee has not yet given a substantive opinion on the concrete recommendations on the corrective binding legislative reference. I indicated in my supplementary letter of 1 July that I wanted to include these recommendations in the determination of the cabinet's position on the constitutional proposal that we are discussing today. This is also obvious, of course, because Mr Van Raak's proposal is broadly based on the opinion of the State Committee, not only in terms of content but also in the basis. Now is the time to take a position as a cabinet on this. In general terms, the cabinet position following the opinion of the State Commission stated that the binding referendum was a figure that was not readily applicable to representative democracy as it took shape in the Netherlands in the last century and a half. At that time we also wrote that there is a very different view. Mr Van der Molen also referred to this in his term. The different views on the desirability of introducing the corrective binding legislative referendum were also found during the first period. Mr Van Raak mentioned quite extensively a number of benefits of the corrective binding legislative reference. I have also understood from the first period that they are endorsed by some members of the Chamber. Others have raised objections to this. Mr Van Raak did not want to respond to the invitation to raise the objections, so let me do so. One objection, for example, is that it is inevitable in a representative democracy that compromises should be made and that sometimes, viewed in isolation, they do not correspond to the view of a majority of the population. A referendum can lead to disappointment among a group, sometimes a relatively large group but a minority, who will think after a referendum that his or her interests have not been sufficiently taken into account. It can lead to a tightening of social contradictions. Nor will it always be clear what motives voters had to reject a bill or what preference they would have. All this can affect all of us, the work and the tasks of the government. There are many advantages and there are disadvantages. I just mentioned that last one, too. It is good to have the debate together. This proposal for a Constitution is aimed at an important and fundamental change in the state system, and it is then necessary to consider the substance and the advantages and disadvantages. That is why I would also like to make a comment on the justification. Mr Van Raak, as has been said, has been inspired by the opinion of the State Committee, also in its support. An important argument for the State Committee to argue for the introduction of the binding corrective legislative referendum is the observation that the views of Members of Parliament on certain issues do not always fit well with those of, in particular, low-skilled voters. I repeat here the arguments of the State Committee. According to the State Committee, this leads to a lack of substantive representation. In the light of Article 50 of the Constitution, this is considered problematic by the State Commission. That article states, as we know, that the States-General represent the entire Dutch people. Both in the literature and by the Council of State, it has been pointed out that this interpretation of Article 50 of the Constitution is quite different from the interpretation that has traditionally been given to it. A mandate for the representatives of the people is usually deduced from it to represent the general interest. The Constitution is silent on how to do that, but it guarantees that representatives of the people have a free mandate to make their own choice. Regular elections must ensure that there is broad agreement between Parliament and the electorate. The cabinet is in fact sticking to this common interpretation of Article 50 of the Constitution. Therefore, and this is also a bit for parliamentary historiography, I think it is important to emphasise this here today. This means that in Article 50 of the Constitution, the cabinet does not as such see any reason for introducing the corrective legislative reference. However, having said that, it is clear that the benefits and objections to the corrective binding legislative reference are weighed differently. All in all, the cabinet has chosen not to bring a constitutional proposal into procedure itself but to leave the initiative with politics and thus with your Chamber. So if your Chamber considers that it is desirable to take a first step with this draft constitution towards the introduction of the correct binding legislative referendum, then the Cabinet does not want to stand in the way of that. In other words, your Chamber is left to the cabinet to decide on this as such. As an advisor, however, that is my role here today, and I would like to make a number of suggestions for substantive changes to the Constitutional proposal. It is about changes that have also been called for in the opinions of the State Commission and the Council of State. During the first term of office, these opinions were also cited by a number of speakers. Firstly, we are talking about the thresholds that were also the subject of the debate. The Cabinet considers that different thresholds should be laid down in the Constitution itself and not in implementing legislation. This applies both to the thresholds in the preliminary stage of a referendum and to the threshold of outcome which determines whether the result of a referendum is valid. Last week there was some confusion in the first term about the difference between the outcome threshold and the turnout threshold. A turnout threshold refers to the number of voters required to vote at least in a referendum and an outcome threshold concerns whether the majority voting against includes at least a certain percentage of the total number of voters. The draft Constitution is based on such a threshold. The main reason for an outcome threshold is, as the State Committee says, that it does not involve the risk of strategic voting, so that not going to vote can be a motive to make sure that the referendum is invalid. That is the reason for choosing the outcome threshold. Mr Sneller asked whether the cabinet could agree with the concrete suggestions made by the State Committee on the level of the various thresholds. Not only has the State Committee expressed its views on this issue, but the Advisory Section of the Council of State has also done so. These opinions are not consistent; of course, you had noticed all this. This therefore requires further consideration, but like the Advisory Section, the Cabinet believes that the level of the thresholds at both preliminary stages should depend on how referendum requests can be submitted at these preliminary stages. The thresholds are intended to determine to what extent the electorate actually attaches to the referendum. For example, when voters are required to submit a referendum request in person, you have to make a relatively high effort to do so. Then the threshold can be set in absolute terms lower than if the request for a referendum can be submitted electronically and is therefore much more low-threshold. The opinions of the State Committee and the Council of State also differ as to the level of the threshold. The state committee assumes 33 1/3%, a third of the total. The Advisory Section assumes 40% of the electoral population. Mr Öztürk asked whether the cabinet could make a decision on the exact level of the threshold. Since it is an initiative legislative proposal, the Cabinet cannot actually make amendments and only advise, but I would advise that the outcome threshold be set within the range mentioned above. Secondly, I would like to comment on the list of laws that are excluded from referendability. In general terms, the Cabinet agrees with the list contained in the draft Constitution. Moreover, this list is largely derived from previous constitutional proposals and is also largely in line with the opinions of the State Commission and the Council of State. I say'mostly', because the State Committee and the Section of the Regions believe that there should be an exception for referenda on the adoption of so-called mixed treaties. Mrs Özütok and Mrs Van der Graaf also asked what the cabinet thought about this. The Cabinet endorses these opinions and therefore calls for an explicit exception to referenda on the adoption of mixed treaties. Mr Sneller asked whether this could be dealt with in the implementing legislation, but the answer is that this cannot be done. The list contained in the draft Constitution is explicitly exhaustive. This means that the proposal does not provide a basis for excluding further categories of legislation from referendability in implementing legislation. If your Chamber wishes to exclude the approval of treaties from referendability, it will therefore require an amendment to the present proposal. That exhaustive list should then be extended. Mr Sneller has tabled an amendment to that effect. This amendment does not only refer to mixed agreements, but excludes the adoption of any convention. As has already been said, the government sees the objections of the State Commission and the Advisory Section particularly in the case of mixed agreements, but there are no objections from the cabinet to the content of Mr Sneller's amendment. So I would also say that I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u89	Here's what I was wondering. Should Mr Sneller's amendment fail, will you withdraw your support for the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u90	I have two errands today. One is that the cabinet has chosen not to come up with proposals itself, but to leave it to the Chamber. This means that the opinion on the legislative proposal is also with the Chamber. In doing so, the Cabinet has on a number of points substantive opinions on changes and, in its view, improvements to the legislative proposal. Of course, the cabinet must also wait and see whether and how these suggestions are incorporated into the proposal. But if the cabinet says 'it is up to politics and thus to the Chamber; we want at this stage, because it happens in two readings, not to stand in the way of progress', then that is the position, regardless of the amendments. That's the bottomline, of course. However, we strongly recommend that the law be amended on three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u91	The Minister shall act as adviser in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u92	Absolutely. Very good. If I forget, you'll remind me, Mr. Chairman. The third point concerns the scope of the draft Constitution, since it applies not only to the national level, but also to provincial and municipal authorities, but not to the waterboards and the Caribbean public bodies. Mrs Özütok has tabled an amendment on this, I think, in which she declares it applicable to the waterboards. Can I make one technical comment on that? As it has now been formulated, the amendment allows referenda on waterboard regulations only if and as long as there is a waterboard election. This would mean that the Constitution, if the legislator chose at some point to put the waterboards together in a different way, would become a dead letter in that respect. I do not think this is the intention of the author of the amendment. Based on the intention of the draft Constitution, one could argue that referendums on water regulations have added value regardless of the answer to the question of whether or not the water authority is elected. But that's a technical remark. Apart from that, as an advisor from the cabinet, I would say that it is not consistent to mention only the water boards. The Advisory Section also said it: you can limit it to the national level, but if you think it should be broader, you can also do it for all fellow governments, including the water boards and the Caribbean public bodies. If the decision were to extend it to all fellow governments, I think it would be a good idea to consult the co-governments involved. I refer, for example, to the IPO and the VNG. I have not been able to tell from the Chambers that Mr Van Raak did so. I believe that he himself said in a note on the report that he would not mind broadening the scope to include the waterboards and the Caribbean public bodies. It would be good, I think, to take those fellow governments and consult them. These are the three substantive opinions that the cabinet is happy to give. Apart from that, I would like to say the following. The draft Constitution only regulates the main lines of the corrective binding legislative reference. A more detailed definition is therefore foreseen for ordinary legislation. To this end, Article 89g contains an explicit basis, which is broadly worded. I quote: 'Everything else referred to in this paragraph is regulated by law'. I think it is important to establish that this basis allows for certain forms of deliberative democracy to be included in the referendum procedure, such as a civil forum that can play a role in different stages of a referendum and can help voters to make their choice. In this context, it is perhaps appropriate to draw attention to the proposal recently made for a new referendum regulation in the province of Limburg. This proposal was inspired by research carried out by Tilburg University. In fact, that was mentioned in the first term by Mr Sneller. We do not, of course, have to talk about the precise effect of this. This is a matter for the ordinary legislator, but I think it is important to get to work on the deliberative democracy and examples of it. Then there's the financial consequences. As an advisor, I must make a comment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u93	This time not about finance, but about implementing legislation. What if this law is passed at first reading? Does the government see it as its task to work on implementing legislation? Or is that a question I will have to ask the author in my second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u94	Of course, you can do the same. Perhaps I should postpone my reply until we have heard from Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u95	That's very chic, counselor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u96	The financial consequences. The explanatory statement rightly states that organising a referendum costs money. The costs can be divided globally into structural costs and organisational costs for a specific referendum. We have experience with two consultative referenda. With regard to structural costs, we are talking about several million. What the organizational costs are depends on it. If a referendum does not coincide with an election that has occurred, it will cost around 32 million. If it is organised in conjunction with another election, the costs are much lower, namely 6 million. At least, this is based on the experiences so far. I would like to say that combining a referendum with an election from a cost perspective seems very attractive, but at the same time it is a very important task for the municipalities in particular to organise the elections. For them this leads to bottlenecks again. Moreover, you cannot always save every subject and referendum until the next elections, because of course you are also dealing with the social debate and the topicality. You do not want saving as such to be detrimental to the quality of the social debate and you do want civil society to be involved as much as possible. I just wanted to sketch this out because we have to realize the implementation consequences. The additional costs for the co-governments must always be reimbursed, as we know. At the moment, there are no funds reserved for it. That will have to be done in due course on the national budget. In my role as advisor, I should therefore like to invite your Chamber to consider these budgetary consequences in advance. The second reading is, of course, still to take place, and that is, I think, the time when we need to ensure adequate coverage. I think I have answered most of the questions, but I have not yet answered Mrs Özütok's question. She asked about the implementation of the Lintmeijer motion adopted by the First Chamber. That is the motion in which the cabinet is asked how it looks at forms of direct democracy in a broad sense as a complement and strengthening of the representative democracy that we know in the Netherlands. I also understand that Mrs Özütok is now asking this question in the context of the discussion of this draft constitution. In my progress letter of 1 July on the implementation of the report of the State Committee, I also referred to the Lintmeijer motion. So we are going to talk about it, because there is a separate discussion about that letter. The cabinet shares the considerations underlying the Lintmeijer motion, which deal with the problem analysis of the state committee. The state committee says that the current political system is strong in representation and that it can also count on strong support from the population, but that it is not without problems. According to the State Commission, direct democratic instruments can, under certain conditions, contribute to improving the quality and acceptance of policies and legislation. That's a picture the cabinet shares. Direct democracy can, of course, be achieved at all levels of government. We have also seen different expressions of direct democracy at different levels. A lot on a decentralised level. I also mentioned the example of the province of Limburg, where they introduced that citizens' forum in their referendum regulation, whereby looted citizens get in touch with the wider public prior to a referendum so that pros and cons can be properly weighed. I would say that, as a cabinet, we should not want to close it. It is, I think, very good to leave a lot of room for interpretation at the various levels, as we see it happening in Limburg and elsewhere. I have now offered the proposal for strengthening participation at decentralised level for advice to the Council of State. The aim of this legislative proposal is to make clear to local residents as well as to the municipalities themselves within which frameworks and at what stage of the policy process people can participate as much as possible and then to leave the municipalities free in their choice how they want to do so and when they choose to do so in the policy process. Thus, a legal anchoring and, at the same time, sufficient room for administrative layers to make their consideration of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u97	I had indeed asked for an update of what the Minister is doing with regard to different forms of direct democracy in the various levels of government. I understand she's working on a bill. Can she tell us when we can discuss this here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u98	It's in the Council of State, so I'm depending on when it comes back to me. But of course, my goal is to send it to your Chamber as soon as possible. So as soon as that advice comes up, at least I'm gonna hurry. Maybe in the extension of this, I can mention that we have started a three-pronged process. I call youth participation, involving young people as much as possible in policy-making and ensuring that young people are truly heard. That's gotten a bit of an extra boost from the corona crisis. The Court itself may also reduce the age limit for participation in the citizens' initiative to 16 years. I also said that if the Chamber chose to do so, we, as a cabinet, could also reduce the age limit for the European citizens' initiative to 16 years. This is also a way of involving young people more. I'm also looking into the conditions under which you could set up a civil forum. In any event, I shall forward to your Chamber the results of that review before the end of this year. Madam President, finally. I am going to say something that Mr Van Raak knows very well; better than myself. If the Constitutional proposal is made law in this parliamentary term of your Chamber, a second reading will take place in the next parliamentary term. Mr Van Raak knows, like no other, how important it is that the legislative proposal for second reading is brought before the House in good time. I assume that he will take care of this before the elections, because after that he will not be able to do so. The Advisory Section of the Council of State therefore has time to advise before the new Chamber meets for the first time. He will not be in there, but someone else will undoubtedly take over and defend the proposal at second reading. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've come to the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u99	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I see that Mr Krol is already ready for his second term. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Chairman. Our political system is stalling. The Dutch electorate's confidence in politics is falling further and further. Many people in the country I speak a lot every day find it incomprehensible that Minister Grapperhaus lectures others firmly about the distance of 1.5 metres but is not even dealt with on his own behalf. This parliament, which is governed by coalition and party interests, has no message to the opinion of the people in the country in the period between the elections. Mr. Chairman. I am every day covered by e-mails from people involved who are absolutely unaware of the fact that an emergency law by Minister Hugo de Jonge is being hijacked which will give him unprecedented powers and severely restrict our freedoms. People are even begging me to stop this law, but they feel powerless and at the mercy of a bunch of anonymous party apparachiks who want to rush the law through parliament just as quickly. This evening, for example, we are debating with Prime Minister Rutte the EU Restoration Fund of 1,800 billion, to which the Netherlands has spent up to EUR 1 billion a year. The vast majority of Dutch voters do not want that at all. Even a large majority of Rutte's own VVD supporters do not like this EU recovery fund at all, but the Rutte government is still trying to get this unwanted legislation through parliament, so that the Netherlands can finally go into the transfer union, at the expense of the disposable income of Dutch workers and pensioners. Mr. Chairman. Many Dutch don't feel heard. We had a consultative referendum, which, after being used only twice, was put into the dirt by Minister Ollongren. Prime Minister Rutte said the cynical words: "The referendum did not bring what was expected." No, quite weedy if you ignore the outcome of the Ukraine referendum, in which a large majority said no, first for a year and endlessly train the decision, after which you keep the people fooled with a meaningless insert sheet and finally just do what you were planning anyway. This approach by the Rutte cabinet made the people even more cynical. The cabinet therefore confuses cause and effect. The referendum did not bring what was expected of it, because the cabinet knowingly decided not to do anything with the result, not even to say that they wanted to take a different decision than the result of the referendum. So the referendum with a speed train was abolished again by VVD, D66, CDA and ChristenUnion in the Second and Upper Chambers. I recalled it in 2018 when we discussed the abolition of the referendum: only the GDR preceded us in 1968, when the referendum was abolished there. In the end, we know how that turned out 20 years later. People don't stay endless when easy sheep chase their leaders. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, it is essential to start restoring the confidence of the voters, to ensure that people are heard again and can make their voice heard in an informed manner. As Mr Van Raak said, at the time of the Ukraine referendum, people learned much more about the association agreement and the situation in Ukraine than they could have ever known when the treaty was finished as a hammer piece in parliament, after a little debate between some specialists, as happens with many other things here. Suddenly there were all kinds of experts and people with different visions to the usual The Hague spokesmen. That was a new and refreshing experience for Dutch concepts. Mr. Chairman. What is needed today is a start on the introduction of the binding corrective referendum, so that this bill is adopted by the Second and First Chambers before the elections on 17 March and can be introduced as soon as possible after the elections. Today, we can begin to restore confidence in politics by giving the people the opportunity to pull the democratic emergency brake. There is also a threshold which will not be too high. We will therefore wholeheartedly support this initiative proposal by Mr Van Raak, both in the Lower House and in the Upper House. Unlike Mr Van Raak, the Minister did appoint the disadvantages. I understand that. After all, she is part of the cabinet with VVD and CDA. But it was also informative, because it turned out that the disadvantages can be overcome and that they do not outweigh the benefits. I thank Mr Van Raak for his initiative and I regret that he will no longer defend his own law after the forthcoming elections. But I promise him that, on behalf of the Party for the Future, I will do everything I can to bring his democratic mission to a successful conclusion. Today, as a Lower House, we can give a start to regaining confidence in the politics and a more democratic future of the Netherlands. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u101	Thank you. We don't know the Party for the Future. It is up to the electorate to decide which parties will participate. Mr Futselaar has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I assume that after the next elections the SP will still be used to defend this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Power and counterpower, that is actually at the heart of this discussion. Organising and supporting counterpower is an excellent thing in Dutch politics. We have local authorities that are relatively strong and autonomous. We facilitate and encourage a sea of advisory committees, to ombudsmen, to citizens' organisations to control the government, to provide the government with criticism. So the formulation of counterpower is something that is pronounced Dutch. As far as the SP is concerned, this proposal offers a form of counter-power against the Lower House. In an extreme case, there may be a corrective referendum. I will not say that this is a final piece of democracy, because we will never be done with it, but we will ensure that we anchor counterpower even better. As far as we're concerned, that's a big profit. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about plagiarism. I'm a former teacher, and I've checked out a lot of the thesis. Plagiarism is an automatic insufficient and sometimes also means removal of the training. But I have to say that something is not plagiarism when you do the source. And you can say whatever you want, but Mr. Van Raak is squirrelly with his references. I'll add: if you take everything in your thesis with the source, you still have an inadequate one. But that may also be why thesis and legislation are two different things. It won't surprise the Chamber that the SP can support the bill. I would like to say a few words about the amendments. The first concerns Mrs Özütok's amendment. It seems to us very logical to add waterboards. I do not know if there is a huge need for referendums at water boards, but that does not mean that the possibility should be there. Frankly, I can imagine that could be interesting with all the discussions on water levels that are currently taking place. Maybe we can even break LTO's power a little bit, I'm just saying. So I wholeheartedly support that amendment. Then there is Mrs Van der Graaf's amendment to the Christian Union. We have problems with this for two reasons. The first point that has already been mentioned in the debate is whether or not you should explicitly include that percentage in the Constitution. Comparisons are always limp, but I'd like to compare it a little bit with how we did this in the Tickets Act. The Constitution states that any Dutch citizen over 18 years of age can stand for election to this Chamber. But for that, thresholds have been established in the Kieswet, for example that you have to put a deposit of €11,000, I believe, if you are not from a group that is already represented here, or that you have to collect 30 signatures in all 20 constituencies of the Netherlands. We have not included these thresholds in the Constitution. We have included this in the Kieswet, also in order to be able to change it relatively easily, if, for example, population growth or whatever. I therefore share Mr Van Raak's view that it does not make any sense to include it there. If you do, then there is also the percentage mentioned by Mrs Van der Graaf in the amendment, namely half, where the state committee assumes a third. We do not see any immediate reason for this increase. I quote the state committee, which says: 'Research shows that the representativeness of the result of a referendum is not demonstrably increased when the turnout is higher than about 25%'. From that point of view, the State Committee sees no reason for an outcome threshold that is much higher than that. We support that. We therefore have difficulty with both the way in which that amendment seeks to amend the Constitution and the threshold in particular. Finally, Mr Sneller's amendment on behalf of the D66 Group. I would be very sorry if that were accepted. In fact, I think that removes an important foundation of the legislative proposal. The 2005 referendum on the European Constitution has already been mentioned. I myself was active in this and I dare to say that there has never been so much and so much discussion about Europe in Dutch history as in that year. I would point out that the turnout rate in the Constitutional referendum was higher than the turnout rate in a European election in the Netherlands. When it comes to a democratic deficit, I do not see very many places where it is as important as in Europe. I mean both a real democratic deficit and a democratic deficit that people think they see, because both points are here. This may also apply to waterboards, I would add, but it seems that we all regard them as less crucial at the moment, perhaps wrong. The SP Group really wants to discourage this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u103	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a good discussion last week and today. I would like to congratulate Mr Van Raak on having been able to have this discussion with us today at such short notice. I would also like to congratulate him on his perseverance and his passion for the subject of corrective referendum. Also a word of thanks for the detailed answers to our questions and for the fact that he spoke so clearly about all the comments. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is strongly in favour of involving citizens in decision-making as closely as possible. Democracy belongs to all of us. That also means that we can all participate as much as possible. My group sees the corrective referendum as an addition to representative democracy and as a strengthening of our parliamentary system. I would also like to thank the author for his positive assessment of my amendment on waterboards. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Minister Ollongren from here on for her opinions, which we will indeed include in the discussion in my group of various amendments. It goes without saying that I will also discuss the amendments with my group and that we will involve them in our decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to Mr Van Raak for his answers, but of course especially for his heartfelt compliments. He said in his reply: 'I am defending the referendum which I think it can come about'. I do have some questions about that, because I hope so with him, but when I hear the discussion and, above all, Mrs Van der Graaf's input, I do not know what that is based on. If his successor in the Chamber will defend this law, the same First Chamber will have to look into it. I do not see the two-thirds majority in that, which Mr Van Raak sees there. So I invite the mathematician in him to include me in that reasoning. His group colleague says that I should not do this, or suggest that I should not ask, but I will. And, above all, because it seems to me that it is relevant to discuss her amendment a little more, including in his term. I fully understand the substance of his preference for discussing this threshold, in particular the threshold of outcome, in implementing legislation, and for determining it only there. At the same time, she has made it very clear that it is a prerequisite for her; that it is essential for her that it is in the Constitution. So in addition to his substantive appreciation, I would also like his more pragmatic appreciation, because he was so optimistic that he would not be Sisyphus but glue. I'd like to give him my heartfelt thanks. Let me ask you a question about the implementing law. I already asked the Minister. How does the petitioner see that? Because in the note following the report...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u107	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u108	..he says: I would like to treat it in parallel. If that is in six months' time, he will probably have that implementing law almost ready by now, and he might now be able to deal with some of the discussions he has put forward. But since he has referred to the level of the thresholds in that implementing legislation, I think it is also useful to know what he intends to put into it, or indeed to expect the government to come along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u109	My group does not intend to vote in favour of the amendments, both on the thresholds and on the international conventions. However, I would like to know whether it is a hard demand from D66 that this be incorporated into the Constitution. My group will then have to do so if it is to be able to maintain a majority. So I just want to know: is this a tough condition or is this a wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u110	I appreciate Mrs Kuik's constructive attitude. For me, this is a wish. Only, I referred to Mrs Van der Graaf's input, who said: this is essential, this is a prerequisite. So I think I'm in the same boat as Mrs. Chicken. And it is unfortunate that we will then have the debate without her presence, but it is precisely how we are going to ensure that the law we are about to adopt has that chance of success, so that Mr Van Raak's words can be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u111	I will ask Mrs Van der Graaf the same question. In any case, the amendment on international treaties is not a necessity for you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thank you, Mr. Faster. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mr. Chairman. I have already said in my first speech that my group intends to support the legislative proposal that is now before us. I do not necessarily need to support the amendments, except for Mrs Özütok's amendment to item No. 9. But I will, of course, see what the majorities are doing in this house, because we need to prevent the legislative proposal from being voted down. Mr. Chairman. I asked Mr Van Raak during the small suspension just how many legislative proposals he has passed through the Chambers. He said, "Well, I doubt, two, three or maybe four." At least there's a pattern in it. In his book Thinking on the dikes he especially points out that all philosophers were actually very bourgeois. I think that is a connection with Mr Van Raak, because I know that he is quite bourgeois in his private life. The issues he has chosen also affect citizenship very much: the whistleblower system, the referendum, but also the way in which Parliament operates. All that to do the best of service to that bourgeoisie, as I call it very flat. We are going to meet a lot in debates, but I think this is his last initiative proposal. That is why I would like to thank and congratulate Mr Van Raak for his perseverance and determination. He's obstinate, but always with humour, a wink and a smile. For many, I think he's a huge source of inspiration. I'm hoping for a majority. Congratulations and many thanks!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. And he hasn't left yet, has he? We're gonna be here a few months with him. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u115	It's over!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u116	He's completely convinced. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u117	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would add that Mr Van Raak is also an optimistic and expectant young man. It's fantastic to see that. It's good for a man. He has the firm hope that the SGP is now over after his glowing argument. I must say that once again I was pleased to hear that speech. I also recognise the thinking behind it: the binding corrective referendum is a kind of final piece of representative democracy. That's how you interpret it. It's a bit of a new-fashioned interpretation. That keeps sanding anyway, so I do not follow that reasoning at the end of the day. But it is not Mr Van Raak's glowing speech that ultimately I do not follow. I would like to thank him for his efforts and for the way in which the questions have been addressed. This also extends to the adviser to the initiator, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It has, I think, been good to have an exchange of views on this in this way. I am waiting a little while for the votes on the amendments. We still have to finalize our positions on this. I hope that Mr Van Raak's disappointment is not too great, but I must honestly say that we will be voting against this initiative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u118	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u119	Thank you, Madam President. I too have enjoyed Mr Van Raak's glowing speech. If you hear him like that, you'd think he could go on for years as a parliamentarians. At the same time, I have sensed an unusual reluctance to give Mr Van Raak his opinion. That is a pity, because we are usually very curious about his views. I discovered a discrepancy, on the one hand, in the fact that Mr Van Raak has now really shown himself to be a fan of the results of the Remkes Committee. I have rarely heard a SP'er so often and so convincingly quote a VVD'er. At the same time, I also find that he is a bit selective, in the sense that he has a different view at the moment when it is not quite in his own right. Anyway, he has that freedom, of course. That's what I'd like to say right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u120	Now I have to correct Mr Van Gent, because there is another Remkes committee. It's about nitrogen. I happen to be the spokesperson for that subject. I have always defended the conclusion of that committee with extreme caution, unlike the VVD, which largely rejects the conclusion. So my question would actually be: are you not afraid that Mr Remkes is beginning to take it personally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u121	I haven't heard from Mr Remkes about that. Of course, as a statesman, he is chairman of that committee, I would say, and not as a VVD member. But you're absolutely right. We are always talking about Remkes 1 and Remkes 2. I forget that sometimes. We are, of course, talking about Remkes 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u122	Of course, Mr Van Gent and the VVD Group are free to do what they want with opinions from state committees. It only stands out when you put several in a row next to you. Then you have to ask yourself: is the problem with the committees, or with the one who ignores the advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u123	Good. Proceed, Mr. Van Gent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u124	Of course, Mr Futselaar is free to draw his own conclusions. Despite the fact that I have listened carefully, I must say that the VVD maintains its objections to the bill. That is because, on the one hand, we really believe that it is contrary to what we call 'political culture'. The referendum is a form of all-or-nothing democracy. Then let's call the train again; it's been steamed more often. In a referendum you say: you can go right or you can go left. We are saying that the middle ground, the compromise, which is inherent in our polder policy, is not possible. In addition, there are two framework conditions which have now emerged on several occasions, namely that it is really necessary for a large majority of people - Mr Van Raak has also said it several times - to oppose a decision. However, referenda should not be used too often. It must be a selective means. To think about the train again: you shouldn't constantly pull the emergency brake, because then you really won't get anywhere. We do not see sufficient guarantees in this law to fulfil these two conditions. Now I know that Mr Van Raak has said several times: there will be a follow-up law in which you can arrange that. Anyway, if we have to judge this law on these merits, that's our conclusion. Finally, on the rather mandatory nature of the local referendums. This has already been mentioned by Mr Van der Molen. We attach great importance to the fact that the other floors in the house of Thorbecke can make their own assessment and that they have their own powers and their own autonomy in this matter. Thank you very much. And I would like to thank Mr Van Raak once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u125	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u126	Mr. Chairman. Last week's debate showed that the Chamber, like the citizens of our country I think, is cautiously in favour of the referendum. Careful, because there are also a number of hooks and eyes attached to the initiator's proposal. The proposal was a little critical last week. DENK has also asked a number of critical questions. The majority will eventually prevail over the outcome, and the position of minorities may be put at risk. This question has also been asked by a number of colleagues. If you write a referendum, a large majority of populist parties can still steer that in a certain direction, as I said last time, a law that we all adopted here. These are concerns that we in the DENK Group have about this law. This can lead to polarisation in society. The exception lists also made us frown the eyebrows. Tax laws, budgetary matters and the Royal House have not really been addressed by the initiator. Citizens should not interfere in the financial affairs of this government, but should pay for it themselves. I would like to ask the initiator to review the exceptional cases and, if necessary, to adapt them. The terms of the referendum also give rise to questions. In particular, the turnout threshold, which allows for a strategic turnout, creates concerns for the opposition. In addition, the combination of a referendum with elections can influence the turnout. That has been explained by the initiator, but there are still a number of fear scenarios about it. How is the initiator going to ensure that a minority of voters do not decide on such a referendum? Finally, Mr President. A referendum is a very important instrument for DENK, under the right conditions with just conditions. We therefore consider it important that the critical sounds from the Chamber are heard. The referendum is a necessary complement to our representative democracy. That is why we will first listen to the answers in the second period, before we clarify our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u127	Thank you, Mr Öztürk. Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u128	Thank you. Most of you, most of the people who are in politics, are not in politics because they have certain ideas, because they want something, but because they want the job. Most mayors, most of the members of the cabinet, most of the members of parliament blow a bit with all the winds. Then they have a cabinet on the left, then a cabinet on the right: the party cartel wants to be in power. It doesn't mean to change anything, "What am I standing up for in the morning?', That idea. Most of the politicians I've met in recent years haven't. The opposite also exists: people who really do not want to be in politics at all, but who simply want to change a number of things. I belong to that category. I wouldn't want to be a politician at all. I can think of other things I want to do with my life, but I'm here because I think it's necessary that some things change. Otherwise, the Netherlands is no longer the Netherlands. I see in the referendum a wonderful solution to that difference. If you're gonna let that referendum go, you're gonna get rid of nasty people like me. I would not have had to go into politics at all, and there are many people who would not have had to do that at all. Then this is your party, you have your job, your good secondary terms of employment, your decency, you can tell at night that you've eaten with the ambassador of this; all things you like. Then you can keep your job and then we have our referendum, we as a people. Then we can do a number of things that we do not want: mass immigration, 1,000 billion to that climate crap, an emergency law for a bullshit virus, something called'restoration fund', when it is actually a transfer fund to transfer money to southern Europe, nitrogen measures that wipe out the peasantry, all of these things, stupid things, we can then stop. Since you don't care anyway, you want to keep your jobs! I think we can find each other in a very good way. Those were the last things I had to add to my earlier long plea for the referendum. Salute for the petitioner and I hope it makes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u129	That gymnastics should explain to this vmbo that he belongs to the elite, I always find very comical. But I would just like to make the point from the previous discussion. Mr Baudet then opposed a threshold of turnout and a threshold of outcome. At that time we found that Mr Van Raak's proposal does have the possibility of introducing at least a threshold and a threshold for entry, which we discussed in the debate. Do I understand correctly that Mr Baudet is still opposed to an outcome threshold and an entry threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u130	Yeah, I'm against it. I do not think that is the right way to organise a referendum. But as I said last time, I prefer an imperfect referendum rather than a referendum, so we will simply vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u131	Then I'll come back to that point of the jobs. I understand very well that Mr Baudet is also general chairman of the Forum for Democracy party alongside the Member of Parliament. I have just looked in the statutes of the Forum for Democracy to see how the composition of the party administration can be changed. There can be a vote on whether or not someone has a job in it. The nice thing is: in paragraph 4, "the general meeting may decide to suspend or dismiss a member of the board only by a majority of at least two thirds of the votes cast"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's a turnout. My question to Mr Baudet is: why is a definition of outcome and turnout a good thing to protect Mr Baudet's job, and is it not correct if we want to introduce it for a referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u132	Because my job doesn't oblige anyone to transfer money to Southern Europe. Because my job and my party aren't forcing anyone to allow mass immigration into their own country. Because my job and my party aren't forcing anyone to give 1,000 billion in total stupid, pointless, crazy climate plans. Because Forum for Democracy stands for the Netherlands. That's the difference. You call yourself "elite." Perhaps I could say, in the footsteps of Mr Bosma's office, that it is a sham elite, of counterfeiters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u133	Good. I now turn to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA. I call Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u134	I do agree with what Mr Bosma said just outside the microphone. I'm not asking you to stand on the benches, but okay. I can also very much imagine that at the end of this long sitting you, as President, are thinking: perhaps we can do something else today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u135	No, not at all. I really like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u136	I won't make it very long, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to hearing the answers from Mr Van Raak and perhaps also from the Minister, who is here today as an advisor. I do not want to start with the original, after other colleagues have already said that at the end of this debate I had to think with a bit of melancholy about the fact that Mr Van Raak is most likely not to be present in the next period. We may think that we can say that with certainty about ourselves, but that is what the electorate will decide. I am now in my first term as a Member of Parliament. I met Mr Van Raak as a colleague. It is always a pleasure to be part of these debates, precisely because Mr Van Raak is able to put forward his arguments in a very clear way. That's how I experienced it today. I also like that he gives me a free copy of his latest book, which, I understand, can be obtained for €17.95 via Bol.com. Mr Van Raak said: 'We have been talking about the referendum for 35 years. It's like sticky herb: it stays in place for so long." Well, I hardly ever see people walking around with sticky herbs for a very long time. It used to be on the school square that if we had someone in the corner with a few then and had put it under the glue, I'd say that quite honestly; or it happened to yourself... you didn't know how fast you had to get rid of it. I think Mr Van Raak's perseverance is commendable, but as a CDA, as with all the glue, we will at least say that there are insufficient arguments on this point as far as we are concerned. As the Council of State said, it is a fundamental change in representative democracy. As a CDA, we attach great importance to this representative democracy. The fact that there is now a proposal that exhaustively lists what a referendum should not be about and that there are parties who want to add things to it shows that a lot of things are extremely complex and that they are difficult to bring back to a simple yes or no. I felt that the Minister of the Interior was very clear in the argument against the bill. There is indeed a tension between representative and direct democracy. Mr Van Raak said so himself. He said to us in the Chamber, "Don't be afraid, because this isn't gonna change anything." This isn't gonna change our minds as MPs. The way we do it here isn't gonna change anything. Until the journalists, Mr Van Raak said nothing would change. Mr. Chairman. I also said this in the first term: there is the crux. The crux is not that people go to the ballot box once every four years, but that they may have a referendum on a limited list of subjects under strict conditions once every four years. It's about how representative we are here. If we are chosen directly in another way, perhaps through a district or a constituency, it will change completely here. Then Members of Parliament will have much more room to express their own opinion and not just the opinion that has been agreed in the group. I think that would be healthy. That would really change something here, including those 99 out of 100 laws that will never be subject to a referendum. As a CDA, we have an unexcited expectation of a referendum. I see that colleagues are already busy trying to raise the thresholds and reduce the number of subjects. So I also see the tension with other parties. I think that selling this as the way to close the gap with the citizen is a false argument to borrow Mr Baudet's word 'appears'. A number of amendments have been tabled. I am thinking, perhaps together with other parties, of tabling an amendment on the issue of co-governments. We still have to look at that because we wanted to wait for Mr Van Raak's answer. As the Minister said, it is actually quite separate to put this on the side of the fellow governments without having asked in advance whether they are waiting for it. I would add that Thorbecke's house is also built on the basis that these governments are independent. They may make their own, local, political considerations. I cannot dwell on the idea that this should not be the case in a referendum. They can choose for themselves now. A city council in which the SP is very large and is still against a referendum must keep the room to make that local consideration. I do not think it is appropriate that an initiative law should remove that freedom. In any case, I will give that to Mr Van Raak. We still have to discuss how we relate to the amendments. I wish Mr Van Raak extra success in the First Chamber if some of the amendments he has passionately dissuaded were accepted. Then he'll have to convince the First Chamber that his crippled law needs to be passed. If I see how he has defended his bill with passion today, it may be possible, to the disappointment of myself, to make things right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u137	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Let me see if Mr Van Raak needs a short suspension. You can answer right away? Then I'm gonna love it. How lovely! I give the floor to Mr Van Raak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u138	Yes, thank you very much. I can answer directly. I am, of course, defending this law here, but in some respects I am also a spectator of this debate. In the end, there will have to be a two-thirds majority for any referendum. Mr Baudet said he would rather be imperfect. We must make a law here as a Lower House to allow the people, the citizens here outside the Chamber, to correct us. The right law is the law that can count on a two-thirds majority. Thank you for all the comments about myself. Mrs. Kuik said I was bourgeois and Mr. Bishop said I was new-fashioned. Well, I guess I'm just gonna stay in the middle of that. My associate had to laugh very hard at that "civil." I'm afraid that's a little true. A bourgeois revolutionary; I don't know if it exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u139	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u140	Here's one. And that goes a little bit for how this referendum is going. If I were allowed to make a referendum bill, from scratch, out of nowhere, he wouldn't look like that. But we are now having 35 years of discussion about the referendum. State committees, parties that have made laws, parties that have had discussions, have changed their positions and perhaps will do so in the future, I say to Mr Van Gent. I'm gonna have to give it out of my hands now, too. I'm gonna answer all the questions, but I'm gonna have to give it out of my hands now. I took this law out of the trash a few years ago, I cleaned it up, and I presented it here. I think it is important that we give this tool to our citizens. I think it is important that we give people the opportunity to correct us. The only law that is going to work is the law that will soon pass through the Second and First Chambers by a large majority. Mr Krol spoke of the need to restore confidence, Mr Futselaar, of the need for a counter-power. Thank you very much for all your support, including Mrs Özütok, Mrs Kuik, Mr Öztürk, Mr Bosma and Mr Baudet. Thank you all for the support that is to come. Thank you, too, to Mrs Van der Graaf. I understand, of course, that Mr Sneller and Mrs Van der Graaf say: these amendments are very important to us; what does Mr Van Raak think of them? I do not think it is a good amendment. I would very much like to lay down a basis. Mrs Özütok's is fine with me. However, when it comes to the threshold of outcome and those treaties, I would really like to call for a basis to be included in the Constitution and to settle it in parallel with the second reading with a two-thirds majority. Who is going to do that, who is going to make the implementing law, Mr Sneller asks. I'm not gonna do that later. I hope to be able to cooperate, perhaps, in the background. But that's really up to the next House of Representatives and not us. The cabinet can do that, but I would like it and perhaps I would also like it if this democratic means were to be defended by one or more Members of Parliament in second reading, independently of a cabinet by the Chamber, on the initiative of the House of Representatives, and that the implementing law would also be made by the Chamber and approved by two-thirds majority. Have I got that law in the drawer yet? No, I don't have it in the drawer because this is really something that's gonna have to be discussed here. Today, here and later in the vote, we can make that binding corrective referendum possible, and we can improve and strengthen our country, this Parliament, our democracy. Here's what's gonna happen. What exactly is the effect? That requires a two-thirds majority, and I am very much in favour of leaving it to the next parliament, the parliament that will be approved by the electorate in March. And yes, amendments have been tabled and I have given my opinion on them. I'll stick with that. I'll give it out of my hands and then it's up to you. It's also up to you to send me across the street later. Then I'm gonna defend that right there. Just as I defended the law I found in the trash can, I am going to defend your wish there too, because I think there should be a referendum. But send me across the street with something I can work with. Once again, let the discussion begin, let the views, the thresholds of the state committee be kicked off and let me get something good across the street. I may be able to say a very brief word about the consultant's comments, but I have already responded to most of them in my first reply. In the context of time, I would not want to do that again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mr. Van Raak, thank you so much for your speech. I know that it is not easy for a Member of Parliament to work alongside the ordinary Chamber of Representatives on an initiative legislative proposal. Plagiarism or not, it's a lot of work. I would also like to say the following. All kinds of comments have been made about career, cartels, etc., but this shows that ideals can also be realised in politics and that changes can be made. I think that is why many Members of Parliament have gone into politics. You've always fought for this. I really like the fact that you're actually putting an end to your political career with such a proposal in box K. So thank you very, very much for that. I would also like to thank Nicole Temmink, because without support we can't keep it up here. And, of course, I'd like to thank the Home Secretary. I'm just gonna close up, but I still have to give her the floor. After you've been, I'm going to thank you again, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mr President, I was very pleased that you were going to thank Mr Van Raak in detail. I will be very brief, because there are not many questions or comments to which I have to respond. But still a few things, because a good advisor continues to advise until the time when the others decide in this case is that your Chamber should take a decision. So I would like to emphasise the following again. If Mrs Özütok starts working on her amendment, then the cabinet's opinion really is to broaden the scope to the waterboards in such a way that it will always apply, as well as to the Caribbean public bodies. That is in terms of scope. I have the impression that Mrs Özütok is in good hands. With regard to the thresholds, I should like to add the following. You have just spoken in detail about Mrs Van der Graaf's amendment of the Christian Union. I have already said that the cabinet is in favour of including that concrete threshold in the Constitution. The Christian Union's proposal is largely based on the suggestion of the Council of State, because if the turnout in the Lower House elections is about 80%, then you need about 40% of the number of voters in a referendum. That is something that the cabinet could agree with in itself, but I would like to make a comment on something that has just come to light. I do not think it is entirely balanced that the amendment only sees the outcome threshold and not the other thresholds. I did mention it in my term. It is then about the thresholds in the preliminary stage of the referendum. The Cabinet of Constitutional Order also finds them. The cabinet would therefore be in favour of regulating those thresholds in the Constitution. There is, of course, also a practical argument for this, because if there were no 'two-thirds' law on the thresholds, then we would actually have nothing. It is therefore for this reason, as far as we are concerned, that we really recommend it. Finally, the third point I raised as an advisor. That's that exhaustive list you could expand. I have said that, as far as we are concerned, this can be extended to include mixed agreements. Faster, this has been proposed even more broadly in his amendment. But the absolute bottomline for the cabinet is at least a basis in the proposal, in the constitutional amendment, so that it can then be regulated by law in order to rule out those treaties. Mr President, that is what I wanted to add in this last term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u143	Thank you. Thanks also to the Minister for her opinions to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-09-tweedekamer-6.u144	Next week we will have Princess Day and the General Political Reviews, but the next week I thought on 22 September we will vote on the bill and the amendments tabled. Thanks again.
