ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is a VSO Developments at Sanquin Plasma Products B.V., Room Document 29447, nr. 60. I would like to welcome the Minister for Medical Care and give Mrs Van den Berg the floor on behalf of the CDA. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u2	I can only see that there are not enough Members in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u3	Then we wait for a moment, because we must have enough members present. You have one motion? You may also include a few CDA members as supporter of the motion. Those are the procedural tricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u4	Yeah, we'll do it that way. I have two motions and I'm going to file them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u5	Good. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA has long argued for Europe to become more self-sufficient in pharmaceutical production. With the sale of Sanquin Plasma Products, the production facility remains in the Netherlands, but control is held by non-European shareholders. The CDA finds this extremely regrettable, because we certainly also consider plasma production to be a vital sector. In response to our questions, the Minister provides more clarity on the pricing of plasma, the corona antibody agent and the real estate, but I still have the following questions. The Minister is not yet able to say anything about the consequences for employees in the Netherlands and Belgium. Is she prepared to inform the Chamber about this before April 2021? Then, what percentage of resale of shares by members of the consortium can the Minister intervene in order to make new agreements on making Dutch plasma available? Thirdly, can the Minister confirm that plasma can only be collected in the Netherlands by the Sanquin Foundation at a cost compensation determined by the Minister? Because we see that commercial parties want to get a foothold in this area too. Then two motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to investigate how the supply of plasma medicinal products (collecting and production) within Europe can be organised in such a way that there is European self-sufficiency, since we now have to import almost 40% of plasma from outside Europe, and report to the Chamber for budgetary treatment 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into what the Dutch blood supply should look like in the future and whether it is necessary or desirable for more public guidance to be given to the Blood Supply Organisation, and to report on this to the Chamber for budgetary treatment 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Berg, Veldman, Van Gerven, Peters and Palland.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29447-62]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg, Mr Peters and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29447-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. I'll start by reading two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Minister agrees to the sale of Sanquin Plasma Products B.V. to a foreign consortium;]] [[Whereas the maintenance of public control over the production and development of plasma medicinal products is in line with the desire to become more self-sufficient as the Netherlands when it comes to the production and development of essential medicinal products;]] [[points out that, in consultation with Sanquin, the Minister must renegotiate the sale of Sanquin Plasma Products B.V., with the Sanquin blood bank holding a majority stake of at least 51% in Sanquin Plasma Products B.V.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister agrees to the sale of Sanquin Plasma Products B.V. to a foreign consortium;]] [[considers that this sale is undesirable from the public interest and that plasma medicinal products should be held in Dutch hands;]] [[Calls on the Government not to allow the sale of Sanquin Plasma Products B.V. to take place but to develop an alternative plan to preserve Sanquin Plasma Products B.V. for Sanquin and the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29447-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29447-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u8	I find the process we are talking about extremely intricate. We recently received all kinds of additional information from the Minister about the sale of an extremely important pharmaceutical manufacturing institution in the Netherlands, also known for the development of medicines. We just do that in sales, completely contrary to the experiences we have with the coronavirus and the desire to keep more development and production in the Netherlands. We're doing the opposite. How come we're doing this now that we have the opportunity not to? Finally, I would like to ask the following question. How can we sell a company that has made 74 million profits in four years? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Van Gerven. I'm suspending for five minutes to copy and distribute the final motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u10	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr President, thank you. Thanks also for the contribution of the MPs, not only for the input of today, but also for the written input and for the previous exchanges of views with the cabinet. Before I go on to appreciate the motions and answer the questions, let me say a few things. I fully understand the wish of Members of Parliament to keep the production we have for the Netherlands. But this is clearly more than just maintaining a factory. It is also about the 'how', the question of how we can keep this factory. What does this factory need to sustain itself in the future? This particular case of Sanquin Plasma Products B.V. (SPP) requires more than just a lot of money. It is also about expertise that is needed, a network to be able to participate in that plasma drug market. We exchanged views with the Chamber and concluded that the Dutch situation is actually too small to maintain a plant for its own market, that much more plasma is needed to process and that we should also focus on new markets. The consortium has plasma that SPP can process, has expertise and has the network to tap into new markets. I think it is of the utmost importance that the production facility can be maintained, because then there is also security of supply of plasma medicines from the Dutch plasma. But the future is also important. Mr. Chairman. In the cabinet's view, the best option for SPP participation by the consortium is to maintain the production facility in the Netherlands for the future, thus ensuring the security of supply of plasma medicines in the Netherlands for at least ten years. This becomes extremely uncertain without the participation of the consortium. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I would like to answer the questions. Mrs Van den Berg has asked a number of questions. She asked if I am prepared to inform the Chamber of the impact on employees by April 2021. Did Mrs Van den Berg mention April 2021, or did I perhaps add it myself? I will inform the Chamber; I would certainly like to do so. Mrs Van den Berg also asked what percentage of resale of the shares I could intervene in and, if necessary, make new arrangements for making the Dutch plasma available. When the consortium sells at least 25% of the shares, SPP must inform me immediately. Then I can consider whether additional conditions should be imposed on the foundation, or on SPP, so that the security of supply of plasma medicinal products from Dutch plasma remains assured. As soon as the consortium loses more than 50% of its shares of SPP, I will have to be asked for permission again anyway. Then I will, in the direction of Mrs Van den Berg, re-assess whether SPP is the right party to secure the supply of plasma medicinal products in the Netherlands. And if such a situation arises, I will, of course, inform the Chamber again. Finally, Mrs Van den Berg asked whether the plasma in the Netherlands could only be collected against a cost compensation determined by the Minister. It's laid down in the law. It shall be prohibited to reimburse a donor more than the reasonable costs incurred by him or her. And in the Netherlands, only the Sanquin Foundation is allowed to collect blood and plasma. The only expenses paid by Sanquin are travel expenses, which I do not think is wrong. Furthermore, donors receive an attention as a token of appreciation after a number of donations. Then we talk about an attention in the order of size of a coffee mug or a bath towel. There is now a test with a savings system in which the donor is not automatically given a standard attention after so many times, but can save for something else. That can be an experience, but also an amount that can be donated to a good cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u12	I know that there is a European industry association of commercial plasma companies. That is precisely where I think we are at the moment looking to see if we can get signatures to change that in the Netherlands. The Minister says: they cannot get a foothold, because the Minister determines what the conditions are and what the expenses are. We hear that there are still major differences within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mrs van den Berg says it quite frankly as I would like to say, so I agree with her. That's correct. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg's motion for a resolution on European self-sufficiency is a matter for the House. I will say a few words about it, because this is a very important issue. I can also taste that in the SP motions, although they have a slightly different operative part, but it is on the same subject. I also recognise it from the discussions with the Chamber, but certainly also from Mrs van den Berg's contribution: European self-sufficiency. The plasma medicinal product market is constantly changing. In the 1990s, nine not-for-profit plasma drug manufacturers were active in Europe and by now only two are active: one in the Netherlands and one in France. Both suffer major losses. If you look at the world market, you can see that there are now four parties that determine the market. Apart from the closure of the factories, plasma collection has also fallen significantly. I think Mrs Van den Berg is putting down a very good agenda. I agree with the idea of European self-sufficiency. With other countries, I would like to develop a strategy to be less dependent on the United States in this case. The European Commission has also noted in the evaluation of the Blood Directive that Europe is becoming too dependent on American plasma. It may not be possible as a country to be self-sufficient, but I would very much like to find out what the possibilities are for dealing with this with several countries. For this, I will also report to the Chamber for the budget review 2022. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg's second motion deals with the desirability of directing public law. The Court is asked to report on this before the budgetary procedure. I'll give you that motion as well. At the moment, we see that the Blood Supply Act has been in force for more than 20 years. This also means that we have been working in this way for a long time with blood supply in the Netherlands. Twenty years ago, it was chosen to retain the Blood Supply Organisation as a private legal entity. Sanquin was also a hybrid organization at the time, in addition to a private organization. This means that in addition to the exclusive right to collect blood and plasma as well as the sale of short-lived blood products, such as red blood cells, it produced and traded plasma medicines in competition. But by now, as you all know, the production of plasma medicines is legally separate from the Sanquin Foundation. The Sanquin Foundation remains ultimately responsible for the statutory task of plasma medicinal products. I think it is good, and I certainly have no objection to it, if the organisation of the Dutch blood supply is re-examined. I would like to do so in a very open manner, in which the question put by Mrs van den Berg can also be asked whether the public interests that exist with the current structure are sufficiently guaranteed. I would like to put that back on the budget for 2020. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gerven's first motion calls for a ruling from the Chamber. Then it is not for me to express my opinion on that. But one could say that the same approach is reflected in the second motion, which calls on the government not to allow the agreement to continue. I do not recommend this motion because I am convinced that it is in the interests of security of supply and production facilities in the Netherlands that we need a future for SPP and that this can be guaranteed. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u14	Look, the Minister doesn't want to go on my first motion to retain a majority vote for Sanquin, it's a little faint. But I'm assuming she's also deceiving them. Two things. First of all: it is very navrant that people in the Netherlands donate blood and eventually a commercial company with its products gets their hands on it. We should not want that, and that is the Minister's proposal. Can the Minister respond to that again? Secondly, can it also respond to the fact that in the last four years, in so far as the annual reports are public, SPP has made a profit of 74 million? How is that possible: a profit of 74 million and still putting a company like that on sale?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u15	I feel a certain reluctance to appreciate speech-expressions. But if Mr Van Gerven would have liked that, I would have advised her not to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u16	I wouldn't do that, because otherwise we're gonna comment on all the speech issues here, and Mr Van Gerven knows that very well. Anything's fine, but I won't let you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll maintain my restraint and I won't. As Mr Van Gerven points out, you will eventually need an organisation that can do this, that can make medicines, that can generate them from plasma. The correlation between, on the one hand, government interest, public interest, and, on the other hand, the fact that this is happening in a company, I do not think it is necessarily a contradiction, especially since it concerns the public framework conditions that you impose on it. I would therefore like to answer Mr Van Gerven's first question. As for the second question, I understand the surprise. But I can tell Mr Van Gerven that in a short time the necessary has happened at SPP. For example, an assignment from a very large customer has been reduced to zero. That happened unexpectedly fast. That had to do with the fact that that customer had an alternative that no longer required plasma. This means that much has changed for this company in a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u18	It was known. That's old news. But in 2018 50 million profits were made by SPP. It is a crucial provision for the Netherlands. They are important tools, innovative as well. In the past, they have made an important contribution to the fight against angioneurotic oedema; so top of the bill. Why is it that the cabinet is not taking the gauntlet to keep this company properly on its feet and to invest in it and, for example, to seek cooperation with France, which is in the same position? This is also in line with one of Corona's lessons, namely: should we not become self-sufficient in medicines?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u19	I'd suggest cutting a few things. Self-sufficiency is essential. Therefore, the production security and security of supply of plasma medicinal products have been a driving factor in the assessment of this acquisition. It's now guaranteed. At the same time, I have also indicated that it is not given that you can keep an organisation with only money, because you need expertise, a network and innovation. The government can't take care of that on its own. The Chamber instructs me not to lose sight of that public interest. I have also given a ruling to the Chamber on Mrs Van den Berg's motion to use the next ten years, and I think that it would be a good idea to see if there are other routes. After all, we should not sit back and think: it is settled. But my first interest, my priority is to ensure the security of supply and the production facility in the Netherlands, and that is possible with this construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u20	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u21	One final remark. What's happening here, we're gonna be so sorry. I recall the sale of vaccine production about ten years ago. We're very sorry about that now. We are now making the same mistake with SPP, with plasma drug production. Death and mortal sin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u22	I have explicitly given the importance for the Netherlands a place in the agreements in the form of security of supply and production security, surrounded by a variety of public framework conditions in case there are changes in business operations. I think that the locks on the door, to put it that way, put forward by Mrs Van den Berg, offer an alternative agenda to ensure that, in any case, we can further shape it, also looking at the European security of supply situation. I'd be happy to let the Chamber know for next November.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-09-tweedekamer-11.u24	We shall vote on the motions tabled tomorrow. I thank the Minister.
