ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u1	The next item is the report (Doc. I welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and, of course, the spokesmen. I give the floor to Mr Wilders as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u2	Mr. Chairman. I start with a quote from Hugo de Jonge: "If vaccines are delivered later, everything is ready. Even if the vaccine developers were able to deliver as early as December, we can get right to work." Now the reality. The first vaccination will take place on 8 January. I expect a nice moment from the Minister. On January 11th will be vaccinated at three locations, but the real big start at 25 locations is only on January 18th. Because the GGD, the minister writes, still has to work on setting up a call centre for appointments and the IT system still needs to be completed and tested. You're not gonna believe it! What amateurism, what an embarrassment! We've known for months that a vaccine is coming. We've known for weeks that it'll be at the end of this year. How the hell is it possible that the GGD and the minister haven't gotten their shit together a long time ago? And then there's the call centers. I thought they were supposed to be ready by now. How is it possible that it isn't? That IT system, how do you make it up? Shouldn't you have been finished and tested long ago? Why isn't that settled already? Why can Germany start vaccination at the end of December? Why can Belgium start right after Christmas? Why can Italy start right after Christmas? Why can France and Poland start right after Christmas? How is it that the United Kingdom started vaccination on 8 December? Exactly a month earlier than the Netherlands. The conclusion can be no other than that the Netherlands is once again behind it, while we are in a lockdown. It can't be described with a pen. Mr. Chairman. Vaccination must, of course, always and only on a voluntary basis. There can and should never be compulsion or urge. I am glad that my motion, which says so, has been passed by the Chamber. But if a lot of people volunteer to be vaccinated, it will, of course, bring the moment closer to getting our freedom back and we can put that terrible lockdown behind us. Every week that we lose because we start unnecessarily late with voluntary vaccination by the clumsy of the cabinet means that our shops, our restaurants in the Netherlands should stay closed for longer than necessary, that people should stay home longer than necessary. It has been this Minister of Health himself who has been saying since this summer that the vaccine is the solution for corona. He previously rejected certain medications and repeatedly emphasized that the vaccine is his great magic word. How then is it that the same minister does not already have the infrastructure to administer those vaccines in place? It's not the first time he's been messing around. Also in the source and contact research he did not have the infrastructure in order. The test policy has been an even bigger mess if possible for months. And now we're in a lockdown, a completely different situation than the minister had when he came up with his vaccination strategy. The shops are closed, the restaurants are closed, the schools are closed, people are at home, and everyone wants this to take as short as possible. So what are you supposed to do? Then you need to remove the pressure on the hospitals as soon as possible. And then it can't be that, if you really start vaccination on January 8th, you're going to spend about six weeks with the first group, the care workers, then you're going to do the nursing homes and you're only going to start vaccination the people who cause the pressure in hospitals, like the 70-plussers with a disease? My question to the Minister is therefore: how long on earth are we gonna be in this lockdown when you're so clumsy and when this group's turn is so late? Mr President, the lockdown should not last a minute longer than necessary. This minister isn't helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u4	Mr. Chairman. I heard the minister at Nieuwsuur say that it doesn't really matter that much, a little sooner or a little later: something for Christmas or something after Christmas. Today I heard it again. I can't believe he really does. It matters a lot. It's a dangerous virus. We don't want people to get that. We want the care workers in front of us to be protected from that virus and not get sick. Yes, the Minister says, but it has to be careful. The entire House of Representatives agrees: it must be careful. It is of the utmost importance that it goes carefully. But does that mean, in the eyes of the minister, that the Germans are less careful than we are? Does it mean that the Belgians are less careful than we are? Does it mean that, according to this cabinet, all European countries that are faster than the Netherlands are doing less careful than we are? Or could it be that we started too late? How hard can it be to make a call script? That is the reason given in the letter. Let's get the best people together to make another call script tonight. Testing IT. Shouldn't they be testing IT systems in those other countries? How can it take us so much longer than other countries? Why not January 8th? And is it a symbolic shot on January 8th? How many people are actually vaccinated? Why only on January 11th, three locations? The Fair is empty, Ahoy is empty, RAI is empty: locations are too over. How can another week be vaccinated at 25 locations? Why is that important? That is also because we want to make sure that we do not take this delay and that it cannot lead to this, and I would like to have a guarantee from the Minister that future deliveries of vaccines will be delayed, because the Netherlands is lagging behind. After all, it has been agreed that countries should not hoard. What about the staff? We discussed this extensively a few weeks ago. Can the Minister reassure us and guarantee that sufficient staff has been found to test at the same time who needs to be tested and who needs to be vaccinated? Mr. Chairman. My appeal would be: bring together the best people, make sure it is careful, but learn from our European neighbours and allies and start vaccination as soon as possible. After all, you protect the caregivers, you protect the people they care for, and you begin to face the light at the end of the corona tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The crisis needs to be combated with a Byzantine web of health insurers, nursing companies, GGD regions and hospitals operating as independent companies. The nursing and home care that most need the support, leaves the Ministry in the cold. The Minister sets himself up as the highest press officer instead of the boss. There is no crisis approach with a central plan." This is a quote from De Groene Amsterdammer yesterday. Journalists have made a reconstruction of the ministry of VWS. We fear that this is true. Many people were surprised when Minister Hugo de Jonge said that we could start vaccination on January 4th. That's great, everyone thought, because the sooner we get rid of this virus, the better. But there was also very quick criticism from all kinds of parties that will have to deal with vaccination, the parties that will have to carry it out. They asked: is it feasible? They don't know if that's gonna work. The Minister has said several times in the Chamber that the date on which the vaccine would become available was the only factor to determine when we would start vaccination. Gradually, it seems as if the Minister has been back here again and that he does not have his affairs in order. It has now been decided not to vaccinate the most vulnerable people, the people who live in a nursing home, but the people who work there, the care staff. Our question is: can the Minister explain that again? Is it true that Germany is choosing to vaccinate the most vulnerable, namely the people living in a nursing home, first? Doesn't it seem the most effective thing to do right now in the fight against the virus? The same obviously happens in the US and Scotland. Can the Minister make it clear once again what exactly is going on? He recently told the newspaper in detail how difficult it is for a minister to operate if you have little national direction on all kinds of different GGDs, which are also organized in all kinds of different ways and work with different systems. I think he's right about that. That's what I said here in the Chamber. But my question is: surely there must have been some learning? Surely lessons have been learned from the situation in March and April? How does the Minister look at that now? Previously, for example in the source and contact research, it appeared that the GGDs work with all kinds of different systems. I thought you said you knew about that. What's happened since then? What arrangements have been made with the GGD in order to improve cooperation? Then there's the ICT system. No one has been able to predict this virus, of course not, but we all knew that one day there would be a vaccine and that we would need a system to register it. How can we now find ourselves in a situation where it seems that the ICT system is not yet in order, which prevents us from starting to vaccinate as much as possible? What has been done or done in the past few months, or perhaps not done and not done? Perhaps the Minister will say later that we must be manoeuvrable. That's a word we've been hearing a lot lately. But it is not the first time that the minister presents a beautiful story in front of a rotating camera, giving hope to the country, but which he has to come back to afterwards. It happened before at the app. It happened earlier on the test. It happened earlier in the source and contact investigation. It happened earlier with the protective agents. And it's threatening to happen again. Often it seems that preparations have started too late. That is also my question today: have we not just started this again too late? We are on the eve of a new peak in the number of infections, in the number of deaths and in the number of people who become ill. We're facing some very difficult weeks. We have already asked a great deal from our caregivers and we are going to ask for a great deal more from them. They are near exhaustion. The ic's are threatening to get fuller than in the previous peak, if we can believe Ernst Kuipers. We have only one appeal to Minister De Jonge tonight: this cannot go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u8	Mr. Chairman. It's fantastic news that the first vaccine will probably be approved next week. I do stand here with great concern. We have often had the debate on testing capacity in the Netherlands and how we should put it in order. We have had the same debate on vaccination. And it still doesn't seem right. Why am I so critical about that? We do not have much in order in this crisis. No one has asked for the virus and no one can predict when a vaccine has been developed. But we can control a number of things. This concerns, for example, the capacity of the GGDs and ICT systems that need to be in order. Many times, from left to right and from coalition to opposition, the Chamber has called for everything to be ready to be vaccinated immediately. The Minister says that a week or less doesn't matter, but it does. This morning I talked to a nurse at the ICU, who said that in the hospital every day people leave their lives and that they help others there with danger for their own lives. That's why we just want these people to be protected as soon as possible. Then a week or less really matters. I have great concerns that it's not in order. I have some questions about that. The big question remains: have other colleagues also talked about it? Why does it seem that it is in order in Germany, for example? Why are they going to be able to administer the first vaccinations before Christmas? Lower Saxony with a small 8 million inhabitants has 50 test sites, which have already been set up. In the Netherlands, the GGD, if I understand correctly, only started exploring locations where vaccinations should take place in the week of 7 December. My first question to the Minister is: is it true that the GGD did not start this process until 7 December? Why didn't they work on this until so late? When did the Minister order the GGDs to do this? Second. It's been said all along that company doctors would jump in. 9 December by RIVM, but on 16 December by the association of company doctors, the company doctors indicated that they cannot press a button and can then simply supply company doctors. When exactly were these appointments made with those company doctors? Was this just an idea from the RIVM or the cabinet? Or were these agreements really the basis for this? Why did the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport say to RTL News on 12 November: everything is ready to vaccinate and the vaccination strategy will be published in November? Based on what did he say everything was ready to go vaccinate? When exactly did he start building the ICT system? On what date was the order from the Ministry that a system should be built? If you can open three locations in January, why not 25? Where's the difference over there? Mr. Chairman. Every day can make a difference. Let me be very clear: I will never lose or attack or criticize this minister on matters that he has no influence on. If Pfizer says the vaccine doesn't come in the week of the 21st, but it doesn't come in March, then this minister can't do anything about it. But I will remain extremely critical of all the things that he does control as a minister: how many people we have to place the vaccinations, whether there has been a computer system built up over the past few weeks or months that allows us to register, whether there are enough locations. These are all things that you can prepare independently of which vaccine we get at exactly what time. The fact that this did not happen is negligent. I would like the Minister to clarify this timeline, where things have gone wrong over the past few weeks. I ask this because it is of the utmost importance that for the coming period, if there are more vaccines, this is in order in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with my most important point: please let go of that fine-meshed structure that we have in the Netherlands, which makes us so special and different from others, and opt for large-scale vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u10	Mr President, we read in the letter: 8 January the first vaccinations with the corona vaccine in the Netherlands. Wow. In March, that was still pure fantasy. For months, it was a dream. Weeks ago, it seemed unfeasible. When the Minister said 4 January, we said here: ho, ho, don't give up false expectations, because that is very early. Mr. Chairman. Yet 8 January now seems late, because why do other countries with the same vaccine from the same manufacturer announce their starting date at the end of December? Why are we now seeing an EU campaign that says it's going to happen 27, 28, 29 December? Then the pricking starts in Europe. Rescue is at hand. Of course, it must first be careful and then as soon as possible. When I read the letter, I think it's careful. But the question is whether some of them can't go any faster. The fact that EEA approval comes a week earlier should not be a surprise. This should not have the effect that the next steps cannot be brought forward. The Minister indicated in a debate in November to Mr Veldman: we have been preparing for months and we do not need scenarios to discuss with the Chamber. That's just distracting. We know what we're doing. When 8 January starts that vaccination as it should be, with all the scripts and all the systems all ready, the question is first of all to the Minister: is that really as soon as possible? Can't we go any faster? And if it can't be done faster here, why can't it be done in the other countries? Or is it perhaps the case that these other countries are taking a different approach? Do these countries not have their entire system and infrastructure done much sooner than they start vaccinating? Are the medical guidelines, the bell scripts, the administration and the system tests perhaps not fully completed when the first shot goes in, but do they perhaps separate from the system a kind of beta-execution in the first days? That they don't already have the system in which you want to do everything later on up and running, but that they start with a limited number of vaccines. That they'll keep it separate and put it into those systems later. That they may not have incorporated all the side effects and contraindications from the EEA report into the scripts in detail, but that they start safely with people who do not have a contra-indication or allergy in any way. When I heard myself say this or when I thought of it later, I could imagine someone in that organization saying, "Yes, nice, but that's extra work and it doesn't matter if you count back from the end of January. It's not a permanent head start they're building. They start early, nice, but then she slows it down again. At the end of January we are on the same level, even if we only start the 8th." That may be from the organization, but I think we shouldn't just think from there. I think starting with a limited group, called a pilot, has great value. Then maybe you don't bring out the whole system.I don't think anyone expects all those 500,000 doses to be pricked in December but you'll start as soon as possible. That signal has a lot of value. Choose an x number of nursing homes by hand and inoculate the staff who do not have any contra-indications and of course want to have the vaccine themselves. Then update the system with that second needle and register it in the meantime by hand or in the BIG system. Take experience on this, because the practice always gives new insights. Also start building on that ring of protection around our elders. Also start building confidence in the vaccine across the population. If this doesn't make sense from the vaccination program, I don't know, that's a question. Use it as the start of your vaccination campaign. The Minister also mentions it in the letter. By starting earlier with all of them, in all those countries, and not feeling like we're later, there can be no public relations budget. From the anti-campaign, we can really say that it's already completely steamed online, so we don't have time to waste. Does the Minister see opportunities for this and would he like to organise this? Is there any other way he can explain to me what I'm missing or missing? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about scaling up after the first batch of vaccines. For the first round, the GGD takes two times three weeks for 225,000 people. How do we ensure that it goes at a higher rate after that? I know how to start and adjust, but then the machine has to get on steam, otherwise it'll take 160,000 weeks and we don't have that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This week we received the good news that the EEA will approve the vaccine as early as 21 December instead of 29 December. Then you might think that we could start earlier, as all the countries around us actually do, but that soon turned out to be false hope, because we are not prepared for that in the Netherlands. We have known for months that the vaccine is coming, but now all the preparations seem to be happening at the last minute. Of course, as far as we're concerned, care is paramount. But that the IT system that is needed, among other things, to register who has had which vaccine now that the bottleneck appears to be, how is it possible? How come this system isn't ready yet? Can the Minister guarantee that it will be done in time and will work well? The government has some bad experiences with IT and we are deeply concerned that testing is still needed. It can't be that we're going to be in the starting blocks, but that the GGDs can't vaccinate because the IT system isn't working yet? Is there a plan B? What if the system doesn't work? The Minister writes that we can only vaccinate at 25 central locations from 18 January. This is the fastest possible schedule, according to the Minister, because then steps can only be taken after information on the adoption of the EEA. I just don't understand. Those locations could've been done by now, right? How long does the Minister think it's gonna take to vaccinate all the employees who get to be the first? Can he guarantee that the use of GGD staff for vaccination will not be at the expense of testing for the coronavirus? And why didn't you contact vaccination expert Herman van der Weide? He was on display in Nieuwsuur, I believe the day before yesterday. He was programme manager of the Mexican influenza vaccination program in 2009. And he too cannot understand why we started these preparations so late. Because we've known this vaccine is coming for months, right? Mr. Chairman. And why do we have to wait for advice from the Health Council? We already know which groups the vaccine can be used for, don't we? In his letter, the Minister states that he expects to receive 500,000 vaccines this year. What does that depend on, I ask the Minister. I thought that was a promise. When is the delivery schedule really final? And can the Minister say anything about the other promising vaccine of AstraZeneca? When can we expect that? Finally, I would like to say this. We must try to start the vaccination programme as soon as possible and preferably this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u13	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u14	Madam President. On January 8th, the first shot goes in. That's in 22 days, and that's faster than we dared hope a few months ago. Many people are happy that vaccines can be placed in the first week after the Christmas holidays. Compliments for that. It is also important that we act carefully and provide clarity in the quick cooking pan we are now in, precisely because of the fragile support for vaccination. Can the cabinet indicate how this scrutiny of care is now taking place? In that light, I would also like to ask about the ethical framework that I asked for in a motion supported by the entire Chamber. That is about the difference in how people interact with people who are, and with people who have not been vaccinated. That is available before February, we heard the Minister say. That framework is not yet in place. From what point will that framework play a role? Madam President. The cabinet outlines in the letter several steps between now and 8 January: Europe, Health Council, RIVM, elaboration protocols. Can these steps also take place in parallel, or is it a relay in which one action can always take place at a time? The choice is to work towards January 8th, but also afterwards, by appointment. Why is that the choice the cabinet makes? Can it also be indicated whether other European countries are opting for this same system? I'm asking because it sounds rather cumbersome. We also see this in the ICT infrastructure, training, call protocols that need to be made now. We must prevent the administrative processes underlying the vaccines from being the limiting factor instead of the availability of them. That will undoubtedly be the intention of the Minister, but this seems to be a risk in the chosen route. I am also asking this against the backdrop of a schedule issued by the World Health Organisation, which stipulates that you will only be supplied with vaccines once the previous delivery has been used up. So if you delay now, your delay will continue. This prevents hamsters and that is good, but a slow start may affect the availability of a vaccine at a later stage. And if we follow that same schedule, according to World Health Organisation sources, the risk is high that poor countries will only really have vaccines at their disposal in 2024. That's a message I read this week. I am therefore asking another question about the availability of the vaccine for low-income or medium-income countries. Finally, Madam President, I would like to ask how priority is being given between GD tasks. Vaccinate, test, conduct source and contact research; it must all take place at the same time. If the capacity is pinching, what choices should the GGD make? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u16	Mr. Chairman. Normally, the announcement of a decision marks the end of a discussion. With Hugo de Jonge the decision is the beginning. Whether it's about the corona app, about testing, about the source and contact research or about the vaccination process, there's always a discussion behind it and experts doubt what he's proposing. We're in the worst crisis after the war. Our lives have been turned upside down. People have been working from home for months. Children are forced to stay home. Older people can't get visitors. Entrepreneurs are at the edge of the abyss. For months, we've been asking for the utmost of the care staff. Operations are being canceled. Chemotherapy cannot continue. There are even a million people with a referral to wait. Mr. Chairman. There's something that can bring enlightenment, light in the darkness, and that's vaccinate. What do we see around us? England started on 8 December. Germany will start on December 27th. Belgium will start on December 27th. Italy will also start on 27 December. France will start on 28 December. Of course, we're in a serious lockdown. Then you'd expect Minister De Jonge to get to work, but what do we see? A wait-and-see attitude? We also see this in the information campaign that went online and which the experts are already cutting off. We protect our citizens together, said the President of the European Commission, and we start on 27, 28 and 29 December. Except in the Netherlands, because there's Hugo de Jonge. Mr. Chairman. We knew in March that there would be a vaccine, sometime at the end of the year, beginning next year. Why isn't there a playbook? Why haven't ICT and call centers been put in place as the weather? Why hasn't all the logistics and technology been devised in advance? Everyone knows that you cannot build a well-functioning rural infrastructure in a few weeks. Where is this plan to help the Netherlands through this darkness? Where is the leadership that should offer perspective? Mr. Chairman. Many Dutch people want to be vaccinated as soon as possible, but not everyone. In a motion I indicated that there should be no direct or indirect vaccination obligation. Except for D66 and the VVD, that's supported. But what does it turn out to be? The RIVM comes with a vaccination certificate linked to the person's DigiD. This should be used as a monitor to record the side effects of the vaccine. If anyone has any side effects from a vaccine, it goes to the GP. Subsequently, the general practitioner can report the side effects to the RIVM himself. In our view, it is unnecessary to involve the DigiD of the person in question and it looks as if the government will gradually move towards a vaccination obligation and registration. From DENK we watch over this. We want to ensure that our citizens do not under any circumstances experience pressure to be vaccinated if they do not want to. This applies not only to the right of the Dutch citizens to freedom of movement within the national borders. No, that also applies to indirect obligations from abroad or from the public sector. There are already airlines, organisations and even countries talking about a 'corona passport'. For us this is also covered by an indirect vaccination obligation. I call on the Dutch Government to ensure that no one is obliged to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u18	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands is looking forward to the end of the corona crisis. Now that the first vaccine is almost there, there is hope and perspective for a more normal society. This also increases the impatience, and that is understandable. However, vaccination must be done carefully, safely and responsibly, because if you do not and something goes wrong, then you threaten to forfeit public confidence in the vaccine. And you can only achieve a high vaccination rate if there is also a high vaccination readiness. But the question remains as to why we cannot start faster. Can the Minister explain the difference with countries such as Germany, France and Belgium? Why do they start at the end of 2020 and we start at one and a half to two weeks later? Can the Minister outline the reason for this? Does it have to do with the fact that these countries are better off? Or do they take irresponsible risks? Or is the start they are making just symbolic in nature and extent? Or are there other reasons? In the letter, the Minister writes that the EEA will deliver the opinion on 21 December, which will follow admission to the European market on 23 December and which will deliver an urgent opinion to the Health Council on 24 December. But then there's a hole until January 4th. My question is exactly what happens between 24 December and 4 January. Can the Minister explain how these steps taken in those ten days contribute to the care and safety of vaccines? And are these considerations that we make in this respect not in other countries? Are there actually more European countries that choose the same route as the Netherlands? Or is everyone gonna sit down at the end of December? Are there more countries that do it a little later? I saw on Teletext, an hour before this debate, that the Moderna vaccine is also likely to be approved more quickly. There was a date called January 6th. This is a vaccine that I know can be stored in the refrigerator for 30 days. This makes it much less complicated in terms of distribution than the Pfizer vaccine. Does this mean that it can also be used for other target groups? When do we get the first deliveries of the Moderna vaccine? Is it going to take so long before it can be deployed or can it be done faster? Have any appointments been made with nursing homes, with general practitioners and with nursing staff, so that this can happen quickly? And then a final question, Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are a little slower than other countries to start up plans is a risk to the future? Are you at risk because you start later, that you will be queued in the back for new deliveries of vaccines?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u19	Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u20	These are all interesting questions, but does the colleague of the CDA not think that setting up call centres and testing and completing IC systems should have been done long ago? The Minister has been saying for six months that vaccines are the solution. Stop taking those drugs. A vaccine is the solution. You have ten debates and interviews he's talking about vaccines. The whole of the Netherlands, the whole of the world, has known since the summer that it has been coming for six months. That we haven't even tested the IC systems yet, that's an embarrassment!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u21	We have previously established that the Pfizer vaccine is the most complicated vaccine to roll out. That you want to look carefully at the side effects of a vaccine, for which groups it is dangerous and that you want to do it carefully, so that it does not go wrong at first, can be crucial to maintain the willingness to vaccination, as I said at the beginning. Whether the steps that have now been taken are the result of that great care, which we must not lose, or that there are other reasons for doing so, I have asked questions about this in my speech and I would like to await the answers of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u22	That's not an answer, is it? What the hell do you need for care to set up a call center? In a call center are people who can call, they have a system for that, there's an IC system for that. Those people should have been ready by now, combed with hair, in a nice center, with a phone. That should have all been arranged. And then we come as the Netherlands, when all the other countries are already in the process of testing, or saying that they are going to do it after Christmas; they have already done it all. Why didn't we take care of that? And why don't you tell the minister he should have? Setting up a call center has nothing to do with side effects of the vaccine. I thought that was supposed to be there by now. That should've been there by October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u23	I also asked the cabinet that question. It certainly has something to do with such a call center. Suppose someone calls such a call centre and says he has a chronic disease or hereditary condition and asks if the vaccine is dangerous, if he can take that vaccine, if he is at risk. If such a call center employee is then full of teeth, because he was put there, without the advice of the EEA and the Health Council working well, then vaccination will decrease. I don't think it's so illogical that you set up these call centers after you know exactly where the risks and the side effects are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u24	Why are you defending the Minister like that? I really don't get it. Then why can other countries do that? Why can the United Kingdom go ahead as from 8 December? Why do all these countries, Belgium, Italy, France and Germany say: EEA on 21 December, the European Commission on 23 December and then we start the day after? Then why can they do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u25	Mr Wilders repeats all the questions I have raised in my speech. These are questions I have, too. Only, his statement was that those call centers can go straight ahead, and I have my doubts about that. Maybe my reasoning is wrong, but I think that if you have the 23rd or the 24th clarity about the risks and the side effects, you just need to instruct those call center employees properly. Because a, then they can answer the questions of people with worries and of people who doubt about getting the vaccine properly and b, then no mistakes are made so that people at risk can still be vaccinated. Otherwise, vaccination will be a disaster. So it's just in the call centers that I think there's a logic in it. Furthermore, Mr Wilders repeatedly raises questions in his interruption which I have also asked in my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u27	Madam President. I am the tenth speaker tonight, and I note that this evening no one has put the Minister's hands on the fire by saying that he has acted hastily. In a way, that's good news. Because a lot of people were worried: is it not easy to be tempted by the desire for a cure, for a vaccine, to be careless? For a lot of people, yes, for who not? It is very important for them to be able to trust that the process has been carefully and considered. In that light, I think it is right that the word 'carefully' is also the word of this letter, which is emphasized. This care requires that we ensure a good process, that we weigh security and effectiveness fairly and then provide good information. And for the confidence-building process, it is also very important that no compulsion takes place. We have discussed this before in this Chamber and adopted motions for resolutions on it. As you know, this is an issue for the SGP. In the provision of information, the GGD and the general practitioners normally have the important role to play in having a good conversation with people. Is that sufficiently secure when people have questions about the vaccine, now that they are so busy putting this process on its feet? So is there enough room for that good conversation? And how is the information about the different vaccines shared? Earlier, for example, the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine advisory panel asked whether it was not a risk that the vaccine would be used with a technology that had not yet been produced. Well, I'm sure that was taken very seriously. But if that has started singing around, it is important that very clear scientific information is shared at such a point. It emerged that there are different vaccines. We have a lot of mouthy people who like to get into that. Can you also choose a particular vaccine? For example, one has hesitations in one, but wants to be eligible for another. Is that space in the system? I also have a question about the provision of information on the vaccines that are being administered. To whom is this responsibility now placed to an important extent? Who's gonna take on that job? Mr. Chairman. The care is on the one hand, but on the other hand, of course, everyone wants it not to be unnecessarily slow. I understand very well that the great question of why this debate was correct: why does it seem to be possible to proceed faster in other countries than in the Netherlands? I think it is important that a clear answer be given by the Minister. Why can't we start vaccination this year, as it seems possible in other countries? What are the backgrounds to that? Can he explain that further? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to comment on the other possibilities for combating the corona virus: treatments, medicines. Have the prospects in this area changed? What is the state of play? Finally, I would like to refer this to the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u29	Madam President. The minister was late with personal protective equipment such as mouth caps. He was late with tests, too late with test locations and now the Netherlands becomes the gate closer when voluntarily vaccinating. A careful and safe process is important, certainly in order to increase the level of support, says the Minister, but the operational preparation could have been done long ago. What happens to the support base when the Netherlands is always the last to start with everything? The bottle neck would be: to obtain and test on time the IT system in which vaccinations are recorded. The call center isn't in order yet. Why didn't all that happen before? I thought that was supposed to be done by now. We've been talking about vaccination for so long. We knew it was coming. We're a month later than many other countries. This can be fatal, not only for the vulnerable but also for entrepreneurs and also for our social lives. Let us stress once again that vaccination must be mainly voluntary. The operational strength of the Netherlands is not in order. Care's on its backs. This may also apply to the approach of this cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u31	Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is right that a debate has been requested on the inability of the GGD to organise the vaccination project. Whether you agree with the VWS minister's vaccination obsession or not, it remains odd that the government will succeed in the United States, Great Britain and Germany. But in the Netherlands it is not possible, not because of a lack of staff, but because the IT system is not yet finished. For a minister who has been able to call only one thing since March, namely that only a vaccine will lead us to the promised country, this is a failure of epic proportions. Minister de Jonge himself says about this, and I quote: vaccinations do not start at a week earlier, but rather at a careful and safe course. Go explain that to all those SME entrepreneurs who go bankrupt that week. Nine months this minister has had time to prepare for his holy grail, and yet he is unable to lead this project in a professional way. In the meantime, you may wonder if he is the right man at this post. But, Mr. President, is a vaccine even the solution to the corona virus? There are over 380 trillion viruses in the human body and our immune system has no problem with that. Also with COVID-19, a healthy human body has no problem. Of course there is a group of people for whom the virus can be dangerous, but that is a very small group of elderly and vulnerable, often with underlying medical suffering. The excess mortality rate in 2020 is no different than in previous years. So there's no need for panic and anxiety. According to the CBS, total mortality over the past five years has always been around 0.88%. This year, too, that is no different. Those are the facts. My question is therefore: why is the facts not being looked at at at all? But I have been wondering this for a long time now, for example in the case of the pointless oral cap duty, the arbitrary one-and-a-half meter measure and the disastrous closure of the catering and shops. Mr. Chairman. In addition, the question is whether the vaccines developed under steam and boiling water will help us against all the different mutations of COOVID-19. COVID-19 mutates incredibly fast. There are hundreds of mutations of this coronavirus already known at the moment. In Denmark they have recently discovered five more mutations. In England, a new mutation was discovered a few days ago. Can the Minister explain for which variants, i.e. for which mutations, the different vaccines are suitable? Does the Minister perhaps know whether the manufacturers are concerned about this? Mr. Chairman. The Moderna vaccine and the Pfizer vaccine focus on the messenger RNA. The Oxford vaccine, on the other hand, is a genetically modified adenovirus of a chimpanzee. The adverse reactions and the long-term effects are totally unknown. How does the Minister feel about this? Is that what he's worried about? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, it has been proven that the administration of hydroxychloroquine at an early stage of corona has good effects, but the minister dismissed it as a quack. In 2015, scientists received the Nobel Prize for Ivermectin. Research shows that this medicine has a strong antiviral effect and is very hopeful for the treatment of corona. Is the Minister aware of the promising investigations into ivermectin in relation to COOVID-19? Are we not obliged to do something with that knowledge to society? Mr. Chairman. One of the greatest violations of the integrity of our bodies is imminent. The Minister said that there would be no direct vaccination obligation, but an indirect vaccination obligation would be the same. A vaccination certificate as a pass to society is absolutely unacceptable to us. We will fight this very hard. Vaccination can, as far as we are concerned, always be voluntary. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet once again shows that it is totally out of control of the corona crisis. In addition, this outrage about vaccines and the boycott of promising medicines confirms that the Forum for Democracy has rightly tabled a motion of censure earlier. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u33	Mr. Chairman. With your permission, our group chairman has been prevented this evening, so I hope you will not disappoint me if I am standing here and not Mrs Ouwehand. Mr. Chairman. A vaccine is our best asset according to the Health Minister. From the very beginning of the corona crisis it was clear that there should be a vaccine. When exactly did no one know? Last night, at Nieuwsuur, we saw Herman van der Weide, who worked on the vaccination schedule for the Mexican flu years ago. If it had been up to him, he would have started making schematics in March. Then you start by consulting with all sectors. March! That was three-quarters of a year ago. In three-quarters of a year you can make a lot of preparations, you might think. But when the Minister of Health mentioned just over two weeks ago the date of 4 January, general practitioners were completely robbed. Last week it was announced that it is the GD's who are going to have to perform the massive operation. Last week that became known. In Germany and France, they can start vaccination by the end of the year. They've already started in the UK. In the Netherlands the operation does not come into play on 4 January, but only on 18 January, the minister wrote in his letter this evening. That raises questions. How, for example, can the Ministry still not send the Chamber a plan of action? Why isn't that playbook done yet? How did it happen that at the beginning of December a date was mentioned which simply proved not feasible? Indeed, there was still a great deal to be done with all those involved, with both the GGDs and the GPs, as well as the logistics partners. Mr. Chairman. My group cannot escape the impression that there is little direction, little direction from the Ministry. Much is left to the field and to the self-reliance of the care system, but in a crisis like this it is a huge gamble, which has not always worked out well so far. Can the Minister reflect on that again? Mr. Chairman. For the Party for Animals, care is paramount. Carefulness is beyond haste. Avoid that almost leads to accidents, as this is detrimental to confidence in the vaccine and to the support for vaccination. That's where we're getting to a very important point. We're worried about acceptance, about vaccination readiness. About a third of the care staff are in doubt about a vaccine. People are also sceptical in the rest of society, to say the least. I ask the Minister: convince people of the importance of vaccination, but do not force them. The Party for Animals is opposed to both a direct and an indirect vaccination obligation. That trust is really crucial. The whole vaccination program stands or falls with that. How does the Minister intend to gain that trust? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u35	Mr. Chairman. The vaccine is getting closer and closer. Science has done a great job, but the good news is likely to be overshadowed by doubts about whether we are ready in the Netherlands. That's strange, because we already knew in March that scientists would do everything they could to surpass themselves in speed and care. In June, the Minister reported that the first vaccines would be available about now. In September we were reassured that the preparation was in full swing. We'd be prepared for all the scenarios. That is important, because every day the country is locked is a lost day. Every day counts. Now let's get to the reality. Germany will start on December 27th. Belgium immediately after Christmas. France, Poland, Hungary and Italy begin at the end of December. Spain January 4th. The United Kingdom started on 8 December. Maybe not in large numbers, but the crux is: they've started. In the Netherlands, the first injection is only launched on 8 January. How is that possible? What are we missing? A quick look at the preparations shows that it is not a matter of science, but of logistics. The Minister writes in his letter that the GGDs have now begun to draw up a call script. Application procedures are open for the position of project leader vaccination in cities and regions where many people live: Amsterdam, Eindhoven, Arnhem, Rotterdam and Zaanstad. They're still looking for the project leader to vaccinate. How is that possible? When did the Minister order the GGDs to carry out the vaccinations? Why can't the 25 central locations of the GGD start early January? I know that Pfizer's vaccine is special, for example because it has to be stored at -70°C and delivered in large packs. But in September there were talks between the European Union and Pfizer. Did the Minister not know at that time that these vaccines should be kept at -70°C and that this would present challenges for administration? Apart from the challenges of this vaccine, there are, of course, preparations that apply to each vaccination campaign. It has just been said by a number of colleagues. One of the biggest vaccination programs the Netherlands has ever known was for the Mexican flu. The project leader recently looked back at that period at Nieuwsuur. The detailed plans for vaccination against the Mexican flu were completed months before the vaccines were available. Are these lessons and experiences applied now and if so, why is the registration system not ready? Why is the system only accessible to all Dutch people in March? Why were caregivers surprised when the Minister first mentioned the date of 4 January? Finally, Mr President. Once the vaccine is available to people working outside the healthcare sector, I will definitely have myself vaccinated. I hope the cabinet will do the same in plain sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u36	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u37	Thank you, Mr President. On 23 September, Minister De Jonge informed the Chamber about the steps the cabinet would take to manage the vaccination. This means that the cabinet was well aware of the idea of vaccination and that preparations should have started well before that. But unfortunately, the preparations have failed. To this day, in the middle of the hard lockdown, we cannot vaccinate yet, while in other countries around us it does. I ask the Minister and the Prime Minister: what should happen to the IT systems? Call centers and an IT system... Come on! Why do these problems just come up now? We've been familiar with the virus in the Netherlands for almost a year and we've known for months that a vaccine is coming. How is it that it is only now that we act so late? Mr. Chairman. What IT system are we talking about here in concrete terms? I was informed tonight by an IT expert about the fact that the RIVM started the program Renewed Praeventis at the end of 2014. The MedicalPHIT website states that the aim of the programme is to modernise and optimise the ICT infrastructure to support, three times guessing, the National Vaccination Programme. MedicalPHIT therefore represents in this program at tactical level the insertion of knowledge and the consideration of the architecture to be chosen. Six years ago! And not in order today! How is that possible? Why did the Minister bring it up again? Is this really the system at stake? Are there any other requirements for covid than for other infectious diseases? Can the Minister explain this in concrete terms? The RIVM is indeed working on a national registration system, but this is already being done from 22 November. A month! Then how can this still not be finished? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u38	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a suspension of about 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u39	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all the questions that have been asked in this debate on vaccination. I would like to stress that this is an important debate on an important issue, especially at this stage of the crisis we are in. We're in a very difficult phase on the one hand. We have an incredibly high level of contagion. We see new hospitalizations every day, with numbers rising. We saw an incredibly high number of positive results coming out of the test street today. So it's not going well. We're in lockdown, in a tighter lockdown than we've had so far. So we are in a difficult phase of the crisis. At the same time, there is hope. That hope comes from vaccines. I have stressed many times that we need a vaccine as the best asset to put this terrible crisis behind us. It is precisely for this reason that vaccination should go well. Whoever told you six months ago that we would already have a vaccine in January, Mr Dijkhoff said that he was right to say: don't get your hopes up too high; we will see that again. In fact, when I said on 1 December: in the week of 4 January we will put our first vaccination, many people said: well, it is very doubtful whether that will happen. Now it seems to be happening and now the debate is: why the first vaccination on 8 January? That is a wonderful debate. And I understand it, too. Because you see in other countries that it happens before. Then why can't we get here sooner? We need to deal with this question in detail. That is actually the key question of the debate: why not sooner? However, on the front of that debate, I would like to emphasise that a week earlier or later is not at the heart of the matter. It is not the starting date that determines whether you are protected, but it is the vaccination rate that determines whether you are protected. Therefore, a careful route, a responsible route, is the best route we can choose. Because in the end, it's not about the start, it's about when you're done. You're not finished until we've built up enough immunity and thus a sufficiently high vaccination rate. And that's not a given. Studies show varying numbers, but those surveys do not say that it is a race that has been run or that it is a race that has been won. It's a competition we're going to have to win, especially among care staff. So the vaccination rate will benefit from a careful route. That is why we want to use this careful route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u41	I saw Mr Wilders, I saw Mr Asscher. Mr Asscher, then Mr Wilders and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u42	I'd still like to invite the Minister. I understand that, when you look at group immunity, it's important when we're done. But from the perspective of the care worker, who may become ill between now and 8 January, is it relevant whether it is a week earlier or later? Just the level of infection we're dealing with right now. We've seen the numbers. The minister referred to it. Then you must, from protecting the health of those employees, that week earlier rather than a week later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u43	Yes, but I would like to emphasise that we are starting on 8 January. That's incredibly fast. I'll explain the complexity of doing it earlier. I indicated last Tuesday in the corona debate, when the EEA suddenly came up with the message that they would probably be keeping them open 29 December a week earlier with their admission advice, that I would see what that means for planning. Of course I looked at that, because I would have liked it to be possible, even though it is very soon and very early in the new year, perhaps even earlier. Of course I watched that. There are a number of reasons why this is not justified. I'd be happy to go over those reasons with you in a moment. But the essence of the debate is: when are you protected? When will we be protected from each other? That is when we have built up enough immunity and the vaccination rate is sufficiently high. Then we're actually protected with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u44	In this sense, this answer is symbolic of the whole approach to the crisis. Are you looking at the moment that we're all protected, or is it also a goal to prevent infections? In this case, it is very concrete. I have heard the Minister say it twice on television: a week earlier or later does not matter very much. He says it again here in the Chamber debate. I object to that. I think protecting care workers from this virus is a stand-alone interest. I am afraid that the attitude that does not matter much a week earlier or later, which is an incorrect observation, will pass on to those who have to carry out the vaccination. I therefore ask the Minister to remove this misunderstanding, which I hope it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u45	No, that's really wrong. I'd like to take that misunderstanding away. I think it is good if I just explain what the preparation is, on the way to that first moment and what makes it necessary to do it carefully and step by step. I will explain this in a moment, otherwise we will have a complicated debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u46	I'm also annoyed that the minister's acting like a week doesn't matter. Every day and every week matters. You'll just be that care worker who depends on staying healthy. You'll just be an older one in a nursing home. You'll just be the 70-year-old who sits at home and is sick. You're just gonna be that entrepreneur who, because we're gonna be a week or I know a lot of how much later he's gonna start, has to keep his business closed for a week longer. The people in the hospitality, or just the people at home who are sick of the lockdown. You'd better be. And the minister just says it doesn't matter that much, it's about how we end up. No, it doesn't matter. What also matters is what you promised the people. I said it at the beginning of my first term. I quote: 'If vaccines are delivered later, everything is ready' and 'even if the vaccine developers succeed in delivering as early as December, we can get right to work'. It's even on Rijksoverheid.nl, your own website. Those are the expectations you raise every time, usually with a camera, a nice headline in the newspaper or on television. People think: great, or not great, we get that app, we get a vaccine, we test faster. And it just doesn't seem like it. You need to stop promising things that you can't live up to, because this text just says that if we have the vaccine in December, we're going to test it in December. Why do you do that every time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u47	I think it is good to explain the context in which I said that, because this is a quote from November. It was in the context that I sent the vaccination strategy to the Chamber in mid-November, that we assumed and were allowed to start, that we would start with the residents of the nursing homes and that we would start with small-scale administration. That is important, because the agreement with all the implementing parties has been that we would join the flu vaccination as much as possible. That is a well-known area. Because of all the unknowns that this vaccination campaign has to deal with, it is wise to opt for known territory, also because of the trust that people need to get in the vaccination. That's why we choose the institution doctor who can prick, which is why we choose the general practitioner who can prick, close to the existing flu vaccination strategy. We wanted to administer the first vaccine to be delivered on a small scale. But the way it is delivered, distributed, in large packs, frozen, does not make small-scale administration possible. On 1 December I said: in the first week of January I hope to be able to put the first shot, if all is well. Everything is going well, so it's going to work out in the first week of January to get that first shot. If you then hear on 15 December, last Tuesday, that the EEA is moving forward for a week, it is no longer possible to change the route. Then it is no longer justified to go further forward. I will explain this in a moment in the various steps. I'm committed to sharing with you the entire crisis, all the data I know. I explained last time in the debate that with the whole vaccination strategy we are as close as possible to the order of treatment of the target groups as they should be vaccinated on the advice of the Health Council, but that a number of things can always happen that make you have to switch anyway. You still have to be agile in the execution. That has to do with a number of things. What delivery do you get? Is it suitable for the target group? The delivery condition is also important. This means that in mid-November I did discuss with the RIVM whether it was possible to actually administer this vaccine on a small scale. Long has been tried to make that possible, but repacking this vaccine, so smaller packaging, requires so many operations that it has not been chosen to do so. That was the time when we had to ask the GGD if, from the safety net function of the GGD, they would like to take the vaccination with the first vaccine centrally, so that we can administer it as meaningfully as possible, as close as possible to the strategy of not the nursing home residents, but the employees who care for the most vulnerable people. Fortunately, the G.D.D. is willing to do that. I'm glad. This has helped us incredibly to ensure that we can actually deliver the first delivery as usefully and as meaningfully as possible. That is why we have made this choice. Last Tuesday, when the message came from the EEA that she could give an admission advice a week earlier, I had intrusive discussions with the GGD and RIVM. With them, however, I have had to make the observation that it is not possible to change the planning in a meaningful and responsible way. I think it is wise to listen to the performance, again here. We are dealing with a complicated vaccination campaign. Fortunately the GGD is an insanely experienced party and fortunately there is an incredible amount of work at the GGD to ensure that this is done in a good way. However, I do not think that I can simply get into the wind of implementation advice. It is certainly the case that there have been intrusive discussions about this. I would have liked it if it had been possible to start even earlier than in the first week of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u48	My main point for the Minister is: do not promise. You can say that A, B and C have happened, I know that has happened, I do not deny that that has happened, but you said at one point: if it is delivered, it is ready, and even if it is in December, we are going to start immediately. The whole of the Netherlands, whether it's MPs or people at home, thinks: well, that's what we're gonna do. People also see that other countries do. The Belgian Health Minister said today in the Belgian Parliament: it is being brought forward, we are going to start right after Christmas. Then why can't you? You promise people something, but then you don't, for that and that reason. Then I say don't promise. If you're lucky, we're gonna do it. But again, that was not your quote. You just promised the Netherlands. And if other countries do, if the Belgians can, if the Germans can, if the Italians can, and if all other countries can, why can't we? My final question on this point. Are you prepared to do everything in your power to start these voluntary vaccinations this month, this year, at the end of December?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u49	First of all, that word 'promise', because that is what I often hear in this Chamber: do not promise. I never use the word "promise." However, I have agreed with you and with myself that is really the strategy of the cabinet to share the facts that we have. As soon as I receive a delivery schedule on the basis of which a certain starting date appears possible, that is when I share that information with your Chamber and its consequences. I have also indicated to you that these schedules will change very often. What will also change very often is the expectation of the date of delivery, but also of the size of the delivery. Really. What we cannot say in advance is whether the EEA is approving a particular vaccine. Not all vaccines will make it to the finish line. We just know that. In short, I will have to adjust that expectation more often. However, as soon as we have that information, I am committed to sharing with you immediately what that information is. That was true at the time I said on 1 December: I aim to be able to do the first vaccinations in the first week of January, in the week of 4 January, if everything is in order. Everything's fine. This appears, by the way, to be possible with a number of blows to the arm. That's fantastic, but it has nothing to do with a promise. It has to do with an expectation I've expressed, if everything's going well. Everything turns out to be uncomfortable and therefore I can live up to that expectation, with a lot of work, incredibly much work, of all those people working on it day and night. But I would never use the word "promise." I will come back to the question of why other countries do, because that really requires the explanation of why we have gone through the timeline to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u50	I think everyone's surprised how fast science has worked. Let me speak for myself: I did not expect there to be a vaccine so quickly that would also be approved. That is, after all, what this care is about. We have always said that there must be something, but it must also be independently tested by the supervisors. That it's there so fast, that's amazing. But the Chamber has constantly said that we do not know when the vaccine will come and when it will be approved. These are all variables that we do not have an answer to. I would never hold this minister responsible for that. But we did ask a number of other questions. Are the systems in order? Are there enough people? Is there any thought in scenarios? It has been said: go to sleep, it is all in order; as soon as the vaccine arrives in the Netherlands, we are ready to start inoculating. But what is the practice now? And that is why I am asking my critical questions: the vaccine may be in the Netherlands at the end of next week, but we have to wait almost four weeks before we can administer it. Then something goes wrong in the preparations this cabinet is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u51	I disagree with that conclusion. By the way, I was quite in agreement in Mr Klaver's speech. First of all, that this is indeed a triumph for science. Absolutely. The fact that you can develop so many vaccines so quickly is impressive. I remember the first time I said something in public about the expectation we were allowed to have of vaccines. Then I said I expected it in the course of 2021. Then I said I expected it in the first months of 2021. And all those times when I expressed an expectation, there was some scepticism about it. The last time, when I expressed the expectation that the first vaccination would be possible in the first week of January, in the week of January 4th, if everything were to go along with it. But all those previous times they said: a vaccine has never developed so quickly, never before. If you have it, then of course you want to give it as soon as possible. So everyone's asking if it couldn't be done sooner. Couldn't it be sooner? They have also been my questions and the questions of everyone, believe me, who is trying to bring this huge project to a successful conclusion. Couldn't it be sooner? But you also have the choice to do that responsibly. There are a number of steps I will explain in this way that are simply necessary to convert between the EEA authorisation advice and the moment that you can go streets inviting the people and registering the people in the IT system. These steps require a careful lead time. The lead time chosen is insanely fast. That has everything to do with the information we need from the EEA and the preparations that the GGD has to make to do so in a responsible way. And that has everything to do with the choice to go for the GD anyway, when it turned out that small-scale distribution of this vaccine is not possible. I would like to explain to you in a moment what steps we are taking, because I think it is important to understand where we stand. I also go into why other countries are making a different choice, because I think that is also an important question. But I'd like to tell that story, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u52	I hope that the Minister will also comment on the questions actually asked. The Minister is quite wide-ranging in the answers he is giving now, about how important it is that the vaccine... He knows how to spend a lot of time on that it is indeed there now, but the questions that have been asked are about preparing for the road here. I am surprised that I read and hear that the IT system is not ready and the registration of the number of vaccinations. I'm surprised at that, because those are things you can prepare in advance. I asked a very specific question about this. On what date was the order given to develop such a system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u53	I would like to comment on the steps that are necessary, because that would make it easier to point out. First of all, we are not expected to have any certainty next Monday, but we are expected to have the EEA's opinion on admissions. Then a few days later we have the decision of the European Commission. The EEA's authorisation advice is necessary to ask the Health Council for an opinion. That opinion will then be used in the finalisation of the Directive. That's when there's clarity, final clarity, is about how it works, about the side effects and about the medical contraindications for administration. Those medical contraindications for administration are then needed to complete the scripts necessary to provide clarity on both the puncture site and call centre staff on the medical contraindications to be shared with those who would like to register. That is an orderality that is built into the process. The IT system must then be completed. There's a dry run going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u54	Mr President, I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u55	The question has been asked why, these dependencies, and I will explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u56	I didn't ask that question. It is not customary to interrupt the Minister and I do not want to make a habit of it either...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u57	You will then have to put the question very briefly and in concrete terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u58	When did you order this IT system to be built?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u59	I explained that and I already wrote it in the letters. We've asked the G.D.D. to catch up. We have already agreed with the implementing parties before the summer that we would stay in the role distribution that also applies to the flu vaccination, but we have also always agreed with the implementing parties that the GGD has a safety net function and that we would remain manoeuvrable in the implementation. This manoeuvrability appeared to be necessary when the BioNTech/Pfizer vaccine was not handy for small-scale administration. That was the moment when we had to deviate from the main route of the strategy with a moving insight. That's what I reported to your room. The main route of the strategy was first residents of the nursing homes. Now it turned out that we first had to do the employees with the very first vaccine and also that we had to switch to large-scale administration, because small-scale administration was not possible. I believe it was in the first week of December that we had to make that choice with the GGD. We asked the GGD: could you make it happen to be ready as soon as possible? At that time there was no delivery schedule that indicated the early delivery as it is now, the early admission as it is now. After all, we were still on the date of 29 December. We've focused the entire route on the first week of January. This has also been the focus of the entire IT planning, and all the due diligence steps that are needed. Call scripts are built in to ensure that medical contraindications for administration are also properly used by professionals. Professionals should then be able to communicate carefully with those who are being vaccinated. All these steps are needed to ensure a responsible implementation of this IT system. There's a dry run on the last day of the old year. Things must then be able to be adjusted. The notification system will then be opened on 4 January. Then the invitations can start. Thus, it is possible to do the first administration at the end of the week. Those are the steps that are needed. Of course I checked with the GGD and with the RIVM this morning and yesterday to see if it really couldn't go any faster. Because of course I sympathize with what Dijkhoff says, what Jetten says and what others say: could it really not be sooner? Then you're facing a dilemma: are you going to go ahead and then some sort of symbolic administration?I'm going to come back to that in a moment or are you just following the steps that are justified in this introduction process? And I chose the latter because I think that's wise. I was also really impressed by everyone who is responsible for the execution to do it this way, because it is important to take the steps in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u60	Mr Klaver on this point and then I will go to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u61	I ask a question: when was the order given to develop this IT system? This is important, because it was indicated by this Minister in November: once the vaccine arrives in the Netherlands, we are ready. And whether you opt for small-scale extensive or large-scale or what order: you need a working IT system anyway, because registration must take place from whom this vaccine is given and certainly because it is done in two steps. That system had to be built. I have one very simple question, and I have already asked it almost four times: when was the order given to build this system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u62	You mean a date?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u63	Yes. I didn't know I had to be so specific, but I do mean the date, the moment, when this minister said: we need this, this has to be built.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u64	I don't build IT systems. It's the GGD's IT system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u65	I'm going to... Yes, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u66	This minister is responsible for the system. This is a rather crucial point, because we are talking about all the preparations that the Minister can do. The Chamber, the opposition, the coalition, we all asked the same question: have all the preparations been made? This minister is indeed responsible for the system, so he must have given an order. He also says: "On December 1st I ordered the GGD to jump in because we have to follow the other route." So when did he give the order...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u67	It doesn't work that way, Mr. Clover. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u68	... that the system needs to be built?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u69	No. When it turned out that small-scale administration was not possible, the question was asked: would the GGD please step in? This has been the subject of intensive consultations with the GGD. At the end of the day, the GGD was willing to do that, and I am incredibly grateful to the GGD for that. Subsequently, the GGD takes all the preparatory measures necessary to be ready in time, aiming at the first week of January. That was the choice we were faced with when we knew that the EEA was likely to give its opinion on admission on 29 December. And then, of course, it is up to the GGD to prepare the IT systems. What can be done about this in preparation, of course, has been done. But I also said that a number of call scripts should be built in. They have to do with the contraindications that we will only finally know when the EEA authorisation has been granted and when the Health Council has advised on this. That's the orderality of things. Then the IT system will be phased out, then it will be tested in practice. And that the GGD wants to handle this carefully makes sense, because it is the same IT system that also runs the tests on, and you don't want that IT system to be fixed. And so it is logical that good agreements have been made with the developer of CoronIT, the IT system of the GGD. But it's not my job to give an order to modify another's IT system. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u70	There.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u71	It is the work of the GGD to adapt its own IT systems. That is the role and division of labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u72	Your last question, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u73	Mr. Chairman. I find this rather shocking. I am not asking if this minister wants to work on an IT system in his spare time. He's responsible for the vaccination strategy. He sent it to the room. That's what we all asked for. I'm not asking him to build an IT system himself. No, I'm asking him when he gave the order. Now I hear he never gave that order. How could he say in November that we are ready when the vaccine appears in the Netherlands? And November 1st? Then you're too late. We would have needed this system anyway. So I'm sticking with it: if the minister doesn't give this order, who the hell is in control of the vaccination strategy in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u74	One has nothing to do with the other. In the vaccination strategy we made agreements with executive parties, if there is the GGD. There's a central registration system. That's RIVM. There is a registration system of the general practitioners; these are different systems and that is what the general practitioners are about. And there's a G.D.D.'s registration system. The GGD's registration system had to be put in place for the much earlier start than one should have taken into account in accordance with the strategy's agreement. And why? Well, because in mid-November and finally early December we came to the conclusion that small-scale administration is not going to work, so we need the GGD and the safety net function of the GGD. That is the moment when the GGD of course maps out what is needed to be ready in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u75	No, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u76	And it is indeed up to the GGD itself to adapt the IT system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u77	No, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u78	And the GGD depends on a number of dependencies. I've just outlined it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u79	But wasn't this necessary...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u80	No, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u81	But this wasn't necessary for that small-scale administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u82	No, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u83	No, not for the GD, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u84	I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u85	The GGD did not have its work to do with this small-scale administration. The GGD would then have to do its work later, at the time when all 60-minners... Sorry, Mr. President, I've really explained this to the Chamber several times. The GGDs would do their job with the 60-minners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we all hoped we wouldn't have to have such a discussion here, and we'll end up in it anyway. There have been so many requests from the Chamber for these kinds of logistical and organisational things. Is everything okay? "Yes," said the Minister, "it's all in order. The only dependence is when the vaccine is there. If the vaccine is there, we can start." I am shocked when the Minister says: 'Yes, such an ICT system, which means that we are being delayed now, is not my responsibility, because that is up to the GGD'. It should have been at least the case that the Minister had ensured in good time that things were in order at the GGD and that there was a well-functioning ICT system. We would not have had to ask these questions. But apparently he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u87	At the risk of a slight repetition of me. We tried to make the first vaccine suitable for small-scale administration until mid-November, because it would best fit the order of the target groups we wanted to vaccinate. In this case, these were in particular the residents of the nursing homes and the residents of the disability care institutions. When we were convinced that it was really not possible to make this vaccine suitable via small-scale repacks, we had to fall back on the GGD. We agreed that this would be the party to fall back on if we could not do the vaccination through the usual channels. So at that moment we went to the table with the GGD and asked: what do you need to be done as early as possible? And what was "as early as possible"? Around December 1st we could make an estimate that we wanted to do that in the first week of December. Next, the entire planning has been focused on this in IT. That also makes sense, because it requires careful adaptation of an IT system and this is already an insanely short period of time to do so. Could we have done that before? No, because the GGD didn't set the bar for the nursing home care staff before. We did not have to make that choice until the end of November, early December. Then, of course, there are a number of dependencies in completing the IT system. This has everything to do with the results of the EEA and its assessment by the Health Council. Then you know what the medical contraindications are. The GGD says to us, and thus also to you: we cannot adapt the IT system in a responsible way faster than we now indicate. I get that. I have spoken with them several times very intensively about it, because everyone understands that you want to prick as soon as possible once you have that vaccine on Dutch soil. Of course it is. But the GGD says that it just doesn't manage to adapt that IT system sooner. That has everything to do with the order of things. First you need the results of the EEA, then you need the results of the Health Council and the RIVM directive and then you process them in the scripts the call center employees need. If an employee from the care calls to make an appointment, they may ask: are you not by chance pregnant and do you happen not to have that and that condition, because the RIVM directive shows that there is a medical counter-indication for punctures. The GGD says: we just have to process that really well in the IT systems; give time for that. I think that is a perfectly logical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u88	This isn't happening! That is indeed a perfectly logical question from the GGD, but the point here is that the Minister was late again when he went to ask the GGD. The minister says, "I didn't talk to the G.D.D. until it turned out we had to deviate from the original strategy." Apparently, there wasn't some kind of plan B. On why we should deviate from that strategy, I would like to talk to the Minister later, but the Minister says that it is now. And only then did he go to the GGD and ask, "Oh, if you're gonna do that, is the ICT system in order?" Then we can come to a conclusion: then the Minister has simply been late again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u89	No, Mrs Marijnissen also knows the reason for the choice of the main strategy and the reason for the departure from the main strategy. I wrote that to the Chamber several times. Deviations from the main strategy had to be made because the first vaccine to be delivered was not suitable for small-scale administration. But of course we wanted to stay as close to the main strategy route as possible for as long as possible. On this point, there has been a progressive understanding. I have also announced in advance that this could occur if things were going on, including the incapacity for small-scale administration. That has indeed been demonstrated in this case. On this basis, we have made the choice to ask the GGD: will you help us with the first administration? The GGD has said: we are going to do that, but we are only going to do that if we can do it responsibly, carefully and safely. I understand that choice and I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u90	I understand that choice of the G.D.D.'s, too. They are fully in their right, but the minister should have come to the GGD's a long time ago to let them know that he might need them, especially given the lessons we have learned here this summer around the GGD's. With the source and contact research, we've seen the same thing. There were different systems, different regions, different ways in which the GGDs were organised. That's where we saw how hard it was. We learned lessons from that in the summer. And now we're standing here, on the eve of a crazy new peak in the number of infections, and now we hear the minister saying that he wasn't going to knock on the door to the GGDs until December about the ICT system, because he actually had a different strategy. It was only when it became clear that this strategy could not be done and that another one was needed that they started to think and he went into conversation with the GGD if all could. Then the Minister is just too late again!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u91	No, I disagree with Mrs Marijnissen. I have informed you of every step of how that has happened. We agreed with all the implementing parties at the end of the summer that we would do so in the way we would. The main choice was: who does the execution? Stay as close as possible to an existing practice, which has proven its added value, because everything is exciting and new. Please do not try anything we have never done before in the vaccination for COVID-19, because that is more complicated than you think in advance. So we stayed with the performers with whom we also had experience and who also have experience. That does the trust good, because it's nice to be vaccinated by your own GP, if you're vulnerable. It's nice to be vaccinated by your own institution doctor, if you live in an institution. So we made the choice for that route. That's the main route. We also agreed at the time that the GGD would be given a safety net role. That's been agreed with the G.D.D. around the summer, so that's not new. That we had to call on the GGD for that safety net roller, which was new, from mid-November to the first week of December, because we tried to stay as close as possible to that main route. I explained that repacking just didn't go and so we had to appeal to the GGD. Fortunately, the GGD has been willing to do so, has worked day and night and still works day and night. There's no Christmas, they don't have Christmas days, they just work through, to make sure it's ready, and I'm incredibly grateful to them for that. What they are asking us to do, what they are asking me to do, is to stand up and make it possible to do this in a careful, safe and responsible way, and that is what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u92	I hear the Minister talking about adapting an ICT system. I also hear him say: we have a new ICT system. What exactly is the name of the old system and of the new system? What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u93	We're talking about CoronIT from the GGD, so it's a completely different IT system from what you mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u94	But why hasn't the old IT system, Praeventis, been used in which the National Vaccination Programme is included?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u95	No, that's an RIVM IT system. We're going into very deep execution right now, Mr. President. The system you mention is the RIVM IT system. The IT system of the GGD specifically for corona is CoronIT. It's used for testing and tracing, and now it's used for vaccination. That was the easiest and fastest to adapt, but that does listen closely, because if that system doesn't work properly because of an untested change, then the whole logistics is flattened from testing, at least potentially, which is why good, careful test steps are built in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u96	Can the Minister explain why the RIVM system was unsuitable for a large-scale vaccination programme like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u97	It is not the system used by the GGD to schedule appointments and CoronIT does, so CoronIT comes closest to the functionality you need for this application.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u98	RIVM already had a big system. That had been in use for years for large-scale national vaccinations. It also records who has received a vaccination and who has not, which exactly, and what allergies there are and what the side effects were. That's already a system that exists. There was also a BIT report published in 2019, because RIVM said it wanted to replace it. At that time, BIT found that RIVM has insufficient knowledge to organise another ICT project of this scale. It was advised to bring that knowledge into the house. And now the Minister says he put that aside. After that report came out, Secretary of State Blokhuis stated in a letter to the Chamber that he took that advice and that the system was not changed or replaced, but was invested in improving the system. And now I hear the Minister say: this is about the GGD, that's not the RIVM, so we're going to build a whole new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u99	Praeventis is a registry. This is about a login system that needs to be developed. So it's just another application. Praeventis is a registry. That's just another kind of IT system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u100	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten, and then I will go to Mr Azarkan, Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u101	I would really appreciate it if the Minister, in his letter of next week, described very precisely why this could not be linked to a registration system, why it should take so long and why there is no use of the knowledge that is already there, of the system that RIVM has for large-scale vaccinations. I would very much like the Minister to give a very precise answer to this in his letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u102	Yes. I will go into more detail, because I think it is important for you to see that too. The shortest version of that answer is: it is a registry and it is not suitable for the application you want now, namely login.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u103	The Minister will come back to that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u104	I'll get back to you on that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u105	It's getting to me. The Minister says: when I indicated in August that I expected the virus in the first month or in the first months of 2021, that's an expectation...................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u106	Well, the vaccine. We already had the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u107	Sorry, the vaccine. Excuse me. Sharp! At that time, the Minister had put in place a strategy to organise it. When he found out too late sometime in December that this was not going to work, he said: now I'm going to talk to the GGD. He said: we need adjustments, and if you want them very quickly, it will take a little longer than you ask. My question to the Minister is whether the strategy of small-scale vaccination, without the GMD, could have been in all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u108	Then, of course, which vaccine is the first to be ready depends. In this case, in this vaccination campaign, that is more complex than usual, because you always have to take into account some changes that may occur. The first is the admission by the EEA. It teaches you who it is suitable for and who it isn't. If the target group that you want to vaccinate next consists, for example, of older people and the EEA authorisation shows that the vaccine is not suitable for them, then the whole party will not go on. So, right after the EEA admission, you have to take a turn for your strategy. The second concerns the volume of delivery. Well, of course we have seen that; we have had that debate before. Nor can a supplier promise exactly when what comes and in what quantities. At least, that changes about a day or a week. So that's what you always have to relate to the moment you get that information. I have agreed with you: you will hear from me when something changes and what the consequences are. In addition, you simply have the delivery conditions, so the size and the way you can allocate the batches. In this case, delivery was so large that it would result in the waste, the spill-off, being very high, so that we had to make that choice. We were hoping to solve that through repacks, but it just didn't work out. That is simply too complex and it would also be too time-consuming. That is why, in the end, we had to choose something that we did not initially want, namely to deviate from the main route. At the same time, we have always said that it may be necessary to deviate from the main route. I think it's fantastic that the GGD was ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u109	We're in the biggest crisis after the war. That means this minister says, "I bet on one horse."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u110	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u111	That horse that had to and would make it to the finish line. In my view, then, there was evidence that this would not be done with the strategy that had been devised. Well, then it makes sense, as a minister, to say, work out a variant. Because the chance that we're going to vaccinate large-scale without the cooperation of the GGD isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u112	First of all, it's about which vaccine would come first. In addition, it would be about delivery conditions. More and more information was made available on this subject, but we could only know about the complexity during November. And that does make you need to switch. It's not like this wasn't foreseen in advance. It is precisely for that reason that we had agreed with the GGD: know that we would like to call on you as a safety net in case the main route turns out not to be possible. Then we need the GGD as a safety net. And that's what the G.D.D.'s happily agreed to. We wanted to stick to the main route for as long as possible, but when that was not possible, we did indeed opt for the GDD. And the GGD liked to do so under the condition that we would take into account everything necessary for a responsible execution. And I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u113	But why wasn't the question asked to the GGD in October, as a backup for all I care? Again, we are facing a very serious crisis, which is costing people their lives, bringing entrepreneurs to the brink of collapse. Why was there waiting until December to say to the GGD: are you going to work out a variant in the way you like? That means that we ourselves are three weeks behind on countries around us. At what point did this minister say to the GGD: are you working on a variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u114	No, that's not what happened. I've really explained to you 33 times how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u115	Yes, with Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u116	I don't think I have much to add to that. Still zooming out. It really is fantastic that we can vaccinate in the first week of January. When I said on 1 December that it would happen in the first week of January, you thought: well, see first, then believe. Well, it seems like we're really gonna be able to do that right now. That's fantastic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u117	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u118	It's not what I thought. I didn't ask you, Mr. De Jonge, what did I think when you said on 1 December that we were going to vaccinate on 4 January? I am asking whether this minister is in charge and whether he has worked with variants and strategies instead of saying now: 'I found out too late that the strategy I had devised, whereby we would be small-scale vaccination, by the standard route, just did not go'. Then he says, "I found out too late, and when I asked the GGD, the GGD said, "Wait a minute, we have some systems to build and some things to organize." The Germans do it differently. They just have vacant congress centers and stadiums. They have a number of barracks. They're turning that in. That's how it works. The question of mine is still: is there a variant in which vaccination can be carried out without the cooperation of the GGD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u119	I think that's what I'm gonna have to do. I have also seen Mr Dijkhoff threatening for some time, because those were the questions he asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u120	You'll get back to me in a moment. I shall go first to Mr Dijkhoff, then to Mr Jetten, and then I will really give the Minister every opportunity to answer. Many questions have been asked in the first term, and I see that the Minister has spoken for more than one minute and has had almost three quarters of interruptions. I'm not saying that to scare you off, Mr. Dijkhoff, but it's a general remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u121	Feel especially encouraged!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u122	I don't have the impression I'm the Interrupt King of the Chamber. Anyway, I'm not gonna ask any questions about what's coming. I have heard it all and I actually hear two different explanations. I just want to see if we can get a little more clarity on that. I hear on the one hand that the GGD focused on a later phase, another target group, but the minister had asked them: be our safety net, from the summer onwards. A safety net must be there if you have to fall off your first plan. So you don't have to start buttoning yet. I assume, therefore, that they have already begun to prepare themselves. Of course, that's different from what you know: we need to be there as soon as the first virus arrives. Perhaps that is a different work programme than if you had to stand there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u123	You said "virus," but you meant "vaccine."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u124	Oh, vaccine. The Heerma virus is highly contagious! We don't have a vaccine for that yet. You're also close to him, Mr. Wilders, so I'd like to see how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u125	Mr Wilders has now built up a certain group immunity against coalitions, hasn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u126	Yeah, but if that's her side effect, I'm gonna think about it. But that's one thing. They knew they might have been dealt with early. Then you expect them to prepare. Then the discussion is: has that been done then? On the other hand, I hear the Minister say: the reason they cannot start immediately is that the system itself is ready but still needs to be filled with information that is not yet available. Of course that's another reason, because if there's something else in a script you don't know, it doesn't matter if you started earlier or later. Then it's just done as far as it's ready and there's just something else we don't know. This makes the previous discussion less relevant. So did I get that last one right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u127	Oh, yeah. That's the main reason. You need that script information first to build the IT system further, then test it responsibly and then use it in the training of employees who have to work with that system, both the pickers and the call center staff. So that is indeed the order of things. The answer to the question of whether more could have been done and done if one had started a week, two weeks or three weeks earlier, is: you would not have been out of order. You would have always had that order in the finalisation of the system, but also in the training and testing of the use in practice. Perhaps there would have been a little more ready, but that would not have been a big deal in time savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u128	No, not very much, but would that have had an impact on...? We are also talking about not a lot of time: at the end of December, where other countries show off that they might make it, and 8 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u129	I'm afraid to say that. You're actually saying this. Imagine if you hadn't come to the conclusion in the period from mid-November to the first week of December that small-scale distribution really wouldn't work. Imagine if you'd found out a week or two earlier. By the way, you should have known all the specs of the BiONtech/Pfizer vaccine. I do not know exactly if this could have happened before in time, but it seems not, because we are on top of it. As soon as new information is available, we will see what its implication is for the implementation practice. But if you had done that a week earlier, would you have finished a day earlier? I'm afraid to say that with that hardness at the moment. I know that we have finally reached the beginning of December, but there have, of course, already been discussions with the GGD about the safety net function. That's when people got to work. One has simply started with everything that could already be completed in the IT system, but there is an orderality in the knowledge you get based on the EEA review and then on the assessment by the Health Council. The medical contraindications then determine the scripts. The scripts must then be built in and then tested in practice. It is then used for the training of employees. You can't escape that order. What could be switched in parallel is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u130	I think that the question people have is not so much what would have happened if we had previously known that it was in a different packaging and that we should deviate from the previous plan. If you say already in the summer, as the minister says, that this is a safety net function, you might have previously been on the fence and not just at the moment you know you need it, you could start preparing yourself for the eventuality that that safety net would be used, but well, that makes the answer or it would have been sooner, no different. The second part of the idea is the following. I understand that everything in that system has to be made, that those scripts have to be made, that you have to ask those questions, because you don't have to give someone a vaccine if you have any questions about them or if there's a contra-indication. But, of course, there are also people, you know that in advance, who in no way have a contra-indication. Most people are generally not pregnant; half of the population are never pregnant. The same goes for the other contraindications. So you could also say: okay, we can't start the system until later, but maybe there are already people who we know in advance that they have zero contra-indication. Maybe we already know something from the British experience. So let's start, not with the system, but in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u131	I've considered that. And that touches on the questions that Dijkhoff asked in his first term. Maybe it's good to answer it in a good way. When I was in the debate with you on Tuesday, I received the message from the EEA: not 29 December, which was the basis for choosing the first week of January, but already next Monday, so 21 December, perhaps. That was the message last Tuesday. That, of course, was the reason for Wednesday. What day is it today? Thursday, right? So yesterday twice and this morning again with both the RIVM and the GGD to go to the table. Because how beautiful would it be if it could be sooner? This morning, the announcement by the President of the Commission came on this subject, which was, moreover, rather abruptly said: Europe is going to choose one moment of vaccination. It had some symbolism in it. Then there are countries... Germany is really further, but there are a lot of countries that say: yes hello, we are not ready for that at all. But hearing what Ursula von der Leyen said, I think: then we choose a symbolic start. Of course, I also had this conversation: couldn't there be added value in such a symbolic start? In the end, I have been convinced that it is not wise to do so, because that undermines the careful route you are using. The experience of the GGD, and even of all the implementing parties, especially RIVM, with vaccination campaigns, is that trust is your most important asset to ensure that the vaccination rate is as high as possible. The second is that it also undermines the order of the target groups. Why is that? Because the GGD has said: we are not very symbolic, we want to do it very carefully, we are really not going to start until we get this right, and that really isn't going to happen until 8 January. So if you wanted to make a symbolic start, you would have to go to another performer. Assuming that that would be a hospital, let us choose a purely theoretical example, could they do that? Let us assume that the answer to that question is yes. So for the sake of symbolism, for the sake of Mrs Von der Leyen you would not choose to really seriously deviate from your strategy. Then you would also choose to deviate from the careful steps you want to take before you start. You would also deviate from the first target group you want to vaccinate, because then you won't be able to reach the nursing home employees, but you'll find yourself with others. And that's for symbolism. Is that worth it? I have had that conversation with our executive parties and they all say, based on the experience they have: "Don't do that, it really isn't wise. "Don't do that, 'cause yeah, you've got that symbolism, but then what? Then you just once rushed through that one batch to say disrespectfully, and then what? Then you still have to wait for the next few weeks. So don't do it; don't choose that symbolism." I've actually gotten convinced by that, but I admit it's a choice you make. It's a dilemma you have. I've gotten convinced not to. Then I'll come back to my first sentence: in the end it's not about the exact starting date. I understand the symbolism and of course I like it too. But the level of vaccination is going to help us eventually. It's gonna protect us eventually. That's why we made the trade-off the way we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u132	Since when does the Minister know that the Pfizer vaccine should be given at -70°C to the parties actually carrying out the vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u133	I think... I'm not gonna give you a date. I'm not gonna guess. "As soon as others knew." Let me answer it this way. We just get that execution information directly from the manufacturer. The contact at RIVM gets that from Pfizer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u134	I'm guessing that was in July, because Pfizer started experimenting with the vaccine in July on 36,000 people worldwide. At that time, several international media have already indicated that the distribution of the Pfizer vaccine will be very complicated, because it has to be transported and stored at -70°C. And so: countries, world, be prepared, because if you want to use the Pfizer vaccine, you're gonna have to have the logistics for -70°C in order. What amazes me now in this debate is that the Minister says: plan A was vaccinate residents of nursing homes. That is a strategy that I also supported, because that is the most vulnerable group. You want to protect them first. But it's also a strategy the wax was linked to vaccines that can be stored at relatively normal temperatures and which you can also give to a general practitioner. She can actually administer that doctor herself. Since July, when Pfizer started experimenting, has a strategy been developed: suggest that Pfizer is delivered to the Netherlands, how are we going to roll out that -70°C in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u135	Yeah, sure. Of course, RIVM's logistics supplier has been switched off very early and they have been provided with sufficient freezing capacity for these vaccines. Then, with another supplier, sufficient backup capacity was provided and with another supplier to back up the backup. So, of course, there's a lot of use on the freezing capacity. That's not the big deal here either. It's not so much about the -70°C. It is about the -70°C in combination with a huge batch, namely a batch of 975 doses. Outside the superfreezer, it lasts four days. You have one day to thaw and do the logistics and then you have four days of shelf life in which to stick. That's the complexity of this vaccine. It's not so much the freezer, because we did know that much earlier. Of course, it was just public information. As I said, we have the supplier's direct information. In particular, it was all those other requirements that prevented small-scale distribution. We have strongly insisted on BioNTech/Pfizer, and are now in consultation with them to see if they could also deliver in smaller packaging. That makes it much more useful. They are prepared to do so, but it is unlikely that this will happen at the next delivery. But perhaps, we hope, with a later delivery. Then you could also use BioNTech more small-scale. In addition, there has been a number of other vaccines that have also been in the lead to be the first. The vaccine of Oxford and AstraZeneca was actually in the lead to be the winner of this race. It's not a competition, but of course it is secretly. They were actually overtaken by BioNTech/Pfizer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u136	So we knew in July that BioNTech/Pfizer's vaccine had to be stored at -70°C. The European Union started talks with BioNTech/Pfizer on delivery to European Union Member States in September. Has it been considered at that time to draw up a plan B with the GGD from that moment on? For example, if BioNTech/Pfizer comes first with a vaccine, be prepared to spread the vaccine properly throughout the Netherlands. We may need you to be in the lead and not the general practitioners, who can work in nursing care, because it's just complicated with that -70°C.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u137	The complexity isn't just because of -70°C. The complexity is due to the -70°C in combination with the large size of the batches and in combination with the complexity of repacking them. There has been an attempt to stay as close to the main strategy as possible. It has been tried to reduce those larger batches through repacks, given the fact of the lack of shelf life and given the fact of the size of the batches that you can't just use in small-scale institutions, because of the knowledge that you have to put two stitches in a row with a period of three weeks in between. In that logistical puzzle it turned out that by the end of November this was really impossible and RIVM advised me to take this step, based on moving insight, knowing that this requires a lot of work from the GGD in a very short period of time. This is especially so, because for a long time it has been tried to make it workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u138	Finally, Mr President. I understand this. I fully trust that everyone at the Ministry, at the GGD and at the RIVM is hard at work to get it done now. But I do feel that the cabinet has chosen a main strategy and has only started to develop that main strategy and have started to set up logistics. While several vaccines are being developed, each with its own conditions and peculiarities. We've just ignored that fact, because we're working on route A and we're not going to look at routes B, C and D until they turn out to be necessary. Perhaps the Minister could clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u139	That's not exactly a good representation of things. For the target group strategy we were advised by the Health Council on 19 November and on 20 November the government decided: this is the main route. Whether that main route can also be walked depends on a number of things: the size of the delivery, the effectiveness, the target group you want to vaccinate and the delivery conditions. Those are the most important puzzle pieces you have to work with. Each time you get a puzzle piece handed to you so you can put a puzzle piece back on your own. The multitude of variables does not make it possible to work out one, two or three strategies. The multitude of variables means that you have a main strategy and then need to be very agile to ensure that you can always switch to finding things. We have done this here in the knowledge that we actually wanted something else, which would take a lot of work in the short term, but also with the calculation that the EEA would come up with the admission advice on the 29th and we could indeed make this switch exactly. When the EEA said on Tuesday: it will not be the 29th, but still the 21st, I can't quite escape the impression that after pressure from some Member States in the European Union, it was no longer possible to deviate from the route on the way to the first week of January, which is fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u140	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u141	A number of questions have been asked about other countries. I think I'll respond to that in general, because it would assume a lot of knowledge to get into the choices of someone else exactly. I know that Germany has deliberately chosen the strategy it has chosen. Germany does not have that infrastructure as we do with the flu vaccination, so it had to provide a separate infrastructure for this vaccination. That is why Germany has chosen this strategy. Germany has undoubtedly done a fantastic job, as Germany does several things fantastic. Many other countries say 'we are going in that last week' and do so in particular at the request of today's European Commission and say that this is symbolic. We just had that debate. You could make that choice, but in the end, I think it's a very understandable question, considering everything. I have, of course, had it myself, and we have had intrusive discussions about it. Considering everything, I follow the advice of our performers, who say: don't go there. By the way, the speed of the start is not exactly the same as the speed of actually building immunity in the population. That's ultimately key to protecting people. That's what you need for that. Those were the planning questions. In addition, a series of other questions have been asked that I have now come to. I have to browse, because the interruptions have already allowed me to answer a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u142	I have that impression, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u143	Yeah, you already had that impression. Mr Heerma spoke about the vaccine of Moderna.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u144	I see Mr. Klaver. Very briefly, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u145	On 20 November the vaccination strategy went to the Lower House. We've talked extensively about the computer system the GGD needs to work on. It was said that RIVM is working on a system for calling up target groups and registering COOVID-19 vaccination. This has led my group to suspect that we are working on a single central system, in which registration is made. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u146	That's done on the RIVM side in the base. A functionality will be added to this to allow me to log in to the Chamber via DigiD myself later on. But in the base, that recording system is ready. You're gonna have to go through data from other recording systems. There is another discussion with the general practitioners about the conditions under which this can be done in a responsible manner. The basic registration on the side of the RIVM is done in the base.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u147	But there's no operating system yet. When is this expected to be operational?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u148	Timely, timely for take-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u149	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u150	I don't know about the answer, but it's only short-lived. The whole debate we have had so far is about the question: are we ready in time? The Minister's answers show that this is not the case. In cases that should have been completed, such as such a registration system, you can say that it is done on the RIVM side, but it seems that integration with all those implementing parties is not regulated. That worries me. The minister says it'll be ready in time before we start vaccination. What does that mean? Different target groups are mentioned. Does that mean that the G.D.D.s are connected to it, the G.P.s, all the executives? I would like to know from the Minister: when will that be ready? I have no confidence that this will be done in good time and that everything will be right. I'd really like to have an insight into what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u151	It will be ready on the RIVM side in time. There are indeed a number of further discussions in the link, in particular on the continuation of data from general practitioners in this case in the direction of RIVM and on how to use informed consent. This is so deep in the technique that I propose that I inform Mr Klaver about this in the next letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u152	You also made this commitment in response to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's questions about ICT systems. If the technique is discussed extensively here, it is useful to do so first in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u153	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u154	To be honest, this is what I've been hearing since March. When it comes to technology, it has to be written and comes back at another time. Every time it comes to testing and preparing for it, and now about vaccination, it turns out it's not ready. The Minister says on 12 November: once the vaccine is ready, we are ready to inoculate. On 20 November, we will receive a letter from the Minister stating that this system is being worked on; it is based on an existing system and will be ready in time. And now we hear on December 17: on the side of the RIVM it is, but the system is not working yet. On what basis should I have the confidence that the technicalities and the details will work out in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u155	I have just given you the answer a number of times, namely that the base is ready and ready in time, and that there are still a number of issues surrounding the registration. I've briefed the Chamber on that several times. I'll update on it in the next briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u156	Okay, yeah. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u157	Just a few more moments about the registration program and the IT system. I would very much like the Minister to include a very specific timetable in the letter, how it all came to where we are now with the system. I want us, as a Chamber, to be able to see very clearly where we come from, on the basis of which we have taken the decisions and on which we are now where we are. Then I have a supplementary question. The GGD director, Sjaak de Gouw, is currently with Op1. He says something very remarkable there, and I would like to say this to the Minister. He says: we have a very long tradition of vaccination, and we do so through a certain procedure that we are currently following; on 24 December the package leaflet will come and we will know which target groups we can invite first. What's the deal with that, exactly? Those target groups have been known for a long time, haven't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u158	Maybe we should talk about the shape first. I don't know if it's helpful to recite Sjaak the Shire. That is generally helpful, I must say, but I do not know in what context he has said this. I don't know the quote. I don't know what question it was an answer to. If I am going to respond to a recital by Sjaak de Gouw, it seems to me to be a very wonderful debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u159	Yes, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u160	Then I'll just ask the question. I hear the Minister saying that we are now on our way to a new registration system. That takes time, because it all needs to be re-recorded and tested. That's why we can't start right away. Isn't it about the target groups? Apparently there is also uncertainty about this and the package leaflet still needs to show which target groups we can start to vaccinate first. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u161	There's really 33 things going on here. Now I understand what Sjaak the Shire has said about it. You first need the review of the EEA in order to be able to determine the exact audience suitability. That certainly applies to the advice of the Health Council. EMA, Health Council, guideline: that's what professionals need to get to work. That is, especially since the first target group is the group of healthcare professionals, incredibly important to be able to work without pressure. That has to do with trust. Healthcare professionals will look extremely closely at whether it is right and whether there is a turn too short. That's the order of things. So that's necessary, before you can get to work at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u162	Then I suggest you move on, because I think you've got quite a bit left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u163	Then there's the Moderna vaccine. Mr Heerma says that this is also being approved more quickly. I also saw that message. I also saw that the EEA scheduled its meeting on 6 January to discuss Moderna's approval dossier. Depending on that assessment, a number of days later the European Commission's authorisation decision will follow. Then the weather depends on the delivery. The last delivery schedule is Q1, not specified Q1 for Moderna. I hope it will be as soon as possible after admission, but at the moment I cannot be sure about that. As soon as I know more about it, I will, of course, let you know. This means that you can vaccinate the other half of the first group, namely nursing homes and residents in disability care institutions. That would be the vaccine that we consider appropriate, if deemed appropriate by EEA and the Health Council. Can the Cabinet indicate how careful checks are carried out in its work? That is what Mr Segers is asking. Carefulness is a core concept. Vaccines are only approved if the data on the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine are sufficiently solid and complete after the phase 3 study, the clinical trial. Only then can it be determined whether the efficacy of the vaccine outweighs the risks. I informed you in my letter today about the care taken in the further preparations. The information from EEA, CBG and Health Council on possible adverse reactions and contraindications, and specific medical situations in which the vaccine is not recommended, should be incorporated into the RIVM, IT systems and call script guidelines. Then all systems of the GGD are tested first. On 24 December, RIVM will publish the draft vaccination directive for professionals. The RIVM Directive includes, inter alia, the efficacy of the vaccine, the potential for soft side effects and also whether there are contraindications for administration. In this period, the GDPDs are working in parallel with all the steps they have to take. Those are the careful steps that need to be taken now. Mr Segers asked whether these steps could also be parallel. Of course, that's been tried. What can be done in parallel is done in parallel. What has to be in order, unfortunately, has to be in order. Mr Van der Staaij asks where the responsibility for information on vaccines lies. That responsibility lies with the producer. The producer is responsible for supplying all the research results of the vaccines. These are necessary for the assessment by the EEA. Based on the research results, the EEA will deliver an opinion on the efficacy, quality and safety of vaccines. That information shall also be available on the CBG's website as soon as it is known. RIVM uses this information to develop guidelines for the administration of vaccines. In the end, this is happening under my responsibility. The information is published on the site of the CBG, independent of course, and on the site of the RIVM, independent of course. Can the Minister explain which mutations the vaccines are suitable for? The suitability assessment shall be carried out by the EEA and subsequently by the CBG and the Health Council. As far as my information is concerned, the vaccines are suitable for mutations as long as they are not in the part of the virus contained in the vaccine. That's usually about the spike protein or the genetic code of this. Asked about the side effects of the Oxford vaccine and how I feel about that. It is of course up to the EEA and then to the CBG and the Health Council to assess that. I do not know if it is wise to go down this road, because this goes incredibly deep into the substantive assessment. This is not about politics. It is wonderful that we should have this done independently by medical experts and that politics has nothing to say about it. We should keep that, above all. By the Party for Animals, but also by the SP has been hinted whether I wouldn't want much more central control. I would like to explain that the implementation of the vaccination campaign is conducted under the direction of the RIVM, which does all vaccination campaigns in the Netherlands. The most experienced party does so in our order. Of course, it runs the central direction. Then the execution is decentralised, because that is actually the closest to home. We have chosen this very deliberately. It's been a long time. That reconnaissance was there before the summer. We asked RIVM to do that reconnaissance before the vaccination was carried out. On the contrary, it was very consciously chosen for the decentralised implementation, which is also used in the group vaccination. It is really applauded by the people who know it, precisely because of the trust that is built up with it. Especially with such a rapid development of vaccination, with everything that is still unknown and with all the new information that goes around on all public sources of information that people can consult, one beacon of trust is incredibly important: who will prick? It is very important to join the practitioners who do this: the general practitioners for the people who are sick, vulnerable or older, the institutional doctors for the people who live in institutions, etc. You know the choices we have made in that regard. I think this is an important choice for confidence, which ultimately leads to a higher vaccination rate. That's the real game we have to play. That's not when the exact starting date is, but how high the vaccination rate becomes. That's the real game. Is it true that the WTO directives prohibit us from keeping vaccines on the shelf and that our deliveries will be endangered if we do not start vaccination now? I think that is what Mr Asscher and Mr Segers and Mr Heerma were asking for. The answer is, no, that's not right. The WHO has set out guidelines to prevent countries from buying for themselves massively, with the result that other countries do not have access. But that's not the situation we're in right now. We can start vaccination very quickly after delivery, really very fast, but just a little less fast than some other countries. That's the situation. Then Mr Asscher asks: those 3 locations and a week later 25, can't that be done faster? I don't really know if you asked, Mr. Asscher. You could have just asked. I'm sure at least someone else asked me to. We talked very well about that with the G.D.D. The GGD says, "Let's do three locations first." If you see any unevenness in the work process that you want to clean away, then you can fix those errors before you let all 25 regions make those same mistakes. I think that's wise. What we're doing de facto now is starting on the 8th in one or more locations. At least the first shots will be made. At least at three locations we start on the 11th. And at least at those 25 locations, we'll start the week after that. That is the planning that now seems most feasible. I think it's wise to hold onto that. In any case, they really want to know what they're doing, and I get that first at a number of locations that go through the whole work process, so that they can take out any errors before they start with a next location. Then there is the ethical framework of the Health Council. When is that going to play a role and what does that advice look like? As promised, I will ask the Committee on Ethics and Law of the Health Council to advise on the ethical framework. We will receive the ethical framework of the Health Council by 1 February at the latest. The advice of the Health Council will provide us with grabs, as you have mentioned, in the dilemmas that arise as soon as some of the people do, and some of the people have not been vaccinated. We have discussed this before in the Chamber. Is the information provided secure enough if people have questions about the vaccine? Is there enough room for the conversation? Yeah, the answer is, of course. There is a need for very good public information, which also allows for the conversation about people's concerns. Yes, I am happy to enter into the dialogue on this subject, and I have also informed you of this in the vaccination strategy. On coronavaccination.nl all objective information is given. That information is also used to answer the questions that come in through the call centre. Medical and personal questions cannot, of course, be answered there. They need to be answered by their own caregiver. That makes sense, too. More generally, we provide support from the RIVM and from the Ministry of VWS with all kinds of communication tools to start the conversation about vaccination. Of course, we also have a very intensive information campaign. How information on different vaccines is shared, asks Mr Van der Staaij. I have just given you some examples of this. In addition, specific information for vulnerable people related to vaccination is shared through the website of Vilans, Life in Corona Time. Questions that live with this target group are identified and answered as much as possible on the basis of the validated information. Is a vaccine at all the solution, Mr Van Haga asks, and then to say that it all has to be much faster. But is a vaccine the solution at all? I think it's our best asset to get out of this crisis. Yeah, I'm sure I do, and I've believed that for a long time. I hope it will be true, and I am indeed convinced of that. Mr. Chairman. I think that I have really answered all the questions, but also all the questions. If that's not the case, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u164	Mr Klaver and then Mr Asscher and then Mr Dijkhoff, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u165	I'll come back to the computer systems. I do not think it is enough to say: we shall return to that in a letter. The minister says, on the side of the RIVM, the system is ready. The basis is in order, but now there must be integration with the implementing parties. In any case, these are the GGD, the GPs, the health services and the institution doctor, if I understand correctly. Does that mean that besides the system that was mentioned in the letter of 20 November, which RIVM is building, four other systems have to run and that they all have to be brought together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u166	Well, eventually, of course, we're working on a central register. This is important, because it is possible to monitor security properly through that central register. If there's a batch that's unsafe, you can quickly track down who got it and keep an eye on the vaccination rate. That central register is therefore very important. But some other systems should be able to talk to that central registry. The discussion is not so much about its technique as about the conditions under which it is shared. That is what the debate is about. If it is really all about IT technology, the question of the Clover, I would really like to ask you to give me the opportunity to explain it in writing. Let yourself also be informed in a next technical briefing on the IT side in particular. I think that is a very good thing to do, because it really is such a implementation issue. But the real discussion is not so much about the technique, but about the opt-in, how informed consent is built into the system and how data is shared between the decentralised operators and the central register.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u167	Today, an important report has been presented, of an investigation by the Chamber, and if I think we can learn one lesson from that, it is that implementation matters. The Minister should not refer to a technical briefing, which I look forward to discussing further. This minister is responsible for whether it will work out well in implementation. I am also asking a political question about this. There is a technique behind this, but I have a political question about it and the Minister has to answer it. The basic infrastructure of the RIVM is ready. There must be integration with four other systems. How's that going? That is what I want to hear in this debate. How far is integration with the GGDs? How far is integration with the general practitioners? How far is integration with the health professionals and with the institutional doctors? How's that going? The Minister must know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u168	Sure. It is not so much a question of integrating systems but of linking systems to enable data sharing. What I'm telling you is that it's not so much the technical side. It concerns in particular a substantive dispute, under which conditions data can be shared. That's one. Two is that you, I think, rightly refer to that important report presented today. I do not think we do justice to all that grief by taking one element out of it, but if there is one element that does indeed touch the dispute we have here, it is: take the performance seriously and listen carefully to the performance, also in the speed with which you would like to take the steps. That is exactly what we are doing here: very intensively in contact with the implementation, very intensively and intensely convey the political desire to go as quickly as possible, but also have an eye and ear for the implementation that says 'ho, it must be careful, it must be step by step and it must be safe'. Because that is ultimately a much better game to play if you want to gain confidence to make the vaccination rate as high as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u169	This is an answer to a question I didn't ask and a defence against an attack I didn't make. For the record, for all the people who work on this: I want us not to go any faster than is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u170	Okay. It's good to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u171	I don't want to go where we are right now, trying to bring this two, three days forward. That's not the whole point. What I ask of the Minister is what is going on with the implementation of a crucial IT system. And then I don't want a general explanation. I just want an answer to my question. I ask: what is the status, when is the integration of or the link between RIVM's systems? That's the question I'm asking. I don't want a whole lecture on that. I want an answer to that question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u172	I have given you the brief answer to that question a number of times, and that is that the central register is the basis and that it will be ready for application in time as soon as necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u173	It will be a repeat of the same question and the same answer. I think at some point it's up to the Chamber if you want something with that. The Minister also said that he would come back in writing on these systems in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u174	I understand that, but I do not think it is enough for this debate. This debate is specifically about the vaccination strategy and its implementation and roll-out. We're talking about four different cases. The GGD is completely different from the GGDs. The workers are completely different from the institutional doctors. And then I get an answer to one hope: "It'll be done in time." No, I just want to get an update in this debate. How's it going in every organization? What's the situation there, exactly? Where exactly is the bottleneck? And when is it expected to be ready? That answer, Mr. Chairman, I just want to have tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u175	I have already given the answer three times. Maybe it's also a nice idea to separate politics and technology a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u176	I'm going to see Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u177	Mr President, I am sorry, this is not a way of replying. These are very serious questions from a concerned parliament that asks: what exactly is the matter with them? Apparently, there's a bottleneck there. The Minister takes that off with: I have already answered three times. Yeah, I've heard them say it's done in time. I don't think that's enough. I would ask the Minister to answer the question as to when the link has been completed with the GGD, with the general practitioners, with the institutions and with the health services. I would like an answer to that, by category. The Minister will say: it will be ready in time. Mr President, that really is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u178	However, the most important part of the answer is that it is ready in time and that the basis is in place. I have also indicated what the dispute is about. The dispute is not about the technique, but about the data sharing. That's the fraternity that's playing. That is the complex thing to solve, and so is the political one. So it's not so much about technology; it's not our job. Our job is to ensure that the performers are ready in time. That's the answer I get when I ask this test question to the executive parties. And I just think it's good to take that seriously, too. Then, of course, I promised you that you would be informed as comprehensively as you wish. I'll do that in writing. Then there are all kinds of technical briefings possible to inform you further. But I don't think there's a dispute here about IT systems that's very uplifting, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u179	No, Mr. Clover. I call Mr Asscher. Then there is Mr Dijkhoff and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u180	Finally, Mr President, I will end on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u181	You're really repeating the same question three or four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u182	I am not going to repeat the question, but I am going to answer the Minister's argument. He says: "We should not have a technological dispute here, because this is really a political issue. It is about data exchange and that is necessarily political, and I will come back to it later in a letter." This is a political issue, and that is why I want to have an answer to it in this debate. If we are going to take all the debates off in writing, then we are going to have a written consultation. This is not a written consultation, it is a debate! I want to be able to respond to this in a second term. I would like to consider whether we should table motions on this matter. That's why I'm asking you to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u183	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u184	Mr. Chairman. I've given the answer a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u185	Good. Mr Asscher. After that, Mr Dijkhoff will be present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u186	The minister has a super-heavy week, after the press conference and so on. I realize that. However, I think it is important to point out that there is some arrogance in the response. That's not so much with this minister, but I've seen it before in this crisis. When it was about testing in the spring, it was said that the Netherlands had a finer system, of a higher quality. That's why we didn't do the stupid mass tests like the Danes did. When it came to research into sources and contact, it was said: "That is our core task, so we can actually do it with less hours than many other countries." And we didn't call, "because that doesn't fit the people." That's what I just heard a little bit back from the answer about the Germans. "They don't have such an equipped system of flu vaccinations, so there's a whole new system to be set up." But the Germans seem to be better prepared than we are. That is relevant, because I do not want to get back to the point that we have to establish that there is trust in our beautiful system. The Prime Minister called it the world's best system earlier this week. I do not wish to conclude later that this system for this crisis, for this pandemic, which is unheard of, is not sufficient, as we saw in the testing and in the source and contact research. I would very much like the guarantee that this will not happen at the moment of vaccination. So the question is the following, especially at that point where it was just about that prickly discussion about the IT system. Wasn't it known in the summer that parts of data around registration had to be done, with all the performers? Did the Minister not rely too much on the existing system, the decentralised system, which is great in many respects, but not on this crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u187	First of all, there is no desire to deal with the reply here in an arrogant manner. On the contrary, and thank you for your condolences, but the week wasn't that hard. I think it is very nice to be working on this subject of vaccination, because it is so incredibly essential. I've been working on it 24/7, too, and for a very long time. And very early this spring. It's a number of things. I think I share Mr Asscher's view that in our system, which is indeed a great thing to tell, you can at least identify a number of vulnerabilities. I've done the same thing on a regular basis. I do not think that we should resolve this now in the middle of this crisis. In my view, we really need to make a proper assessment of the crisis and then learn lessons from it for our system. I think the decentralised design of the system is one of our vulnerabilities when you would like to conduct a central direction in a crisis. The same goes for the GGDs, but I hope and I want them to hear that in the most loving way, because I think the GGDs are doing a fantastic job, given these circumstances. But 25 GGDs and 25 GGD-regions that are actually the joint municipalities are about. Mr Asscher was certainly also once chairman of a common GGD scheme; I was also alderman that is ultimately not the way to build a tight crisis organisation. And yet we just have to deal with it in the middle of a crisis. And why? If you're trying to reorganise in the middle of a crisis, you're sure it's not going well. Two is the choice made around the summer for the basic approach in the vaccination strategy. We have chosen to rely on the practitioners who also do the flu vaccination. The assessment has been made that they are approximately the same risk groups. That has proved to be a fair assessment. The assessment has also been made that if you want to create confidence in the execution, it is wise to join those who normally also prick. Especially with people in disability care institutions and with people in nursing homes, it is nice if the institution doctor does that. He knows the people. He knows the vulnerabilities. That's really nice. At a small-scale institution, it is nice to have the general practitioner involved do so. At the medical risk groups at home, it's nice to have the general practitioners do that. I think that has been a sensible strategy. And yes, it does indeed mean that it makes it less possible to push a button on the VWS ministry and then let everyone jump in the posture. That's not how our beautiful little country works, and our health care system certainly doesn't. So that means that you go in consultation with executive parties. That's what we do in the Netherlands. That's not wrong, especially considering the profits of sticking close to home. That leads to the confidence you need for a high vaccination rate. I'm not looking at Germany with a look like "stupid they don't." I note only that we have organised our influenza vaccination in a way that does not exist in Germany. In any case, healthcare systems are often very difficult to compare. I think the German healthcare system also has a lot of vulnerabilities, but a number of things they do very well. I think those things are very useful to them in this crisis. When it comes to testing capacity, I think we can be very proud of our laboratories, but so do those large-scale laboratories. So we're working hard on that, too. We already have a number of large-scale laboratories. We're going to whole robotized labs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u188	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u189	It has to be, just to be ready for another crisis. So yes, of course we need to learn from the way in which this system can function in this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u190	Those beautiful things about the system, I understand. I welcome the fact that there is a relativisation of what the Prime Minister of the week called "the best system in the world."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u191	By the way, of course, the cabinet speaks with one voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u192	That wasn't supposed to be silly. I also agree that the GGD works tremendously hard, including all employees. But my question, which is in line with Klaver's question about the IT system, is the following. Even if you want to be pricked by familiar faces, you could have known from the summer that all those implementing organisations should eventually register in the same system. From the Minister's reply, I conclude that the task of adapting that IT system ultimately came from the decentralised organisations, namely the GGDs. That is a consequence of our system. The Minister has lost time with that. If in the summer it was said "boys, we need one system anyway," for example the Claver system in which everyone can talk to each other, you would have won that time. Why is that relevant? Perhaps not to reach the same level of vaccination at the end, but perhaps to the people who become ill from now until 18 January. The sooner people are vaccinated, the better they are protected against this virus. That is, of course, also about people who may get long-term complaints. That is why I repeat my question: couldn't the Minister have already known this summer that, regardless of the order of the vaccines, an IT system would be needed in which the various pricking agencies could register who is in front of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u193	That is precisely what has been commissioned: the central register in which the pricking authorities can indeed share their data. Then it requires IT links. That's not where the problem is. What the dispute is about is between the general practitioners and the RIVM. RIVM says that it seriously needs a number of data for the central registration, because otherwise it cannot run the central control of the vaccination campaign. And the general practitioners say: yes, but under what conditions do I share this and what is the relationship with medical professional secrecy? That's the argument. It's not technical, but it's a substantive dispute about what conditions you can share. Mr. Chairman. I note a great deal of interest among many Members of Parliament in the question of IT, when what mandate has been given, what IT systems are being used. I think it is very good to give a more detailed explanation of this than has been done so far, because I see the interest and want to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u194	No, Mr President, that is silly and does not do justice to the debate. It is not a great interest in IT systems, but the question of this debate is why the Netherlands will vaccinate later than our neighbours. The Minister's argument is: because our IT systems are not yet ready. And then the Chamber asks: when was the order given, why are these IT systems not ready? It's not about interested in the IT system itself, because we would have started working at an IT company. It's about protecting the Dutch population from this virus. With everything the Minister says, including the problem of professional secrecy for one person and the sharing of information for the other, I think: that is not new, you knew that in the summer. If that was the dispute, I don't understand why that hasn't been resolved by now. That could have been resolved in October or November. Then the question remains why the Netherlands is not going to vaccinate sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u195	We've just had a really long conversation. I explained that. That has to do with the switch we had to make to the G.D.D. This means that the GGD indeed had to adapt a number of things before one could start responsibly. I think we've discussed that at length. That doesn't have much to do with the central registration system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u196	The Minister has said a great deal, but then you cannot say that we have discussed it in detail. The question of the debate was why the Netherlands cannot vaccinate earlier like its neighbours. The Minister's answer was that the IT system is not yet ready. Then ask Klaver and others when that order was given. And now we get three different explanations. One is that it concerns a problem of professional secrecy, data sharing. You just said that five minutes ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u197	You're really confusing everything, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u198	I will certainly not call the Minister arrogant, but if I am corrected in an argument in this way, I will accept it with love. However, I note that in the testing, the source and contact research and now in the vaccination process, there is a somewhat confusing story with various reasons why the Netherlands is late with this. I ask the Minister, for the last time, Mr President, because I understand that otherwise he will look even more irritated...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u199	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u200	I really don't think he's in a position to do this this way. It's about something too important, and I think he realizes it. The question is: if it is not the dispute between the general practitioners and others about sharing data, if it is not the time to give the order for an IT system that Klaver asked for, if it is not that we may have relied too much on our own system in relation to the Germans, then why are people in the Netherlands vaccinated later than in our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u201	At the start of the debate we discussed this very question. The answer I have given is that there are still a number of steps to be taken at the moment in order to be able to start in a careful way. The question is whether you would like to deviate from those careful steps in order to be able to start earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u202	No, the question is why those steps weren't taken before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u203	The answer to that question is: no, I wouldn't want that. The follow-up question is then why the GGD didn't get to work on this job earlier. Well, the answer is, that's because, given the delivery conditions of the vaccine, we had to make the switch in the first week of December, to ask the GGD to actually make the safety net roll, to which they had declared themselves willing to make it work for this target group. That is why the GGD is now working with this target group and that this target group is not vaccinated by the occupational physician, because small-scale administration does not go into a nursing home or into a disability care institution. Therefore, the employees are invited to a central location of the GGD. As a result, the GDPRs must get on their feet sooner than they had originally thought and should have thought on the basis of the agreed strategy. I have always said that we want to remain agile in implementation. And we are. So that's what we've done. The same implementation has proved extremely manoeuvrable. But the question is whether it would be possible to choose another route on the way to preparation on Tuesday, when the EEA's opinion on admission would not be on the 29th but on the 21st, when we already had a very tight route on the way to the first week of January. The answer to that question is no. I have discussed this very intensively with the implementing parties: are we still able to do so? The answer to that is: no, not if you want to do it in a responsible and careful way. And to that, to that choice of the executive parties, I want to do justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u204	No one is asking us to go through these implementing parties and take risks there. I do not think that is the focus of the debate at all. The question is much more why we haven't learned from the experiences we have gained in testing and from the source and contact research to make sure you're done earlier, why those steps haven't been taken sooner. I did not have a satisfactory answer to that except then, and that seems to be a deja vu of the source and contact research: our plan was good, the planning was good; only, the reality did not stick to our planning. That's what's happening: our plan was good, our planning was good; only, reality didn't stick to our planning. It's almost as if it's annoying that the vaccine comes sooner. I do not find that reassuring for what remains to be done in this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u205	No, it's not like that, Mr. Chairman. It is very nice that the vaccine arrives so early, but I do think it is sober to note that there are a lot of unknowns that you have to relate to in the planning and in the implementation of this vaccination campaign. That is precisely something we have recognised from the outset. That is why I have always said: given the strategy, we will have to be flexible in implementation. Well, we've shown that agility. The performance parties have taken that incredibly well. The GGD really did that admirably well. We had no choice but to make that choice. And yes, we had to make that choice at a late stage, because then it really turned out that it was impossible to go for the A-choice. The A-choice was: first the residents in the nursing homes. I couldn't do that with these delivery conditions. And so we had to step away from smaller-scale administration and switch to larger-scale administration at central locations. That's the choice we made. That's why we found the G.D.D. prepared. They're doing that job. They set up their planning on the first week of January; that's insanely fast. And then there's the message on Tuesday: it could possibly be sooner. The logical question we then have to ask is: could you possibly be responsible even sooner? No, the execution says, it can't be done in a responsible, careful way. Then I accept that. Moreover, you are not asking for a derogation; I do not want to have said that. I accept that, and then the question is: couldn't you choose a symbolic administration like many other countries? I said 'for several reasons, I do not think it is wise to take that decision', although I think that the consideration that some countries make to do so is legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u206	Mr Dijkhoff and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u207	If I hear everything, then the answer to the question with which I entered the debate is why can't we do so on those days? In fact, we can do that, but not with the group we had in mind. That was already a group B. So you should find another group. Worst case scenario: all very young, fit people. I would not call it symbolic, because those people were vaccinated afterwards; that is not symbolic. And it has a signal function. It helps to give the citizen courage. I do not need to explain why other countries do. Would the part of the vaccines you give them be at the expense of the number of staff in the nursing homes that are vaccinated in the first batch? Or is the second delivery already foreseen before it runs out? Or is that really at the expense of that? I think it is now more of a dilemma than an impossibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u208	Look, of course, we have such large numbers that in the end everyone really gets their turn. But the number in the first group we're going to invite is greater than the available number of vaccines. So the group of employees in nursing home care, disability care and home care care, the district care and the Wmo home support are therefore larger than the first batch of available vaccines. So, yes, indeed, it is a zero-sum game. It's really gonna cost you. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u209	Okay. Then I'll paint it more like a dilemma. I am not saying that I would make another choice, and I do not want to stir up the marriage between the minister and the executive bodies. But you could say, if you like to fix it on that date: it is possible, but then we take a number-thousand vaccines that are actually intended for staff in the nursing homes, and then we just give them to another target group. This means that we have less for the people in the nursing homes, but then you can get that date. So it's possible, but it has drawbacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u210	That's right. It's not black and white either, because that symbolism is not a reproach. That symbolism is also important and beautiful. It also tells the story of the need to do vaccines. He also tells a story of hope. We could use that in this time of year. So perhaps it could also help in a communicative sense. So I don't want to flatten that out. It's not a black and white choice either. It's a dilemma. I have presented this dilemma and discussed it in detail with the implementing parties. I've been convinced that it's not wise to do anything that weighs it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u211	The common thread is that the minister is always late. So he is talking to the executive organisations, but too late. He will look at the system and its integration or connecting or sharing data in such a system, but too late. These are things that, of course, we could have foreseen. Yes, we do remember that from testing. Then we stood here and the minister said, "Well, then and then we can test so much." We weren't out or even in here yet and then we got messages from the GGD, who said: well, we don't really know anything about it yet, so we're really worried about that. In this light, I would like to put a specific question to the Minister on how to proceed. Just before the debate, of course, we received a note from the Minister stating that on Monday, 4 January, the employers in the care sector will send the first invitation to the group of caregivers who can be vaccinated first. In fact, my specific question is: are those employers in the care sector going to do so on 4 January, but do they know that themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u212	Or do they themselves know that they are supposed to send out those invitations on 4 January? Well, they know they're supposed to send out those invitations anyway. I assume that people also know that that will be on the fourth. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u213	Well, we just had, of course, a short suspension before we moved on. I used it to approach a number of employers in health care, because it was in the letter we got from the minister. They didn't really know anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u214	Well, I don't know who called you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u215	It doesn't really matter who I called. I called some care workers, who, according to the Minister's letter, are supposed to invite their staff to vaccination on 4 January. I only ask this because it seems like a pattern that the minister here in the Chamber will not say: things promise an expectation, while those executive organizations, of which he just said in the debate, find them sensible and listen to the performers, are not aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u216	Well, it seems to me that they are not aware, but I can imagine that the planning as we have it is not very broad yet. You can't. That was the same last time. We then had Mr Hijink, I believe, in the budgetary procedure. That's when we had the same fraternity. Mr Hijink then asked, in response to the EEA decision: does this mean that we can start vaccination in the first week of January, in the week of 4 January? The answer was then and is now: I think I should inform you at the time when new information occurs, which will have consequences for the planning as I have previously given it in your direction. That does indeed mean that when the EEA came last Tuesday with the message that it was not going to be 29 but 21, I expected, I said to the Chamber at that time Mr Wilders asked that question during the debate: what does this mean for planning? That I really had to check with the executive parties. Yes, I did discuss that with the GGD and with the RIVM. That which employers must invite people is not new at all. They know that. It is well known that this is a matter of responsibility. Couple organisations are working on that, too, with their members. And the fact that a single employer is not aware of this clearly says something about the provision of information between the umbrella organisations and those employers, but I cannot estimate that. What I know is that we have agreed with the GGDs: what would be the first date that the login system could be opened up? That is the date on which you must also start sending out the invitations. That's the fourth one. This means that the employers can take out the first letters on the fourth, if the IT systems work at that time enough to start the notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u217	I ask this, of course, because we have been standing here many times with the Minister, who is shielding with 'the implementing organisations', who are indeed doing a fantastic job and who are indeed working very hard. We're all very grateful for that. But then it is a little harsh that these executive organizations are the ones who are attacked every time, so I say to the Minister, because of the plans he has. If we in the Chamber are confronted every time that it sticks with the implementation organisations, whether it was in the testing, in the source and contact research or in this way again, that worries me. I think it's a pattern we see here. Questions were also asked about the caregivers in the first period. They are invited first, then they have to sign up, then an appointment has to be made. I think it was Mr Segers, but perhaps it was someone else who said: it all sounds a bit cumbersome. In other words, we are seeing the following problem again. That is why I am asking this question. I find it worrying that we in the Chamber are getting a note saying that care workers are going to do this from 4 January, while those I called in the suspension all say: we do not know anything yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u218	We make these agreements with the umbrella organisations. They communicate with their members. I think that's why you apparently spoke to an employer who didn't know what to do. By the way, it seems very strong to me that an employer does not know that he is the one who has to invite and encourage his people to be vaccinated. I think that's very strong. That's a complicated story for me to follow. You also say: I think I see a pattern. That's right. That pattern you will continue to see in the near future. That pattern is that, as soon as I know information that I think you should know, I will share it with you. When information changes, I share it with you again, and sometimes not everything can be discussed with all the executive organisations first, because I think I should share it. If the EEA says it has a new schedule, it has consequences for the planning and I have to share it with you, I think. It may sometimes happen that in the order of things it doesn't exactly fit together. That was the case. At that time I admitted that in the direction of Mr Hijink. That was the case when I heard on Monday or Tuesday night that the EEA would come up with its prognosis of the 29th December. That was the moment when I actually felt that I needed to clarify what that would mean before the start of vaccination. Until then, I had said: in the first months of the new year. But this meant: very quickly, in January, and possibly even if everything was included in the week of January 4th. That is indeed true, but I felt it necessary to share it with you immediately. Then I heard the reactions of the general practitioners who said: oh, that's what we hear for the first time now. Yes, I also heard for the first time the night before that the EEA would be so quick. That's how things go sometimes. I must be able to continue to do so; I must be able to continue to share with you the information I receive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u219	I may be a little slow tonight. At the risk that the question may have already been asked, I would like to know this. There was a strategy. The Minister says that we have had to deviate from that. My question is quite simple: how much time does it take? How much time has been lost, if time has already been lost, because we have had to deviate? How much longer does it take, just in terms of days, when we have to implement a different strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u220	The choice of late November, early December was to ask the GGDs to perform the safety net function for this first group. In fact, Mr Dijkhoff asked the same question, and I answered it: I cannot say that in that way. But I do know that when we had made the switch, so when we had gotten that moving insight, we agreed with the GGD a timetable, starting from aiming for the first week of January. That's the timetable they made happen. The question is: could I deviate from that when I heard on Tuesday that the EEA could not be the 29th, but the 21st? The answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u221	As I said, Mr President, I asked my question at the risk that I might not have listened properly. Maybe we didn't waste any time. Then I understand the debate or at least the answer less and less well. There was a strategy. Which provided for vaccination, at some point and in a certain way. The minister found out that wasn't gonna work. Then he fell back on a different approach. My question is: has that taken time, so we are going to vaccinate later than the neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u222	No, I don't think there's any difference in that, but I can't say for sure either, because we've chosen the order we chose. In that case, the question would be: if you had previously made the switch to the GGD, would that have led to having finished earlier? I can't answer that question because we didn't make that choice. As soon as we made that switch, we chose a timeline based on the most rapid planning, as we knew it at the time. That was the planning that was aimed at the first week of January: is that feasible, dear GGD? Well, with pain and effort, steam and boiling water and very hard work that could be carefully feasible. That's the course we've chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u223	That's what we've been told. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u224	If that is not the case, then what does it explain that we start twelve days later in relation to other countries around us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u225	I think I have explained this a number of times. Germany has really made a completely different choice to the strategy. That is a legitimate choice, but it is not the choice we have made. Most of the other countries that say, "We may still be able to do it just before Christmas," make the choice of symbolic administration. We have not chosen that for a number of reasons. Although, for the sake of fairness, I have to say that I understand the dilemma and that I also understand the consideration of choosing to do so. But we don't choose it, all of it, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u226	I think the Minister indicated that he was at the end of his reply. I missed the answer to one question. There are open vacancies for project leader vaccination at the GGD in five regions. I just want to make sure that in a few weeks we will not find that in Rotterdam, Amsterdam, Arnhem, Zaandam and Eindhoven the vaccination cannot actually start because the GGD is not ready yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u227	I can't imagine that at all, given the fact that, of course, I asked the test question: will it work? Apart from IT and so on, things have to be arranged in the area of locations, personnel crew and so on. Your Chamber asked for this earlier, and I said that at the time: that does not seem to be the concern of the GGD directors. They're really gonna get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u228	Those vacancies have been online for two days. The job description says: you will develop and implement the vaccination policy, you will provide sufficient qualified staff and your main task is the logistical handling. In five regions with a total of 7 million inhabitants, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u229	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u230	And the Minister can now guarantee that those regions, these GGDs, are ready to vaccinate at those 25 locations as of January?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u231	I've been given a guarantee that they can vaccinate at those 25 locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u232	Mrs. Sazias. Mr. Klaver, you've just been extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u233	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u234	A point of order. Well, come on. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u235	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. I actually feel that with every answer we get I only have more questions and that we don't get the answers we like... Which at least I like to... The ones we need. I would like to make the point: should we not suspend the debate? It's 12:00. Should we not continue the debate at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u236	When did you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u237	We have discussed that this debate should perhaps have taken place on Tuesday. It could be Tuesday. It may be mine tomorrow. I would love to go through the night, but we also have a responsibility to look at each other: is it justified to do so? I have the questions I want to ask, and I would like to answer them, so I will continue to do so in the second term. I can also imagine, when it is so late, that we say: we suspend and proceed at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u238	I think all the questions have been asked and they have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u239	I've answered all the questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u240	Suspended for what purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u241	Mr. Chairman. I've asked some questions about the IT systems. In my second term I am going to put it again, for example: has the link with the general practitioners been established? There are so many inconsistencies in this minister's story. In this way I do not want to go into the recess, if I do not feel that the vaccination strategy really stands. I have questions about that. We're not getting the answers. I'm gonna ask them again later. As far as I am concerned, we may continue until 3:00 a.m. tonight, but I think it is important that we also look after each other. It's the end of the year. There is a lot of hard work, even the hardest by this Minister, and I would therefore like to consider saying that we can also suspend and move forward at a later date. In any case, I think we should ask this question out loud with each other and answer it. We can continue tonight, but I want answers to those questions, even if it's 3:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u242	We asked as a Chamber today for a letter and it came soon. We have been debating this for a few hours now. The Minister has already promised to send a new letter next week. You can find anything from the Minister's answers, but then you just have to file a motion in second term. It really doesn't make sense to suspend now and move on at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u243	I see that Mr Dijkhoff agrees. With Mr. Jetten, yes. Is this what this is about, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u244	I'd like to support that. I'm also asking questions about those systems. The experts who are also following this debate say: the Minister does not know what he is talking about at all. He says inconsistent things. I'd really like a letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u245	That's the Minister's word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u246	Exactly. It's gonna be made next week. I really want a very clear timetable and the answers to the questions put by Mr Klaver and me. And then I want to talk about it here again. This is just not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u247	I do not see any support or at least broad support for Mr Klaver's order proposal. So we're just gonna finish the debate. The Minister has promised to send a letter with comprehensive information on ICT systems and other things. I shall now turn to Mrs Sazias with the last question. Well, you haven't interrupted yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u248	I haven't said much yet, Mr President. The Minister always talks about symbolic vaccination when it comes to vaccinations abroad. Does he mean that all those countries around us are only doing a nice shot for the picture? Fourteen thousand people have already been vaccinated in the United Kingdom. I wouldn't call it that. Could he be any clearer about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u249	That's what they call it. They use the words "symbolic administration." That's what they say because they say they're not ready. Not all of them, because a country like Germany, for example, is ready. It has really organised that differently, so has Denmark. For example, there are still a number of countries that are ready. A lot of countries that have said after Von der Leyen's call "let's see if we can do something for Christmas" are not ready. Yet they say: we do think it is important to use it symbolically. Symbolic is not disqualification to me. I understand the symbolism of it. I even think that symbolism is beautiful and important. That's why I had that conversation with the RIVM myself. I have just said this to Mr Dijkhoff. I understand that symbolism, and I think it's valuable. I have taken the floor from the countries themselves, which put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u250	Well, I haven't seen anything like that myself, even though I'm keeping track. In the United Kingdom, 140,000 people have already been vaccinated, and I think that is more than symbolism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u251	Sure, but the United Kingdom has done something else. It has said: I am going to introduce an emergency procedure and not wait for the supervisory review. It's possible. We can do that, but I think that is very unwise. Again, it is not about the starting date, it is about the confidence that one has in vaccination and for that the vaccination rate is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u252	Thank you. No questions were asked to the Prime Minister. Thank you for answering the questions. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u253	Mr. Chairman. I saw tonight a health minister who was anything but convinced, who even at times seemed irritated and arrogant. This is the umpteenth time he promised golden mountains, but didn't succeed in explaining in ten thousand sentences and promising to send letters why once again it didn't work out. We've seen that in the source and contact research, in the testing, in the protective equipment. It's the Minister of Blamage, Blamage and Blamage. At an average company, he would've been thrown out ten times. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is that the Netherlands is lagging behind the rest of Europe. Other countries are already starting at the end of December. A colleague just told me. The United Kingdom has already vaccinated all 80-plussers at the end of this month, while the Netherlands, if we are lucky, is due in the summer. I'm not gonna accept that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet to make every effort to start voluntary vaccination this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-828]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u254	And finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Wilders motion calling for the addition of 70-plussers with comorbidity to the first groups that may be vaccinated has been adopted;]] [[calls on the Government to add 70-plusers with comorbidity to the two first groups and to have them started simultaneously with vaccination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-829]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u255	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u256	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, the Minister reiterated that a week earlier or later doesn't matter, because it's about when we're all vaccinated. I find that extremely regrettable, because it concerns people who may become ill. That's why it's serious if you're going to vaccinate later than our neighbors. The cabinet was late with test capacity. The cabinet was late with the source and contact investigation. The cabinet promised an app that would solve everything, but it turned out to be different. The cabinet seized too late this summer when the infections started. And now we find that the cabinet is not in time to prepare for vaccination. I am not going to support a motion to do it in spite of these inadequate preparations. I think that's too risky. We all have an interest in having confidence in the vaccination. But I would ask the Minister to deal with two things in the second term. One: removing the image "a week earlier or a week later doesn't matter." 'Cause that makes a hell of a lot of difference. Two: to learn the lesson of the fact that up to three or four times has been relied on the superior Dutch exceptionalist.................................................................................................................................................... Because we still have a long way to go in this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u257	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our country is on the eve of a very difficult few weeks. We have recently been in a lockdown and the pressure on care will only increase further in the coming period. And it's already hugely high. That is why I had hoped that this debate would reassure us more than it did this evening, to say the least. In any case, where mistrust, concern and anxiety should be removed, our group has increased them. I'd like to pass that on to the Cabinet. I think that's a risk we can't take. I would also like to make it clear here that we certainly consider care to be extremely important with regard to vaccination. We are not concerned about whether it should be a day or a week earlier or later, but much more about the question: are we all ready? That's where our big concern lies. We hit the nose every time. Whether it is testing, source and contact research or in the field of protective equipment, in other areas too, we have seen that the cabinet is always too late in this crisis approach. We can no longer afford that. That's where our concern lies. We asked questions about this tonight: what it looks like for the future. As far as we are concerned, these questions have not been sufficiently answered. I hope that the Minister will make a better attempt to do so in the second term. Because in this way it doesn't feel right at all when the Chamber goes with Christmas trees knowing that there are such important weeks ahead and that such a thing is not yet in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u259	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u260	Mr. Chairman. I have great concerns about the vaccination strategy and the implementation of that strategy. The Minister's answers add to my concern. The Minister answers very concrete questions with enormous words. I would like to say that that is no longer enough. Not after nine months in this crisis. The questions I asked were not: can it be a week faster, or can we start next week? I would like to support Mr Wilders' motion, but I will not do so because we are too late. It's just not gonna work anymore. I don't want to take irresponsible risks. In this we follow the execution. Now the question is, why didn't it go well? If the Minister says that integration with the GGD system was not yet good, I have the question: was it only the integration between the RIVM base system and the GGD system, or is the GGD system not finished? If he says that there has been a delay in switching from the general practitioner's approach to institutional doctors and occupational doctors and then back to the GGDs, I wonder: were those other systems not sure? Was the integration of these systems with the RIVM base system even regulated? Because if that integration had not been arranged, if those systems were not in order, we would also have been delayed if we had not had to change strategy. I would like to clarify this before we go into the field, because the vaccination strategy is crucial, as the Minister himself says, to get out of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u261	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u262	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. As I said earlier, January 8th is fantastic in itself. We thought it might take years before there was a vaccine. Everything was on course until the EEA said it might be a week early. Then of course you hope that everything can be done a week earlier, including vaccination. If we look back next December, it might make a week of it less important, but the people who get the vaccine are protected a week earlier and everyone who sees it has the good feeling that we started vaccination a week earlier. It's just too bad we can't speed up by letting the group we want to vaccinate first come sooner. Then there is the choice to vaccinate another group first to get that date and have that good feeling of that date. If this is at the expense of the rate at which we can vaccinate the staff in the nursing homes, who must form the ring of protection for our elderly, then surely not. I understand you don't make that choice, and I won't insist on it. Previously, we did not choose to lead the pace, because we could have said, just like the British, that we would have missed the approval of the EEA and that we would have gotten to work in a different way. We shouldn't do that all of a sudden this week: if you do something like this, do it sooner. I'm concerned about the exchange of data. Discussions about this will lead to years of strangling between institutions about the GDPR, with lawyers and entire battlefields. I would hope that somehow we'll find a way to cut that knot with all of us. Otherwise, you come into the situation that people really like the vaccine and say, I don't care, send it on, while there's a "jurist says no" somewhere, because we interpret the GDPR too strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u263	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u264	Mr. Chairman. With every objection from the Minister, I thought to myself: but why can it be done in all these other countries and not here? Are these other countries doing it carelessly? I don't believe it. Nor do I believe that all these other countries are simply symbolically vaccinate. The Minister was too long on that one track and left the GGD on the safety net for too long. We still have ten days to prepare call scripts for the call center staff. We have 10 days to solve the IT problems before it's December 27th. The minister says they don't celebrate Christmas at the GGD, but I can tell the minister they don't celebrate Christmas on ic either. That is why I will support all the motions that call for the start of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u265	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u266	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM reports that from the end of March it will be possible to access data on vaccination against the coronavirus via a website on which DigiD can be logged in;]] [[noting that the data are reportedly collected in a database keeping records of who received which vaccine;]] [[Whereas these data could be downloaded for example as evidence of vaccination;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that people are asked for prior consent to include their vaccine data in a database,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-831]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u267	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM reports that from the end of March it will be possible to access data on vaccination against the coronavirus via a website on which DigiD can be logged in;]] [[noting that the data are reportedly collected in a database keeping records of who received which vaccine;]] [[Whereas these data could be downloaded for example as evidence of vaccination;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that any person taking a corona vaccine is informed of the fact that his or her data may be entered in a database and informed of what is happening with this data,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-830]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u268	Thank you. Yeah, time's up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u269	Good. There will be plenty of debates where you can put your text. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u270	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer. I also realized that it was remarkable that tonight's debate was not about delay, but about acceleration. After all, the EEA has already come to fruition eight days earlier. I have one more question about that. In an interim statement by the Minister, it emerged that pressure had been exerted on the EEA to come forward with its conclusions earlier. To what extent is it ensured that no unnecessary risks have been taken in this process, due to the incredibly understandable desire to get out quickly? Can we count on that? I felt that Mr Klaver made a correct link at some point with the report that was published today on a very different subject. That report also concluded: do not question the execution. I believe that this should remain on the retina of this particular issue. I understand all the desire for acceleration, but as far as the SGP Group is concerned, it must be stressed that implementation will continue to be given the time needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u271	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am disappointed because the Chamber has not received a correct answer or no answer to many questions. While we are having this debate here, you will notice that there are other noises in the media. More and more sounds indicate the failure of the corona approach. If I were you, Madam President, I would take into account a follow-up debate before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u273	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u274	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The confidence was already not very great and that did not get much better during this debate. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister of VWS has publicly stated that he does not exclude an indirect vaccination obligation;]] [[points out that a vaccination certificate should not constitute an access passport for participation in society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the substance Ivermectin has a strong antiviral effect and is described by medical science as a cause of hope for the treatment of COVID-19;]] [[Whereas the exclusion of a medicinal product which may produce good results is not ethical;]] [[calls on the Government to look openly at the use of the medicine in the treatment of COVID-19 and to inform itself of the various studies already carried out on lvermectin in relation to COVID-19,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-832]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-833]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u275	Mr. Chairman. This debate was about whether the Netherlands could have started earlier. The Minister replied extensively in a tough debate that it should be careful and safe, that thanks to the EEA it can now be faster and that ultimately the vaccination rate is more important than the starting date. The latter is of course true, because the sooner we are vaccinated massively, the sooner we can get our freedom back to a large extent. This debate also gives me the impression that we have gambled too long on plan A and plan B - a plan with Pfizer, a large-scale distribution plan - had not prepared enough. I look forward to the next letter from the Minister, in which he will discuss the ICT systems and the roadmaps. Then he can take us along in how we can get through those 25 locations from January onwards. Mr. Chairman. Vaccination is crucial to getting our freedom back. I do wonder what this debate is doing with the willingness to be vaccinated in the Netherlands. As I said in my first term, once the vaccine is available to non-care workers, I will be vaccinated. I would once again call on all members of the cabinet to do the same, to do so visibly, to show Dutch people that it is possible, that it is safe and that it helps to get out of this corona crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u276	Thank you. And finally, I'm gonna give you the floor... no? Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister is requesting a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u277	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u278	Thank you, Mr President. I'll check the motions and the questions in order of entry. I'll start with the motion in part No. 828 by Mr Wilders: calls on the cabinet to make every effort to start voluntary vaccination this year and to proceed to the order of the day. I think I'm betraying that, referring to everything we've said about it in the first term. Then the motion to part No. 829. That is actually a re-confirmation of a motion that has already been adopted. That is what we discussed at the time, and we share the view that this group should be vaccinated quickly. Those completely add to the first two groups can't actually, because that first group are those caregivers from the nursing home and the second is the group the residents of the nursing home. These would be the elderly with comorbidity. They'll come after, but soon after. I think we are very much in agreement on the need, but in this form I must nevertheless discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 830. It invites the Government to ensure that any person taking a corona vaccine is informed that his or her data may be entered in a database. That is what Mr Azarkan says. I'm going to leave the verdict to the Chamber on that. This is about informing the people who are being vaccinated about the existence and need of central registration. That's what we're gonna do, of course. Then the motion to part No. 831: calls on the government to ensure that people are asked for prior consent. Sure. That is also what we are going to do, so that is where I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 832, Van Haga and Baudet. That bothers me, because there is a statement that is simply contrary to what I have said. Vaccination is a complicated subject. I think it is really very wrong and really not right that a false statement is being made on purpose. I don't like all kinds of fake news and so on, but especially when it comes to vaccination, we just shouldn't do that. So I'm going to strongly discourage this motion. I am also going to ask Mr Van Haga to stick to the facts. The motion in part No. 833 calls on the government to look openly at the use of an agent in the treatment of COOVID-19. It's about ivermectin. Two things. One. There is no indication that ivermectin is effective in corona. That's one. Two, much more importantly, is that it is not up to politics to say which means is working or not. We've talked about that before. I think that this is wrong and I think that it is even more wrong to promote politically a means which doctors say does not work. So I also advise against this motion. Then I have a few more questions. First of all, that is Mr Asscher's question, that week earlier and that week later. First of all, I would like to stress that the real competition................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is why it is important that we create confidence, and that is why it is important that we proceed carefully. That is the whole debate we have had. In that context, I said that in the end it does not matter whether you start a week earlier or a week later, but that it ultimately matters how quickly you can build up a certain immunity. That's important. Immunisation is important. At the same time, I think we agree. If I could have done it a week earlier, I would of course have been very happy. I very much agree with Mr Asscher, of course. I think we're more in agreement than he might have thought. On his second question, I think I agree more with Mr Asscher than he suggested. I think that was also the answer to the question as he put it in the first term. Mr Asscher says: do we not rely too much on the system as we know it in the Netherlands? In addition, with all the nuance, I say that I think there are a lot of beautiful aspects to our system and the way in which we organized our care. That is also the background to the choice that, in the case of vaccination, I find all other comparisons equally difficult to make in this case, to join the healthcare provider who is used to vaccinate this target group, i.e. to join the flu vaccination. At the same time, of course, I also see the vulnerabilities of the Dutch healthcare system, with the whole decentralised organisation. I am sure that will be reflected in the evaluation of this crisis. I am sure that measures will have to be taken on this issue in a subsequent cabinet period. Everyone has their peculiar hobbies: I sometimes watch election programs. When you look at the election programmes, you can see that even my neighbour's party, Mr Rutte, thinks: well, it was wise to organize something more central, that unpromising care system aside, of course. And I even think I've come across a quote from my neighbor in Elsevier Weekblad Ohio which a human being doesn't all make time for, in which he even pleads for a more centralized care system. In my view, this means that there is also a real parliamentary majority, which is important for a further review of the functioning of the health system. In the last few years I have not noticed that enthusiasm very much, I have to say honestly. But a slightly different organisation of health care in a subsequent period might well be a very sensible thought. Well, then who's alive, uh... I'm sure we'll talk about it later. Then I.T. We will certainly be able to talk about this, because I think it is important that Mr Klaver and others who have asked questions have confidence in the IT system that is being organised. So I see it as my mission to give you that confidence. For now, I am keeping it real, also for the sake of time, with the short version of the answer, namely: the central registration system will be ready at the end of December. Not all automatic couplings are ready, but automatic couplings are not necessarily needed either. The point is: is it technically possible to share data? The answer to that question is yes. That's the most important thing for now. And by the way, that system is not ready. It also needs to be developed. But the start of vaccination can take place with this registration. I think that is the most important thing for now, but I am going to give you more detailed information on this and I am sure that we will be able to discuss it further. And I think it's important, too. Mr Dijkhoff actually refers to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u279	Mr. Klaver, briefly. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u280	Mr. Chairman. I will not ask for it now, because we have had a wide-ranging debate on it. This seems to be the answer the Minister wants to give at least tonight. I would like to ask him if he would like to enter the IT systems in a separate letter. I ask him not to take this with him in the bulk, but to dedicate a separate letter to this. Can he really comment on the different systems that exist for the different types of implementation organisations? Let me mention them for the sake of completeness: the GGD, the GPs, the occupational doctors and the institutional doctors. I want to get a very precise insight into that. And I'd like to hear from the Minister when we get that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u281	Yes. I'd like to go into that in a separate letter. In fact, I would have liked that better myself, because I would have liked to send you that other letter Monday or Tuesday, so really early in the next week. In that I can give a more detailed planning of the time ahead and I can give a preview of the time ahead. But this really requires more work and I don't have this done Monday or Tuesday; I can't do that to people. So I would suggest sending that letter to the Chamber about the IT systems prior to the next Corona debate in the new year. And I hope that this will not be next week, but in the first or second week of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u282	Mr. Clover, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u283	I believe that the first debate scheduled for 12 January is on the agenda. So I'd like that letter for that. And can it also specifically address the underlying privacy problems and legal technical problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u284	Sure. What I can take with me in the letter from the beginning of next week, I will take with me, but that will not be very extensive. And what I can say more about that, I will write in the letter you will receive before the debate on 12 January. Then there is Mr Dijkhoff's cliffhanger, or at least my cliffhanger on Mr Dijkhoff. He says, "Yeah, maybe you shouldn't do it just for the good feeling." I'd like to share that with him, just as I share with him that if you could have done it before, of course you would have liked to have done it. I understand that, of course. After all, this is also symbolic: a common moment in Europe, a start that you are making with a truly new phase in the crisis. That would have something really nice. Mr President, two more points by Mr Van der Staaij. The first is: has there been pressure on the EEA? Contentually, never. The EEA will not let that happen either. We cannot do that either, because that naturally undermines confidence in the whole system. So it's certainly not content. But I do know that from a very friendly neighbour, namely Germany, it has been asked: "Oh, can't it be a week earlier, because the stuff that has been developed by us "BionTech" is a German company that is now used in many countries, but not yet with us and that is really not to be defended. That is what has been asked from other countries. This means that the EEA has looked at its own schedule with the question: can it really not go any faster? The EEA therefore wanted to accept this, but this is not a matter of substance. I think it's necessary to say that. Finally, the final point. Mr Van der Staaij also refers to what Mr Klaver said with reference to the report published today. We have had a brief debate on this, but I very much support it, not only because of today's report, but also because of the importance of its implementation. I think that this interest in the political heat of the struggle is far too often insufficiently weighed against what you really want politically-in substance, namely the speed you would like to act on. But you'll never regret taking the execution into account. So I very much agree with that. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-69.u286	That is what brought us to the end of this debate. There are motions that we can vote on tonight, including a motion that is probably time-bound. I would like to thank the VWS Minister and the Prime Minister. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments until we have the voting list. Or do you guys need a little longer suspension? That's okay, too. No. Shall we just vote on that one motion? Yes. Then we'll vote on the other motions after the recess.
