ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u1	The Minister remains in our presence for a while, because we are now moving to the VSO Policy vision on philanthropy. Two Members have asked for speaking time and two Members are present in the Chamber. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP for her contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The government has made a new policy vision on philanthropy. That means that if you give money to foundations, anbis, you can deduct it from taxes, among other things. The SP looks very differently at philanthropy than in the Gift Act. I'm sure we'll have that discussion even more. But what we were very shocked about in the course of the written consultation is that money laundering and the prevention of tax avoidance through this Gift Law and through the policy vision on philanthropy are totally out of the picture, when we know that it can take place there. Hence the next motion to change the policy vision. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that combating money laundering and tax avoidance is not part of philanthropy policy;]] [[also noted that by 2020 donations to anbis are expected to deduct 377 million euros from income tax but that the government has no understanding of the extent of abuse;]] [[considers that a regime of such magnitude should be provided with a sound anti-abuse policy;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate in detail the extent of the abuse of the anbi regime, the ways in which it is abused and to complement the philanthropy policy vision with regard to money laundering and tax avoidance through the Dijfwet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22740-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Philanthropy is an important thing, not only for the Netherlands but also for CDA members. Every year we give 6 billion to charities, and I believe that almost half of the Dutch are doing voluntary work. This is not only important for the CDA, but I'm sure it's also important for a lot of currents and movements in our country. We have two further questions to ask in connection with the written round. First of all, because of the corona crisis, many charities and philanthropic institutions are in severe weather. The interbranch association claims that there is a loss of income of between 10% and 30%. Is the Minister aware of this? Is this discussed with these institutions? And what does this mean for the work and implementation of these organisations? Then there's my second question. What about the bill already announced on money flows from unsafe countries? That is one of the points in the coalition agreement. Current events show how important that is. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment so that the Minister can prepare himself. One motion has been tabled and a few questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u5	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Van Dam's question on charities in heavy weather. Everyone has felt the impact of this corona crisis, including the charity sector. We're good at talking to the CBF. There's an investigation going on, carried out by I believe Radboud University, to see what the impact is. In previous discussions with the CBF we already had some feedback on this and had a look at it. Then you can see quite a varied picture. Some people are very much on board, because at this time in particular a lot of people are saying: I want to show my good side and I want to make a contribution. But sometimes there are small charities that really get a touch. Those talks are therefore ongoing, as are the investigations, so the contacts are good, as I say in the direction of Mr Van Dam. Mr Van Dam also asked for a less fine side of gifts, especially gifts from abroad. There are two specific legislative proposals. One is already a long way off and is about making foreign money flows transparent. That is currently with the Council of State. I am awaiting the opinion, and on that basis we need to look at how we are taking further steps. I expect it to come your way after the summer. The other bill is much more fundamental and complicated. That is drawn by my colleague Koolmees. Could you say on the basis of reciprocity that if non-free countries do not allow money to be received from abroad, then there is no money coming from those countries to the Netherlands? There is a trial of legislation in the making to examine it in detail first at the Council of State. So that will not come your way until later. Finally, there is one motion, in part No. 23, by Mrs Leijten. I advise against this motion. Not because I don't want to make a fist against money laundering, but because the motion seems to suggest a little bit as if this is the vehicle by which a lot of money is laundered. That's where I really want to keep it. A whole system of anbis is being worked on. Through the Wwft, incredibly much is being done from the Ministry of Finance to combat money laundering. I think that is enough at the moment, and that is why I will not recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u7	The motion in part No. 23 is not recommended. That raises a question for Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u8	I think it's really crazy. We have been fooled by the European Commission that we are doing too little against money laundering. Our banks have received high fines and settlements because they do too little money laundering. We are a financial hub as a country through tax avoidance and evasion, where a lot of money is laundered. We have a shadow economy, which this minister also talks about regularly, in which a lot of money is laundered. If you then make a policy vision on philanthropy based on the idea that we want to support charities, then shouldn't this also be part of it? I'll leave it to the government to shape it, but if you don't do it in all your naivety, you'll blow up the philanthropy on your own, so I'll tell the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u9	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u10	I am against money laundering and I am in favour of a tough approach to crime. But looking at the philanthropic sector, Red Cross, KWF, Jantje Beton, I think it really goes too far to say: they are a hub in a large money-laundering industry. So we're just dealing with money laundering at the root and not by putting the philanthropic sector in that light right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u11	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u12	The Netherlands does not tackle money laundering at all, because we are internationally under the magnifying glass and our banks are under the magnifying glass. In the written consultation I mentioned that many of these anbi's do not deliver and deposit annual reports. We have no idea if they can have that anbistatus at all. We have the whole discussion about unwanted funding from abroad, which includes this. If you make a new policy vision and look away from your naivety, I'm not okay with it. I am not saying how to do it, but I say: map out the anbis where possible. We know that will happen. Map that and make sure that money laundering and tax avoidance are part of your policy vision, so that you do not face scandals. This minister has been warned. This minister has been warned. If he rejects it, he rejects it, but I hope the Chamber is wiser.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. There is also a question from Mr Van Dam. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u14	Yeah, I'll be brief. I understand the Minister's objection to the motion, but at the same time we read in the documents that 44,000 anbis are controlled by 18 fte at the Tax Office. So let's not be naive. I was therefore wondering whether it would not be possible, perhaps in response to this motion, for the Minister to give a further letter on what this control of these anbi's looks like. Perhaps that is a reason for Mrs Leijten to hold her motion. Then perhaps at a later moment we can look at it with a bit more content, because it itches a bit at this point too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u15	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u16	Then I'm going to try to make two promises to you. One is about the anbis, but they are on the premises of Mr Vijlbrief. I would like to ask him if he would like to send another letter about what they are doing, how the control of those anbi's is taking place and how this is part of it. I think he's quite willing to send you a letter on that. The second one's next. I hear Mrs Leijten say a number of things, which I also think I would like to have arranged. Think, for example, of depositing the annual accounts and making it easier to understand about donations and gifts from abroad. That is exactly the bill I was talking about with Mr Van Dam. That's what's coming. I am actually happy in advance with the tentative support that I hope I can expect from the SP for the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u17	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-7.u18	Vote on this one motion will take place today. What time is that? We're going to see each other. I would like to thank the Minister and the MPs for their contributions.
