ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u1	I can only see that two ministers are not yet in box K. We'll wait a little longer. The Minister of Finance is here now. We're still missing the Minister of Economic Affairs. I hear something. Yes. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 3 billion for KLM, 600 million for ornamental farming, 200 million for the most vulnerable flexible labour force, and applause for the care. So you could summarize the emergency package. The Netherlands is in a severe crisis. A crisis whose effects are painfully felt, for people in the country and for businesses. The number of people without jobs has increased by 41,000 in a few months. That's just the beginning. Potentially, 1 million jobs could be lost. One in ten Dutchmen indicates that they are in a shortage of money. The groups in the most vulnerable position give the hardest hit. Especially the group with an uncertain flex contract andzzp'ers with the lowest income have no idea how to make it to the end of the month. The water is on their lips, leading to a lot of stress, uncertainty and fear. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch deserve a government that looks after them. The cabinet must not make the same mistakes as in the 2008 crisis when our social system was cut back and people's disposable income was frozen. It is also difficult to talk about a second package, because we do not really know how that first package worked out. Because how effective has the package of 17 March been? How much of that 14 billion has been spent? And how many jobs have been saved? But perhaps more importantly: can it be smarter on parts? Mr. Chairman. For DENK, three things are important: protecting jobs, giving the strongest shoulders the heaviest burdens, and helping the most vulnerable. To begin with, over the next three months, we are right to spend EUR 10 billion on paying labour costs to employees of companies that have a turnover loss. At the same time, however, the government reduces the chance to actually retain those jobs, because last night, when the market closed, the dismissal penalty was largely abolished. This also removes the incentive to keep people in service. That's actually incomprehensible. Can the government guarantee that companies will not fire people in bushes if the dismissal penalty largely lapses? We don't want American shit, do we? 40 million people have lost their jobs there. It is good that, in return for aid, companies are given an obligation to offer training to workers, but what exactly is this, an effort obligation? And what is the amount of EUR 50 million based on? Isn't that too little, with the tens of thousands of people who will be out of jobs? Why does the government still have a preference for generic measures, when we see that certain sectors are getting worse? The hospitality and recreation suffer much harder. Shouldn't there be more sector-specific arrangements to keep those jobs? The second point is that the strongest shoulders must bear the toughest loads. We must not spend the money on people who do not need it at all. It is not for DENK to digest that Air France-KLM is kept in the air with billions of Dutch taxpayers' money, while the top man is enriched with a fat bonus, and that only bonuses for the management and management are banned by 2020. Why not for the lucrative layer underneath? We can't let our taxpayers' money leak out to grubby shareholders who avoid tax. One year of fat profits and bonuses, and the next year of the tax money infusion, that's unprecedented, irresponsible and immoral. Why are wage costs paid by workers with wages up to €9.538 per month subsidised? Why should the normal Dutchman contribute to this? As far as DENK is concerned, that border goes to two modes. Finally, Mr President. DENK asks the government to take targeted measures to meet people who are struggling. We see that certain groups suffer more from this crisis than others. Flex workers and self-employed people with a lower income have to a large extent to contend with financial concerns. They are the folding seats of the economy, as the CBS calls them: self-employed taxi drivers, cleaners with a flex contract or servants working on a call basis. DENK wants to ask the government whether this group is not disproportionately hit by the partner test in the Tozo. For DENK, more support is in place. An increase in the Tozo aid scheme and in the implementation of the grant for flex workers, the TOFA, has the support. What is the government going to do in addition for groups that can be described as vulnerable? Will there be additional poverty regimes? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is in a severe crisis. A crisis is also a test for our civilization. It is important to show solidarity with the most vulnerable. No one shall remain without food, without clothes or without roof above his or her head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Of course I'm going to agree to this emergency package. There is no other way, because otherwise the Dutch entrepreneur will go bankrupt. But let us also highlight here that the emergency package is needed because of the corona measures of this cabinet. The damage is enormous because we weren't prepared. We had no tests, no masks and no plan, and in recent years, the cabinet has cut down half the ic-beds and the ic-staff. We've been in a lockdown for three months now and the cabinet has a huge resistance to lifting the lockdown. It is unclear why, because there are almost no people left in intensive care. The delay in caring for heart patients and cancer patients is going to lead to a multiple of the coronadods. The cabinet also has a huge resistance to new insights. Whether it's hydroxychloroquine, which Minister De Jonge goes off as a quack, or the theory of aerosols put on the map by Maurice de Hond, the cabinet doesn't want to know about it. Instead of intelligent solutions, we were forced into one-and-a-half-meter society. No, thank you. As I said before, gyms, theatres, pubs, restaurants, bowling centres, concert halls and brothels will open again on 1 June. That would be the best support package for society. I would like to make a few specific points. Why does the Tozo suddenly include the partner's income in the follow-up package? Is this fair? Have the joint burdens suddenly subsided? I'm considering a motion on this point. It was good that the dismissal fine had expired under the NOW scheme. Companies need to be able to reorganise. Let us not pretend that the right of dismissal has suddenly become easier in the Netherlands. Unfortunately, this morning it was withdrawn again in the case of 20 or more employees. I'm so sorry, because it all seemed so realistic. It is good that the NOW scheme now includes seasonal companies. This error in the first scheme is now rightly corrected. But why not take the same months as in the previous year as the reference period? In the vote on the motion I tabled together with Mr Stoffer, the votes unfortunately stopped, but does the Minister agree that this would be a better solution? And is it true that the NOW aid is seen as turnover, which means that this NOW money will have to be paid back later? If that's the case, then the whole NOW scheme is a cigar out of its own box, isn't it? I see the Minister shaking his head. Let's hope this is okay. Mr. Chairman. As always, dgas are out of the boat. The NOW scheme does not apply to most DGAs. My question is therefore whether this can still be repaired, because this seems unreasonable to me. Finally, the asymmetry of the measures. Why don't we just make carts, laser gaming, mini golf, escape rooms, fairgrounds and bowling centers equal catering? Mr. Chairman. For the rest, I believe that we should normalize everything as quickly as possible and not on the one and a half meters, but just according to the old normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u6	Thank you, Mr President. The corona crisis has painfully exposed where our economy is failing, making people the victim of the choice of multinationals and the big money and making people with, as it turns out, vital professions very hard work for very little money in dangerous conditions. Exploitation has become a sort of solution. That is what we see now in the slaughterhouses: oh, those migrant workers are all sitting together in one house; so they form a household and then they can and can do their work in that slaughterhouse at less than one and a half meters side by side. Exploitation as a solution; how cynical do you want it? The Party for Animals therefore believes that this is not just an opportunity. You hear people say that a crisis is an opportunity. That's actually too positive. If you have a chance, it's nice if you use it, but it's not very bad if you don't use it. No, it is a moral duty to solve the system errors that vulnerable people and also vulnerable animals must now suffer, also because, due to the crisis, aid packages have rightly been allocated to help the affected entrepreneurs and businesses and to preserve jobs. The Animal Party supported that, but that does mean we're borrowing money. It also means that we are in recession. Who's gonna wear that? The kids of today. Then you can't make it, then you really can't make it to those people to say, "Well, here's the recession; good luck with it. There are fewer jobs and the debt has to be repaid. And here you also have the climate problems, the problems with biodiversity and the problems with food security. We didn't want to solve it. Gopekee, a recession gift and all the problems we had before the corona crisis." So you don't have to. Well, that's the good news: you don't have to. We can also now make the choices that are needed, even in the case of the packages that lie ahead. There's a brighter future. The only thing that asks for is leadership. Today there are three leaders in the cabinet. I appeal to all three of them, and as far as I am concerned, they are also going to go to the Council of Ministers, because all departments have to go to jail. There is an opportunity to set up the economy as we should have done a long time ago. Because we're exceeding the weight of the Earth. I am looking specifically at the Minister of Finance: that is as if you have already made up your annual salary at one third of the year and are going to borrow the rest of the year from someone else, namely the young people of the future. I ask him when the Netherlands has drawn up the natural resources we need for our economy every year. I'm also asking the Cabinet how much more stuff we actually need. When will it be enough? Bringing an economy within the weight of the earth is sensible and so good for the young people who will have to do it with that earth. This can therefore be done by allowing the measures to go hand in hand with the investments needed for future-proof jobs. Then I'm talking about the people who work in the fossil industry. If we know that's gonna stop, then help those people on the road to jobs in the green economy. If we now know that we have known for 25 years that agriculture in the Netherlands is unsustainable, why not switch to a food system that is sustainable for the future, so that the people who work there, especially the farmers, know where they stand and have clarity about how they can earn their living in that agriculture of the future? A good climate, clean air and food security are all core values that people need. With the job scarcity that exists today, we can also simply opt for less work. Shall we shorten the work week? Shall we lower taxes on labour? Jobs are now expensive and pollution is cheap. Something's not right there. If we value jobs, that's what everyone here is doing. You have to change that. The Party for Animals proposes to do so. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we have heard from various parties: we now have to do a number of things really differently. That's really not a long-term thing. At the moment there is a relic of neoliberal market thinking in the First Chamber. Apparently, the cabinet didn't think anything had changed with corona. The CETA Convention must and will be pushed through there too, if it is up to the cabinet. I think that's really weird. I think that's really weird. The treaty protects multinationals over people. The treaty makes it possible for us to get damages claims because of the measures that the cabinet has to take to save the climate, at least the Dutch share in it. And it throws our farmers off the bus because all the import tariffs on agricultural products from Canada, where farmers do not have to meet European standards, are simply abolished. Those who do not stop it have no right to speak when they say: we are committed to a future-proof economy in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Only when the water is low can the wrecks be seen." That is what Hans Borstlap said when he presented his report on the labour market at the beginning of this year. Who could have guessed that, a few months later, because of the corona crisis, the water is indeed very low for a lot of people in the Netherlands? We see that the people who were in a vulnerable position before the crisis are now being hit particularly hard by this crisis. Take, for example, the 3 million Dutch who have precarious jobs in the Netherlands. Then you have to think of temporary workers, call workers and zero-hour contracts, but also self-employed people without staff. You can see that they are hit hardest in this crisis. But also look at Air France-KLM. That is, after all, one of the first companies to come to the door to receive state aid. But that is also the company where all temporary workers have been out of work for weeks and one of the directors of this week feels that, in addition to his already generous salary of 9 tonnes, I think he also deserves a bonus of 8 tonnes. These are the vulnerabilities of our economy, which once again exposes this crisis very ugly. We warned the cabinet earlier, in the first aid package, that a better arrangement should be made for those people with insecure jobs. The cabinet left that behind. This means that thousands and thousands of people have already lost their jobs. Now there is a second package of support and our concerns are even greater. They're even bigger because the firing ticket disappears. We are seriously concerned that this is going to lead to many more redundancies. If the government is paying attention: the Dutch taxpayer is putting a huge amount of money, billions, into companies to take over most of the wage costs, is it reasonable that you ask companies to keep their people in service? Everyone sees that there are sectors that are disproportionately hard hit, where additional aid is needed. Then our plea is: let us help these companies extra, but not shift the risks to the people. Let us not move the risks to the workers by saying that we are setting up a system of 'preservation of employment' in the name of all things, but we also understand when this employment disappears. We don't understand that. And actually, we find that unacceptable. It's also been about the partner test for a while today. Zzp'ers face a partner test. That actually just means very simple: if you as a zzp'er have a working partner, then your support lapses. We are very concerned about this, because that is going to cause a lot ofzzp'ers problems. That you're setting something of a line, we can still go along with that. That is something we want to share. But why, I ask the Minister, should that limit be at the social minimum? Why do we actually askzzp'ers that they can no longer claim support if their partner deserves the minimum social level? That's gonna get a lot of people in trouble. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister here told me that the Netherlands is at its core deeply socialist. I already saw, and now again, some eyebrows being frowned, especially in the VVD box, right here in front of me. But apart from being politically incorrect, it is actually a bit difficult for socialism to hear that coming out of the mouth of a prime minister who has made the Netherlands deeply neoliberal. The Netherlands is a fantastic country. It's a beautiful country. And you can see that Dutch people want a country where you look at each other, where you take care of each other and where you don't get what you can get. But at the same time, in the Netherlands, we also see companies for billions of billions of dollars! Dodge taxation, while at the same time the public sector is crying out for additional colleagues. We see in the Netherlands that profits have been going through the roof over the last few years. The benefits to shareholders were huge, but people's wages and purchasing power were left behind. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a conclusion. We must come out of this crisis justly. As far as we're concerned, that's the lead. We are not going to do that by billing the people who are already in the most vulnerable position. I would therefore like to dwell today on the reduction of the tax on profits, because I do not think it can be explained that the cabinet still intends to introduce large companies, with which we are doing well; otherwise we are talking about this; otherwise you will not be making any profits to give even more tax advantage, while the Netherlands is now in a crisis. It doesn't fit and it can't. I would therefore ask the cabinet to come back to that. As far as we are concerned, this time and time after that demand solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u9	I wondered what Mrs Marijnissen thinks is the definition of 'neoliberalism'. What's that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thanks for the question. By neoliberalism, I mean everything that Prime Minister Rutte stands for. Quite specifically, it is the marketing of what is all of us, so the sacred faith in the market, the idea that the market mechanism could solve everything, above the government. I also believe that neoliberalism stands for further lowering the burden of the big companies, of the capital, of the wealthy in our country, versus that of the ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u11	Okay, so market forces for utilities, that's what you mean first, and second, less capital taxes. Are those the two things?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u12	It's all about how you set up your economy. This neoliberal cabinet believes in the so-called trickledown economy, the idea that it will end up with the people as long as it goes well with the big companies, with the most wealthy, with the most wealthy. We have seen in the past period that this thinking is bankrupt. It has been fantastic with companies in recent years. The profits were high and the benefits to shareholders were huge, but it never ended up with the people in the workplace and the people who actually made those profits. Of that neoliberal thinking, my plea is to say goodbye.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u13	How is neoliberal according to Mrs Marijnissen different from liberal? So what exactly is the fundamental difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u14	I'm a politician, so I find it interesting to put all that kind of currents next to each other. The interpretation of neoliberalism is the outspoken thinking in the market as a sacred grail for everything. That is our view as SP. We have also published a lot about this and talked about it very often in the Chamber. Let me give you a concrete example from the public sector. That's what I was talking about in my story. When I drove here this morning in the car, I heard another commercial on the radio about private education. "Do you want good education for your child? It's possible. Invest in private education, with small classes and personal attention." For my part, this is neoliberalism, market thinking at the top. The rich can arrange it. The same goes for the private neighborhood guards that you see popping up in the chic neighborhoods, while in the pauper neighborhoods the neighborhood agent has disappeared. You can see the same thing in healthcare, for example. There are excellent care farms where you can take your demented mother as long as you have money. Otherwise, you just end up in the nursing home on the corner, where two caregivers do their best to take care of 15 people. That thinking, namely that you can bring all these things to the market, is, as far as I am concerned, the bankrupt thinking of neoliberalism. It also creates a dichotomy. Maybe that's the worst part of it. It makes sure that the people who can afford it can take care of themselves. The rest of you figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u15	Is it clear now, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u16	I think it is a wrong definition of neoliberalism; I do not think that is what the word 'neoliberalism' means at all. I honestly think that there is far too little market power in the world and in the Netherlands. But if it were so that under Rutte in recent years I had to look out; I'm almost going to defend him, how do you explain that the public sector, the government, under the Rutte Cabinets, has grown tremendously and that the amount of money that goes there in total, the collective burden, has increased from about 35% to almost 40%? The public sector has therefore grown enormously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u17	It's very simple, Mr. Baudet. If you talk to someone who works in the care, education or, indeed, the police, they can tell you all that. For example, there has been competition in healthcare, which is part of market thinking. Inherent to this are commercialization and individualization. parts of neoliberalism as far as I am concerned.... but also an increase in bureaucracy. That all leads to a lot of extra time. Healthcare insurers must compete with each other, because that is market thinking. That would be efficient. This would make care better and more transparent. We still know all these promises from the introduction of market forces and health insurance companies in healthcare. None of that has gone to shit, but that aside. Those caregivers can explain all that very well. It has, however, led to a huge increase in bureaucracy in healthcare, which, of course, also increases costs. If you know that a psychologist has lost about 40% of his or her time with that bureaucracy, as research has shown, then of course it's expensive hours. So let's stop doing that. Let's give these people back control of their work. With your statement that there would be too little market power, I certainly do not agree. I believe that in recent years we have seen that market forces have simply failed in what we all are, in the public sector. Mr Baudet is going to think about it; that is something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Mr Stoffer has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u20	What did Mr. Heerma ask you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u21	I told Mr Heerma that we could also talk about neo-calvinism. But we agreed we'd do that later under the coffee, so we won't bother you with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u22	Very good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u23	"I've never been so busy. My painters are working on it and the paint shop is turning more sales than ever before." Thus the owner of the painting company where I recently bought a few canisters of paint. But the owner of the bed store, who came to deliver a bed, was much more gloomy. He had just rebuilt the store, but from April onwards his sales plummeted. I also ran into a cleaning company owner. "The offices are closed, so there is much less to clean. My people are mostly at home. Give the cabinet a compliment, because this NOW arrangement keeps me on track. I'm gonna see perspective again." You have that compliment in your pocket. Just three entrepreneurs from that multicolored palette of Dutch companies need that perspective to ensure that jobs are preserved, because that's what this is about. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet comes with an allowance for fixed charges, and that is very good, but the cabinet holds firmly to the current SBI codes. Several categories of companies are excluded, while they are affected by large turnover losses. Last Tuesday, the entire opposition supported Mr Van Haga's and I's motion to refine the list of SBI codes, but because the votes stopped, the motion was stopped. I strongly ask the Cabinet to take this up. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday there was a change in the second aid package, we saw this morning. The allowance for fixed charges is increased to €50,000. And that does more justice to the seriousness of the problem, but does not yet do justice to, for example, large construction companies that expect to lose sales in the long term. My question is: is there any work to be done on this? There is now also an anti-abuse clause in the NOW scheme. Entrepreneurs must pay a fine if they fire more than twenty people and have no agreement with the unions or, thanks to Mr Aartsen, through mediation. For a family business that has asked for support for 300 employees but has to fire 25 and therefore has not reached that agreement or mediation, that can be the last push to bankruptcy. My question is: couldn't this be more proportionate? The cabinet also wants to make agreements with municipalities and sectors on wider opening hours. I call on the Cabinet to disregard Sunday. Because now say for yourself, on Sunday the shops wide open and the church doors ajar, aren't those symptoms of a spiritual crisis? Good thing the cabinet's investing in retraining. From work to work, employees offer a perspective, but I am concerned about implementation. 50 million will be invested and online training will be deployed, but is that substantial and effective? How is the money used to actually help people change jobs? Fortunately, the NOW scheme takes more account of seasonal influences, but I see even more room for improvement. Why, for example, is the same period last year not taken as a reference? Can the additional compensation for seasonal companies not be paid before September? The Tozo has also been extended. In this respect, unlike perhaps others, we are pleased that more attention is being paid to family income, but I still have a point of interest. Secretary of State Van Ark recently promised to take a serious look at the application of the reduced hourly criterion for self-employed persons with a disability allowance. The hand-out is now going into this group, but to my surprise I do not see the adapted criterion. So my specific question is: is this going to happen? Many entrepreneurs have been granted tax deferrals. That puts things right, but at the same time it creates a heavy tax debt. My question is whether that is what payment arrangements are for. Is the Minister also considering tax relief? Now take the ODE levy, which has been greatly increased this year. Is the Minister prepared to relax this ODE tax for this year? Mr. Chairman. I started my story with confidence and perspective. In my childhood I lived close to someone who had a hard time for years. She drew her confidence and perspective from the following words of Psalm 46: "God is our refuge and strength; He is found powerfully helping in distress." If we put our trust in that God and know our responsibility for a good support package, then it can be tough and then it can get even heavier, but then it will be fine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u25	I think that word 'neoliberal' is used quite wrongly by almost everyone. Maybe we should talk about that another time. Mr. Chairman. In this corona situation we bounce from one extreme to another, from one misjudged to another false sham solution. First, the cabinet was asleep for months. While it was clear in January what would come to us, the Chamber did not want a debate to prepare our country for it. And once the virus was here, they refused to take measures for a month, allowing the virus to spread uninhibited. No short, effective lockdown of up to a few weeks in a very early stage, as we suggested, purely to restrict distribution in the rest of the Netherlands and to control it. None of that. No ventilators were entered, no additional intensivecare beds were released, no protective equipment was put in stock, and no research was carried out. Way too lax, way too slow. Then the overreaction came in the other direction. A lockdown that has been going on for nine weeks, while it hasn't lasted more than three weeks and hasn't been used effectively to get us out of it. While the cabinet continues to ban hard-working entrepreneurs from opening up their businesses normally, this year's budget deficit is up to EUR 92 billion, a staggeringly high amount. A deficit of no less than 11.2% of gross domestic product. Never in modern history was the budget deficit so high. How long must the taxpayer continue to bleed for the one-and-a-half-metre society that the cabinet wants to continue to impose on us against all rationality? Cabinet policy is therefore ineffective and irrational, too late, one way extreme, then another way extreme. The economy is far too badly damaged and freedom must not be forgotten. Freedom is incredibly restricted. The question is whether we really want to do so, what the price is for that and whether the price is not too high. According to a recent report, the much too long continuous lockdown could even have an adverse effect and possibly lead to more victims. This still separates from the indirect consequences of the social disruption and the despair caused by the long lockdown. Aerosols need to be investigated, the air ventilation systems and the influence of humidity, especially when people have to sit inside all day. Right, if they're not allowed out. Vulnerable groups must be protected, but the one and a half-meter society is not rational and inflexible. Terraces just need to open. You can make regional policy. The northern provinces have had hardly any corona contamination. There could thus have been much more open there all along than in some areas of the South. And that you can pick up food but then not eat on terraces in front of the place where you pick it up, it is impossible to explain. It's not rational. Meanwhile, the cabinet is stopping serious research into the preventive effects of hydroxychloroquine in combination with zinc, for example. It has been failing for months in the purchase of sufficient good mouth caps and then again requires the use of mouth caps that do not offer protection. It fails to regulate enough tests for infection and antibodies, so we still do not know exactly how many people in the Netherlands have had the virus. And while SMEs andzzp'ers are bleeding, while we are heading towards an unprecedented economic crisis, while tens of thousands of people are losing their jobs, they are now going to give 1 billion to Africa, do tens of billions to Southern Europe, continue with immigration and asylum from the Middle East and continue with the absurd, totally pointless, absurdly priceless and perhaps even worse, miserable climate plans. It is inexplicable; it is really in no way easy to explain what this cabinet is doing. Then there is the support package that we are discussing today. It is encouraging that the cabinet has finally taken over some of our plans. Plans we presented at the beginning of April for an intelligent exit strategy, which VNO-NCW immediately supported and SMEs directly supported the Netherlands, which Entrepreneurship Netherlands immediately supported. At last, in addition to the wage costs scheme, entrepreneurs are also being given the opportunity to partially compensate for turnover losses. That's a good step. But despite this good step, there will still be huge numbers of bankruptcies and redundancies in the near future, so we fear, if the cabinet continues with this pointless lockdown and meaningless one-and-a-half-metre society. We fear that compensation for fixed charges of up to €50,000, as announced today, will not solve the problem for the larger SMEs. Think of restaurants, gyms, theatres, event agencies and other companies that are still partly closed. What does the cabinet say to all these hard-working entrepreneurs, who see their whole business and business break down because they have to keep the doors closed for no reason? The abolition of the dismissal penalty cannot be prevented now. We cannot tell catering entrepreneurs that they are allowed to receive much less guests and at the same time that they will receive a fine if they then fire staff for which there is simply no more work. Entrepreneurs would then become hidden benefit bodies, and we should not want that. You cannot help SMEs with that. That is where we support it. But, finally, we are talking today about "the new normal." We will never accept that. A one-and-a-half-meter society is abnormal. We will never accept a covid vaccination obligation. We will never accept a massive surveillance program via the iPhone. We will never accept this, especially if we lose our freedom permanently. I said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u26	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Krol/Van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you, Mr President. It's an unprecedentedly uncertain and difficult time. In addition to the concerns about our health and those of our loved ones, the income of many hangs by a thread. It is good that the Dutch government comes to the aid and invests to overcome the crisis. However, these investments must offer real solutions by investing in sustainability, keeping people at work and those who need them. I am also talking about investing in the very vulnerable groups in this crisis, because 200,000 workers were already living below the poverty line before the crisis. Solutions are farther away than ever. The people with a flex contract deserve a lot more protection. Thezzp'ers, including many forcedzzp'ers, are awake from the money worries. What do they get? Nothing above the social minimum. There's also a partner test in case your partner still has a job, but how much longer? That partner test needs to go overboard. There is an age discrimination in the soberzzp income compensation, namely for olderzzp's from the AOW age. This is particularly problematic for people with incomplete AOW. Can temporary bridging measures also be opened up to them? Any freelancer, regardless of age, should be entitled to assess the individual situation. No one should be excluded in advance. Mr. Chairman. Then all those people who have already suffered blows, but do essential work, for example the people in care. Why is my adopted motion on a health care worker bonus not part of this package? When is this gonna happen? Then there are the people who are difficult to get back to work after they have been discharged, even if things get better in the future. Why is the possibility of early retirement not part of the plans? These are long-term solutions, for the future, including those for young people, who are now often excluded from the scheme and who have to live up to a few hundred euros. Mr. Chairman. Jobs remain expensive and pollution remains cheap, especially now that sustainable entrepreneurship needs to be promoted, supported and subsidised. Only in this way can the purchasing power of ordinary citizens be preserved, while we can make our economy more sustainable at a rapid pace. But how can it be if large polluters are economically assisted with public money and small businesses with an important place in tomorrow's Netherlands, not enough to survive the crisis? How can this be achieved if the government contributes only 50 million to retraining people who lose their jobs and their income for "from work to work"? Can this amount be adjusted upwards in proportion if necessary? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. I don't believe it, but is there a need for a two-minute suspension? Five minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u29	I see the Minister of Economic Affairs is starting. How did you divide the subjects among yourselves? Maybe it's good to know. It is also good to know that six questions can also be asked in the government's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u30	After a brief introduction, I would like to address the questions on the second package as far as EZK is concerned. Various questions have been asked about all kinds of aspects of "what's next?'. That's what I'll do next. Then Mr Koolmees comes up with all the regulations and issues in the field of Social Affairs. All matters relating to public finances will be dealt with by Mr Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u31	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. One thing we know then is that it has been remembered several times: that V-shaped recession has not become it. The first emergency package, in that sense, was an emergency package that was the magic word in it "fast." It had to be fast, otherwise a lot of companies would fall down. That was fast, and in this case it was also rudimentary. There were arrangements that, if you had had six months of time, would certainly not have been justifiable, but had to in the short time. Anyway, it was gross. We have now come to the end of this emergency package, and we now know that one in five members of our workforce is dependent in one way or another on government support. One in five. We also know that the first package was not perfect in every way. We've seen it come along: seasonal work, capital costs, starters, growthers, flex; we know that. So we did give ourselves an order for that second package. There were two assignments for that second package. The first is to make it more targeted and more proportional. For one known example, we have made a concession for fixed charges which were not dependent on the size of the company, which was not dependent on which part of those operating costs are actually fixed charges and which also did not take account of the fall in turnover. That's kind of rudimentary. So: more focused and more proportional. The second one's next. We know, now that it's not a sharp V, the world's gonna look different. Sometimes that is temporary and sometimes that is structural, not so much because whole new planets have occurred in our solar system but because developments that have actually been going on have accelerated. A lot of developments have accelerated. The reality is not exactly what we are used to yesterday, and companies need to be able to adapt to it. That goes both ways. We ask them to think about it: what does your company, your sector look like later? But we also need to give room to organise this in a sensible way. That is the subject of the second package. Some questions have been asked about that, and I'll be there in a minute. But with that second package, and with our desire for more precision, more focus and more proportionality, it remains that it is not possible to compensate for everything for everyone and that in many cases tailor-made work is not possible either. I am talking about fixed charges, yes, taking into account the size of the company, this and that, but that is also all on the basis of sector averages. That's still a little rough. Real customization is impossible if you have more than 100,000 entrepreneurs who somehow assist you with a support package. You're not gonna sit at the kitchen table with all those 100,000 entrepreneurs. So we need a certain degree of realism there, and I can taste that realism here. Everyone understands it's an extremely complex organization. But it means that precision is not infinite. The second thing I must stress is that we do not pay for everything either. That might be possible, mostly Modo, but it's not the choice. Larger companies will have more responsibilities than smaller ones. In the case of labour costs, for understandable reasons, we go further than in the case of fixed charges, because labour costs are directly linked to jobs that might otherwise disappear immediately, while in the case of fixed charges, this is more nuanced. So there too: no, it's not the full pound. It is possible in almost all areas to ask a very sensible question: why not more? Why not higher? More sectors? A higher cap, even for larger companies? Those are all legitimate questions. We've drawn boundaries. This means that not everything ends up with the taxpayer. Yeah, there's still raffle edges and white spots.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u33	The realism that cannot do everything indeed lives with everyone, I think, as the Minister rightly says. Everyone still understands that it is different for large companies than for small companies. But those raffle edges of yours, they're a little worse for some people than a raffle edge. I have already mentioned it in the interruption to the colleague of the VVD: look at the zzp'ers, for example. They don't just have a raffle edge, they go all the way through the ice. Imagine: twozzp'ers who both had an income and are now unable to work because of the crisis. They get the social minimum. They get €1,500 and if it is less, they get it supplemented by the assistance. Again, that employee gets 100% just paid back, if his company gets 90% of the wage costs reimbursed for a maximum turnover loss. You can't do that for all groups. For these self-employed people, thezzp'ers, you really made a mistake. Are you prepared to admit that you made a mistake for these people and that you should at least delete that partner test?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u34	I heard Mr Wilders ask that question in the first place. Kool-Tit will answer this later. Let me just put it on the equestrian side. It is, of course, also a choice not to give everyone everything. This is true for companies, and it is true in many areas. It is also a policy to immediately pass time to expect more from entrepreneurs with regard to adapting their business model and finding other assignments. We can't do that in one go and that's why this emergency package in size is suspiciously similar to the first package. We'll have to work towards that. We are moving towards a future in which, at some point, we can see that the taxpayer is not going to solve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u35	But you could have made other choices. With the NOW one gets a fee of labour costs up to three times average, I think. How much is that, like $95,000? Again, thatzzp'er gets nothing if his partner has an income of more than €1.550. I'm not a big fan of leveling, but you could have said: I'm gonna go with that employee twice and what I win with that is so fair. I'm gonna give you that zzp'er who has nothing and often comes up with a supplement of the assistance at €1.550. That would have been a more reasonable proposal. Everyone would have understood that. I think that entrepreneurs and people with three modes had also understood it. Now there are hundreds of thousands, almost half a million people, who are completely out of the boat. That's not fair!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u36	The question has been asked and, again, it will be addressed shortly. I think that we are in a situation where all individual requests are reasonable, but the sum for the taxpayer is no longer reasonable. That is why we have to ask ourselves where the limit is in all the regulations. That is what I dare to say, in almost all cases, at a point where I do not always feel comfortable, because I must be able to look all these entrepreneurs in the eye. I do, but I know that we do not pay for everything and that a large number of entrepreneurs still feel problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u37	Finally, on this point. I totally disagree with the removal of that discharge, as you know. Apart from that, I think you serve a lot of people, including entrepreneurs, reasonably. You use them with up to €50,000 for the fixed charges and you get up to a large amount of 90% of the wage costs. It can always be more, but these are not, on balance, unreasonable proposals. Apart from the dismissal penalty, there is a second proposal which is very unreasonable. Those are thosezzp'ers, because there's not the difference between 90% and 80%, but there's the difference between something they got and what they don't get anymore. That difference is too great. I know that the Minister for Social Affairs is about that, but you just came to the choices, so I think I can ask you the question as well. It would be fair for the cabinet to reconsider whether it could not do more for those self-employed people than it is now. That is preferably the deletion of the partner test. It may also be that they are being supplemented into a fashion or something else, but at least a little more than now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u38	I heard the statement. We shall come back to that later in the debate. Mr President, then the emergency package. Before going into all kinds of detailed questions, I would like to commend the Chamber for the debate which has also raised all kinds of fundamental questions that are one level of abstraction higher: not about regulations, but about social effects and about the greater choices. Let me mention one that has been mentioned twice in the debate: the relationship between loans and grants. That's important. Who do you want something from, to what extent can that happen and to what extent? In this emergency package, liquidity is to a very large extent used, i.e. loans. First of all, that's what we do from the banks. In part, this is done with government guarantees, partly by banks on their own initiative, on top of their normal loan portfolio. Banks have pumped some 12 billion more debt into the economy. In the first part alone, the Tax Administration has pumped more than 30 billion in liquidity into the economy. That therefore exceeds the amount of aid. I am convinced that there is also a limit to liquidity. If you are serious about maintaining employment, maintaining the economic structure and ensuring that companies can start up again, then there is also a limit to what you can do about liquidity. There's a minimum of what you need to do about support. In addition, incentives also apply. Part of that support is not to make shareholders rich or to make companies, no, it is to make it acceptable for companies to keep people in service, even if there is no turnover for it. That's important, because it's about those people. You're gonna fix that with support. You don't solve it with liquidity. You can't tell a company you don't have a job for all these people, but please keep them in service, then you get a loan. We have to be realistic. It consists of both, but the loan piece is larger than the aid piece. Another fundamental question was asked only by Mr Azarkan: why so generic? He said: I see a lot of generic regulations, but shouldn't you make more arrangements for sectors where they are? That's just the interesting thing about the way it's done generically, which is revenue-dependent. The scheme applies in proportion to the loss of turnover. There may be sectors that could in principle be entitled to all kinds of aid, but if there is no loss of revenue, no aid will go. That is the way it should be, because you want to provide support where it is needed and not where it is not necessary. I also found the point Mr Segers raised very interesting. I paraphrase it in my own way, but he asked the "for what, hear what" question. He said: there are now all kinds of companies that receive support, but you may wonder what they have actually done in the past. They have actually, implicitly and afterwards, had some kind of insurance. But where was the bounty? That is a real question. He mentioned a fund, or it could be some kind of insurance or guarantee. But I think we should stay practical here, too. Look, if you're gonna put it in a fund, next to the pension fund, you're gonna have to fill a fund of.............................................................................................................. At least most insurers know what they're insuring. We don't know that. Once every ten or fifteen years a black swan comes along and we don't recognize it and we don't know how to guarantee it. We don't know. So fund formation and insurance are complicated. But he also implicitly asked the question a bit in a different way. Don't you just want companies to behave properly before they qualify for all kinds of public arrangements? That's the "for what, hear what" question in a different way. My first reaction to this was just a moment ago, and that is still my reaction: we in this country think that companies should always behave properly. For that, we have laws, but not just laws. We also have corporate governance. We also have all kinds of rules on taxation. We hunt companies that do tax avoidance; that is strictly taken according to the law, but not according to the intention of the law. So we in the Netherlands go so far as to follow the intention of the law, but we add to that with corporate governance. We have made this much stricter lately. Because we in this country believe that everyone should behave properly. And then we also think that if a black swan comes along, we have to help each other out of the public interest. Do we have to help the companies? Not even that, actually. We help the employees to keep their jobs, to remain in service and to maintain an income. That is our focus and from that thought the "for what, hear what" question is again in order. Because the people who continue to keep an income or a job are the same people who have contributed to collectivity in the past, in a variety of ways: social, through voluntary work and through income and tax payments. That would be my preliminary answer. But I mention this at the very beginning, because I think it is an extremely relevant question, which you could still have a two-hour debate on. But I would like to do Mr Segers, because of the time, short now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u39	I'd love to have that debate. But it is a long-term debate and we can have it at all kinds of other times. It would be nice if there would be a first exploration of what that actually is. The government already has a fundamentally different position with regard to business in this crisis than it does in normal times. Of course, the fact that consideration is being given to indenting when it comes to solvency, for example, is unprecedented. It therefore calls for a new reflection. It would be very strange for us to say, in this crisis, that we have learned nothing. It would be very strange if we did not now see something that we say: we really need to learn lessons from this. Let me take out one element, namely the relationship between equity and debt. We deal with them differently in tax terms. It's healthy to have equity and to have that level. Couldn't that be an element that we're reducing the difference in tax treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u40	There is a fiscal aspect to this and I would like to leave that question to the Secretary of State for Finance. There is also a buffer aspect, because if you have own funds at zero, then in principle the outsiders can apply for bankruptcy. But, apart from that relationship between equity and debt, of course, you want the outsiders to understand that they are also, in fact, equity providers, and that they are part of that Rhineland model. They also benefit from keeping that company in the air. That's what we're seeing parties do now. The owner of a property now also lowers the rent, and in many cases puts it at a much lower amount or at zero, because he also understands that we work in a chain. Foreign exchange providers also know that if they ring the bell now, they have nothing. So we also know that everyone is in the same boat and that both own and debt contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u41	This is based on a kind of good will and a kind of reasonableness which I also hope for, but which we do not always see in practice. It is also the cabinet itself, which, of course, has taken steps and says: we are expecting something about bonus policy and we are expecting something about dividend payments. Of course, criteria have been set by the cabinet itself, already in this package. So it's not too crazy to look forward for a moment and say: could something we already ask for during the crisis also be a long-term condition? And if we could do that, too, long enough to announce it, in a very reasonable way, wouldn't that be a salutary exercise to reconsider? What is a healthy, good business, in which you have all the freedom, but in which we really underline that Rhineland model and that mutual responsibility that we now experience and which we now call upon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u42	Then my invitation to Mr Segers is in the opposite direction: the question of which specific things do not belong to that responsible entrepreneurship and which we have in no way incorporated into laws and regulations and into our structures for corporate governance, for example. I do not think we should do that in this debate, because then the President is starting to look very ugly, but perhaps that is how we should have this debate: where does it go wrong? That's how we're gonna do it. There is another question from Mr Segers. That is a question that goes much deeper: why not more? Mr Segers pointed out that there are chains: the hairdresser does, but the hairdresser wholesaler does not. Apart from the fact that hairdressers are probably getting their sales now, I only see Mr Klaver as a candidate, but for the rest the turnover has worked out well, I think the chain demand is a reasonable one. That has not been met in all cases. That's true. At the same time, there is also a limit here. There's a story for every sector. If we were to take all sectors of the economy, it would roughly cost 4 or 5 billion more. Those are very high amounts. And then I always have to have the conversation in my head not only with the company that gets it, but also with the taxpayer who pays it. Then I'm really in the middle of something. So we've kept it limited here; not all sectors are in it. This is true of these fixed loads; with the NOW, the big boy, the real muscle, all sectors are included, but not all sectors are included in the fixed burden regulation. That is right; there are also choices on which to base. However, precisely because some sectors are not included, such as the manufacturing industry which is not included in the fixed cost scheme, we have stretched the NOW scheme. Mr Koolmees will say something about this in a moment. The aim is to do something extra and also indirectly to contribute to these fixed costs, because the need is seen in itself. Mr Segers also asked a question similar to Mr Stoffer: are we paying close attention to refinement? Because the execution is always gross; it is based on codes. The first question is always: do those codes fully connect? The computer needs to understand these codes, so you're stuck with codes where you sometimes see that under one code there's really a bay of different things. But the other question is: does a company have the right code? Well, the answer is no, he doesn't always have a company. There have been more than 20,000 reports from companies where the code does not fit. That is why we are making every effort to correct it. So that's being treated. There are thousands of entrepreneurs who have now been given access to this old TOGS scheme, but because a new scheme must also be subject to coding, we are happy to continue doing so. One of the examples mentioned by the Secretary of State of EZK was the difference between the hot bakers and the cold bakers. Those are things you're dying to deal with. We are trying to deliver that customization, but we do want to keep a measure because the taxpayer ultimately pays it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u43	This sounds good. We also recently discussed the example of hot and cold bakers with the Secretary of State. There was also the example that companies do have the good code, namely supermarkets and camping shops that are also just supermarkets. The regular supermarkets have it well, but the camping shops stand still or almost completely still. When I asked whether they should go bankrupt, the answer was: yes, it is too difficult to find out. Is that sophistication that maybe the code is good and that you can make it a code point A and point B? I'd like a little more customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u44	Where that can be done, the Secretary of State of EZK is busy working on it. She can be extremely enthusiastic about that. If someone can put pressure on the execution and things that did not seem possible might now become possible, then she certainly plays a major role in that. But I warn you, with this I am trying to protect her and not to raise unreasonable expectations that some things do not go into execution. We simply cannot do that. It is about too many entrepreneurs in too wide a variety. We're doing what we can, I say with conviction, but we're not doing what we can't. Some entrepreneurs will experience this as very acidic and I agree with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u45	Of course, I want to prevent us from naming every category now, but I am making it very specific with the camping shops. They're a real pain in the ass. Is that gonna work now or can't it? What category is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u46	I don't know. Let me do it differently. Let me take the question that is now being asked as an incentive and go back with it. But I say, if it doesn't work out, then a "no" comes out. I don't know that in this case, so I'm not ahead of an answer. I'll take it as an incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have heard that when Mr Wiebes gets a challenge, he goes on until he solves it. So I'm relying on that. But what if it doesn't work? Can I get back why I can't? 'Cause I can't go back with just "it doesn't fit any coding." I really want a substantive answer. Can I count on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u48	The arrangements will be further developed. That's what communications are about to come to the Chamber. I'll make sure that this kind of thing is included in it. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr Van Aartsen has asked whether there is also a specific examination of how capital-intensive companies are dealt with in a way that has a permanent loss of turnover. That commitment has indeed been made. They're still looking into it. Mr Van Aartsen also pointed out that the allowance also included fixed charges as turnover... What did I say? From Aartsen? Look, I'm making him chicer, a treat by Mr. Aartsen in this room. He was right to point out that the allowance also includes fixed charges as turnover in the NOW scheme. That's right, and we know it. This cannot be restored in the implementation of the NOW scheme. All the arrangements have yet to be worked out. We're still running into bottlenecks everywhere. This is also being looked at, but I am not getting ahead of what is possible. I've learned that if you're going to freestyle about execution and all kinds of issues that have to do with each other and interlock, you're soon going the wrong way. Meanwhile, the ceiling has been raised. This is already better served by larger SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you for the Minister's reply. It does make sense, doesn't it? I also gave it as an example. We also saw in the first package that there are always points in implementation and in practice. Compliments to the cabinet for how it has always picked that up in the first package and looked at what can and cannot be done. Thank you for the commitment to take a good look at this. This is one, but there will be many more things. It would be a shame to make it political every time. Let's just move along and look at those entrepreneurs with an open mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u52	Furthermore, Mr Asscher pointed out that there was also a challenge for sectors which were still closed until 1 September or who knows. We know that, of course, financial support from the public authorities will come to an end at some point. But we also know that all kinds of companies and sectors need to look for new earning models. They could use a little support for that, too. Maybe we should start organizing pilots for new earning models. That is really felt in the cabinet as a concern, which we also have to deal with. But it is not all to be solved with money either, because sometimes you want to use the ingenuity of the entrepreneurs in the sector to make it something else. To continue with something that society no longer asks for is even more painful for those people. Then you ended up in some kind of subsidised prison, and you don't want to. So that's the way it is. I acknowledge the concern and see that something must be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u53	Let me come back to a point the Minister made earlier. That was about, for example, the partner test forzzp'ers in the Tozo. The Minister made a more general point, namely: we have to make choices; we cannot do everything at once, because we also have to pay a little attention to how we spend the money. I fully agree with that. It's just good to explain why you're making what choices. It took a while, because I had to look up the numbers: how much money are we talking about when it comes to this Tozo? That's about 700 million dollars. That's part volume effect... fewer people claim it, because parts of the economy are reopening... and part the partner test. So first the question of what exactly this distribution looks like must be answered. That's where the cabinet takes a saving. But on the other hand, yesterday there was a little bit of a lack of people, I know, decided to allow the NOW scheme to last another month. That's gonna cost a lot more money. In other words, the choices made by the cabinet in which group it supports and does not support it, and in what way, the logic is not always easy to follow. I'm looking at what's happening to thesezzp'ers right now. We know that the budgetary hold on the total... Six months ago we said: this is a huge budget. Now we say: this is actually very limited. We know that this is going to hit a large group hard, because only the social minimum is being considered. Then why the choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u54	How it is to be justified by each scheme versus the amount, that is what each of the directors deals with for their own scheme. But the general line is the same for both measures, both in the partner test and in the four months. This is a time when we need to think again about how to do it on our own. We have taken those four months because we want more time to set it up with social partners as well. There are a lot of things to do, including in the area of the labour market, which my colleague will be discussing later. With an arrangement like the Tozo it is also step by step back to normal, but certainly not now to normal. It doesn't have all kinds of keys and stuff. We are slowly trying to get to a situation where we will be able to do it without the support of the taxpayer. That's the logic behind both. That's this phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u55	So I fully agree with the strategy, but I do not understand the implementation. On the one hand, you're not just going through that NOW scheme for three months without real adjustments, but actually four months. I get that. That makes sense, because we need to support people in their income. That Tozo scheme forzzp'ers was also meant to support people in their income. And you do make the choice to actually make it much stricter, because you look at the partner's income. I therefore believe that, in the logic of phasing out the measures, a clear distinction is made between these self-employed and those who are employed. I don't get it. We know very well that there is a category ofzzp'ers that makes a lot of money and for those who do not need it at all they wouldn't have to apply for it either, but that the majority of thezzp'ers are having a very hard time. Often there are two of them, or someone has a small income next to them. Those people are getting into a lot of trouble right now. In view of the budgetary attachment and the government's logic in the payment of wages, it would therefore be entirely logical to say that we are continuing this Tozo arrangement as it was, and that partner test is going to go away, at least for the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u56	I now take half of the story, namely that we are in any case agreed that this period should be used to move gradually back to a situation where we can do it without the help of the taxpayer. But then Mr Klaver is still too well aware of the balance of this particular scheme. He'll hear it from the Minister of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u57	On this point as well: I asked in my plenary contribution why we are paying up to €9,500 for paid employees, i.e. to almost €10,000, while we look so hard with a partner test at what azzp'er is losing and that is about to stop at €1,500. Up there you get nothing at all if you have a partner who earns more than that amount. What justifies that difference? If two people earn nearly €10,000 as a family, they get almost €20,000, of which €18,000 is paid by the taxpayer. Then this cabinet says, "We're cool with that." But to someone who is azzp'er and has a partner who earns more than €1,500, let's say: he is the partner of a nurse and works as a communication consultant, but doesn't have a job at the moment, we say: no, you're not getting anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u58	There is a difference. When you're in employment, you're really trying to get an entrepreneur to keep a job in the air. We wanted to do that this way; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u59	I read that you're doing it this way. I don't need you to explain that. My question is what is the justification for not doing that capping with the group of people who are employed and indeed earning up to nearly €10,000. Why is this capping happening? That could have been $15,000. There are also people who earn €15,000 per month. We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u60	No, but when you say that the employees should settle for a lower income, you're actually forcing dismissal, because their contract of employment says otherwise. This is a completely different situation. They're people with a contract of employment. We want that job to stay in the air. We have an arrangement that is not aimed at making companies richer, but at ensuring that those people remain in service. And yes, this is their employment. I do not know whether Mr Azarkan is proposing to cut the employee's income. And who's that in that company? Which employee is involved in what turnover loss? I do not know whether that is the proposal that Mr Azarkan is making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u61	The proposal I'm making is that it's just not justifiable. As two earners together, let's say, earn €12,000 to €13,000, the employer is subsidised for six to seven months up to €9,500 90%. With an zzp'er we say: if your partner earns more than €1,500, you simply get nothing at all. I just don't think I can explain that. You can also say that we are living in a crisis where people are not supposed to earn €10,000, but that we are, for example, closing it down twice? If a company thinks someone up there should get something, it can supplement it itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u62	The two arrangements that Mr Azarkan now compares are both in the domain of SZW. The Minister of SZW is about to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u63	Then we'll wait and see. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u64	The future. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg asked what the next phase would be like. In other areas, too, several spokesmen have asked: how to proceed? I think the first thing you're thinking about is that these entrepreneurs, all those companies, are able to adapt to a new reality. It won't change for everyone. Sometimes it also springs back to what we are used to, but in a lot of cases it doesn't. First of all, we have to expect all kinds of innovations in sectors. An economy is changing, and it has accelerated it. We should not forget that: it is not the government that is going to come up with the new business models; it is not the government that has that kind of ingenuity. But that's one. The second is that, far before this started, we discussed a growth strategy: what is needed to increase our earning capacity? The need for this has only increased. According to many analyses, our earning capacity has been dented at least permanently, but perhaps on a multiannual basis. In the first few years we are still some percentage, at least some percentage, below what we found a calm basic path six months ago. At the time, I thought that was inadequate and a little too calm. That's what we're under now and for some time to come. That's just income. I keep saying: income is not just about money; income is also happiness. That's what we're under. So we need to work on our earning ability to maintain all these arrangements in this society, to meet our goals and also to ensure that all those who work for them get a little bit more every year. We need to work on our earning ability. This includes the labour market. Mr Segers asked me very harshly: are we going to do something with all the sensible opinions that lie ahead? Yeah, that's all part of it. This growth strategy is broad: it goes from accessibility to education innovation and employment participation. That's all in there. But also important is the smooth running of these transitions. I often say it: the molecules fly around us. We need to control it again, from CO2 to nitrogen. There we have big, big transitions running. That's what we have to do. That should also increase our earning capacity. That is what my third point, of course, is about an investment fund. That too has become no less urgent; even more so, it has become more urgent. If there are things you want to give an impetus to, just from the public interest, in view of the earnability of the future, not yesterday's, then you want to put resources against it. Now it is true that we want to look at it, not only in terms of the country and the economy, but also in terms of the state finances in turbulent times. The plan is not gone, but with Princess' Day there will be further reports. Then we can, more than we do now, put a bow around how that is all justified. But that plan is not off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u65	"The plan is not gone." I had made an appeal to think mainly in "just now" and not in "not right now." The Minister's answer is a bit in-between. If, six months ago, before the corona crisis, we thought that the investment fund was important, that it would be wise to lead our country to the future stronger and more innovative, then I assume that is what we think today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u66	Sure. That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u67	My point is that the urgency is even greater than it already was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u68	Sure, mine too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u69	I was surprised by the answer "we're gonna see if budgetary adjustment is possible." Maybe that's not what I meant, but that's how I really interpreted the Minister's words. My question is whether the Minister can guarantee me that we will not automatically return to the old normal. Can I say to parents from Amstelveen whose children no longer suffer from asthma, no, we are not going back to grey growth? Are we not going to stop another flood of excess ETS rights from happening in Brussels, because now the economy is failing and we are going to push it after us for years again? The Minister and I know that last time it got in the way of greening. Can the Minister tell me that this is an opportunity, and that the cabinet that is also going to take to kick that ball, the renewal that is now ready, into the goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr Van Weyenberg needs a lot of words to agree with me on this fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u71	That's always with Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u72	He will also see that its precise mechanics are still subject to all kinds of waves that are now going over public finances. The intention is precisely that: it has become not less important, but more important. Then what makes more sense, if you are working on the earning ability of the future, to take into account that earning ability, which is not a gray earning ability, but that should be more sustainable earning ability? And if you're still investing, what makes more sense than doing it in a way that you didn't declare unnecessary in ten years' time? Mrs Ouwehand also mentioned it. I would also like to say in her direction: where there are government impulses to increase earning power and to restart the economy, it is logical to combine it with greening where that can be done. I also say that where that is not useful, or counterproductive, or where it does not matter, it cannot be done. If a company is in serious liquidity problems, then there is little point in obliging that company to set up a solar park at that time, because then you are back to square one. But I think we all understand that very well from each other. Mrs Ouwehand sees that, too. If you know that the economy, industry and energy supply are going to look different, then it is useful not to promote public funding now that goes against this. That makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u73	Yet that point of the investment fund. I think Mr Van Weyenberg has a point to make when he talks about offering prospects to get out of here in a moment. We now have the second package. The Minister has already indicated once, in a television programme, that we must invest out of the crisis. In my view, then, it is indeed the conclusion that this fund will only become more important and that these investments will only become more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u74	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u75	Is it not wise, then, to suggest, in good time, that before this aid package ends, at least with a direction, an investment agenda, so that the entrepreneurs who are now in the process of thinking about the question "what am I doing with my business model, which way am I going in that new society', what is the government's investment agenda? So can the cabinet come forward with an investment agenda before the end of this package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u76	Let me put it this way. From the point of view of public finances, it is wise to see how this is going. But we are well aware here behind this table that it has only become more important, not because we have to work out of a cyclical dip, but because we have a structural need for greater earning capacity, which requires investment. Now I know that in the various groups the word 'investment' sometimes has a different ring to it, but I mean investment. Thank you. And if the timing comes up against the insight into public finances, the Minister of Finance will soon tell us how and why he thinks the timing is the way it is. But I expect he will also say that it has not become more unimportant but just more important to drive the earning ability. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you for the Minister's reaction that it is not wise to invest in a sector that you know will have to look different. I do have a question. The Minister himself talked about the transition in which agriculture would then be in because of nitrogen. The cabinet itself has said that livestock must shrink. We read in the agricultural press, which I follow closely, that there is a very strong pressure on the Ministry of Agriculture to come up with money. Can the Minister say here that, given the need to shrink livestock, there can be no money to keep those livestock alive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u78	Pressure from whom, on whom, on a colleague who is not here right now, about a sector that is not on the agenda right now; I think it is a very complicated question. May I comment on Mrs Ouwehand's first remark in passing? I'll surprise her there. We obviously have an opposite view of that. Mrs Ouwehand says that it is not useful to invest in a sector that is going to have to look different. I think it is useful to invest in a sector that needs to look different, because it will not look different. Maybe we'll agree on that after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u79	We agree on that. Especially if the investment is needed to help the sector through a transition, then we understand each other well. It's beautiful. But, of course, there is no need for investment or support for a sector that needs to shrink, at least not without the condition that you shrink. I understand that the Minister of EZK says that he is not about agriculture, but that is the time here. The whole time. These agricultural issues, the problems in the slaughterhouses, that they are corona fireplaces: the representatives of the cabinet simply do not go into them. While that agricultural lobby is incredibly powerful. They have received 600 million for the ornamental farming sector; the cultural sector is only 300. Hello! Let's take a look at these questions. Let me get back to those questions. If livestock farming is to shrink in the Netherlands, then it can't be that way. I'd like to have it clear today that money is going to go there without the condition that that shrinkage becomes structural, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mrs Ouwehand is well served in the cabinet, because a Minister of Agriculture has come, in particular,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u81	And it never comes to these debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u82	... especially to speak to her on this subject. Then to turn to the minister who knows the least about animals from everyone in the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u83	The cabinet has it easy too, because when we ask for the Minister of Agriculture in these debates, the coalition always says no. But then, of course, MEPs in trade union K will have to answer the questions in her area. I'm starting to get a little tired of it all the time that it's something like: I have a note here, I don't know, I'm just reading something. Of course, the agreements aren't like that either. This minister can simply say that it is not a sensible investment. Otherwise, the Minister of Finance will have to answer that question later. If those livestock have to shrink, because we have huge targets and a huge transition to achieve, then no package of money can go there without the condition that the livestock is shrinking, structuralally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u84	We don't have portfolios for nothing. I would like to confess to Mrs Ouwehand that I am keeping this wallet in the air and that the working day ends when the next one has already started. I'm not adding the LNV Secretary's wallet. I would give precise answers to her questions with great love, but I simply cannot do that. If she wants the Minister of LNV to come to the Chamber, she must call the Minister of LNV to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u85	But this point comes back to all the debates, so I would like to support Mrs Ouwehand a little, because that question is parked somewhere every time. Perhaps you will discuss the questions with your colleague, but this is not the first time that Mrs Ouwehand has raised them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u86	I actually don't know the answer to her question. It's not a question of will, but I can't answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u87	Yeah, but I just want to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u88	I take it all very seriously, but I don't know the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u89	I'm going to help the Minister of EZK. The Minister of Finance still has to go. He can now call the Minister of LNV and say: questions are being asked in your area; what are we going to say? Then maybe we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u90	In the second term, that could be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u91	We'll see. I hope that the Minister for Finance has correctly noted the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u92	But you know all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u93	No, I just said I don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u94	But I'm serious. There's always a laugh about it, but it's a serious question and it comes back every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u95	In all honesty. If a question on climate policy were to be asked to a colleague of mine, I do not think it would be helpful for that colleague to come out. It's the other way around. This is complex matter. I don't know the answers in LNV's field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u96	No, but it's really been mentioned a few times and it's getting a little embarrassing. But you'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u97	Then a question from Mr Heerma, who mentioned reshoring. I think that more generally the question of production chains is on the agenda. This is not an issue that the government can solve at all, but in this society we have to ask ourselves about it. What are we doing here? What are we doing elsewhere? How happy are we in all areas with the just-in-time principle? That was first applied in Japan and made up by an American, but we do this all over the world. How do we ensure that, if we only have one source for a particular component, we don't stop if that one component doesn't come? Those questions should initially be asked by the managers of the production chain themselves. In the meantime, however, there are all geopolitical issues involved. That was the case before the crisis. There are trade disputes. So that question is pretty broad. I think reshoring has a very different effect and a very different meaning for all sectors. In healthcare, you will probably move on to identify at European level what you absolutely want to have, while for other chains you may be able to switch to dual sourcing, or say: is it such a disaster that certain products are not delivered if there is a problem? I can imagine that this is very different from one production chain to another. I think reshoring is an important issue, also because there are many societal questions about it. It's complicated. There's a lot of things going on. In general, I think it's a nice idea to take a broader look at it. It's not something you do fast. How you do that and who you ask exactly: I don't know if we should put that on corona. It's actually playing wider. Also for the corona crisis, the reshoring demand in many areas was quite topical. So allow me to think about that for a moment, but I think that sensible people should look at this question for once. Bon! I think I've run out of questions on my property.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u98	I asked if the date of entry is no longer a problem. A lot of employers were just outside the NOW because a date was planned, or because they had taken over a company and therefore had no monthly income and so on. Is that problem solved with the new package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u99	Is it okay if the NOW question is answered by the Minister of SZW? Then Mrs Van Brenk gets a better answer than when I have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u100	However, I would like to mention the conditions we have just mentioned. When it comes to supporting individual companies, the cabinet looks at reciprocity, the Rhineland model and long-term value creation. Those are quite a few general concepts. What exactly am I supposed to imagine? What are the criteria you use when choosing whether or not to help companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u101	I don't know if we should set it up that way. That's a big question for me. We expect sensible behavior in all kinds of areas. A lot of sensible behaviour is just at the company's own expense and risk. If it depends on a source in an international production chain and he doesn't get his stuff, then he has a problem. That's true, but I don't know if it's possible to say: oh, then you won't get any support. Maybe he'll say, "There are no more sources in the world." So that's going to be a very complicated application for aid. So I don't know if we should make that link. I think we should call on companies in all kinds of areas to act wisely. Furthermore, we simply have laws, corporate gongvernance and so on and we are very strict in the Netherlands and we are all satisfied with that. We made that together, and everyone always has to stick to it. However, I find it difficult to consider whether 100 000 companies receiving support in one way or another have done enough dual sourcing. You put that together, you're gonna be in big trouble, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u102	But I'm asking for something you wrote yourself. These are the criteria you have written down: long-term value creation, Rhineland model and reciprocity. These are concepts that lead us to look at whether or not individual companies are helping. So we are not talking about generic schemes, we are talking about individual companies, so we are talking about customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u103	Oh, wait a minute, so it's about customization, about that handful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yeah, that handful. In addition, you say that we have a number of criteria and that there is a legal framework for anything, but we still believe that there is a form of activity, for example in terms of moderate development and a good relationship between employers and employees, which you say is crucial and vital. My question then is how to make that concrete. What is the concreteisation of these rather general criteria which the cabinet uses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u105	Clear. Now I understand what we're talking about. Hopefully that should be about a handful of companies, although lately it has been very busy at my desk. Unfortunately, the answer to this is also quite simply tailor-made. We are very strict towards anyone who can call himself a shareholder or a foreign equity provider in that company. It would be crazy if public intervention were to make shareholders or outsiders richer, because that is not the purpose. The aim is to maintain the company and the jobs. At the same time, we want to look at this company in a variety of areas and sometimes make additional demands. Then we can say that until now it has been done so and so, but we do not think this is a responsible way of working. In that case, we will indeed make demands on departure arrangements, bonuses, dividends and so on. Then it may also be that, for example, the involvement of the Secretary of State for Finance requires that tax structures be chosen that fall within the meaning of the law. That kind of thing can all occur, but it is very difficult to have a general rule for it because there is a bay of constructions. In any case, we are fully motivated to ensure that we maintain as much valuable employment as possible with as little public money as possible. I also refer to public targets. That's all in the letter. Where additional requirements need to be imposed because that is reasonable in that case, we do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u106	Your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u107	Yes, my last question on this point. I think we've reached the exact same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u108	Yeah, I bet you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u109	We are indeed at the point where we say: there is therefore a form of activity that we would like to support because it is a good job and it is a really good undertaking, and there are also forms where there are good questions to ask about. And I would very much like to have that conversation for a future. What exactly is that, then, and what is the concretization of those three, nevertheless quite large abstract concepts? I'd like to talk about that. That was my proposal. Perhaps I would also like to table a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u110	I also believe that it is possible that in the coming months there will be a case-of-coffee situation on the basis of which we could test this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the office is cleaned and then the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment gets the floor. Keep a little distance, because otherwise I get a lot of emails about it, and rightly so. Oh, you're always in quarantine. I hear the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment now saying: we are one household. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u112	I'm way too bold again, Mr. Chairman. Madam President. Following a brief introduction, I shall try to do so quickly on the NOW, on the discussion on dismissal, on a few questions about the employment package, on training, part-time work, on pension and on RVU, on a few questions about the Tozo, on thezzp scheme, and finally on the flex scheme. That is why I hope to answer all the questions. I shall make the introduction very briefly, except that it is, of course, a very strange time for me, because we had the lowest unemployment rate in twenty years less than two months ago, of 2.9%, after which the economy stands still at once and we see for the first time in a long period of rising unemployment. We see a decrease in the number of jobs, but above all a significant decrease in the number of hours worked, by 13% in the month of April, because, of course, whole parts of the economy have stopped catering, retail sales. The number of unemployed rose by 41,000 people in April, increasing from 2.9 to 3.4 in one month. Of course, that's just historical. At the same time, you can see that the number of hours worked has decreased by 13% and unemployment has risen only slightly in this sense. That also raises Mr Azarkan's question as to how effective the package really is. Of course, this government measure has taken the first big hit, unlike in the UK or the United States. These are of course completely different systems and they are incomparable, but there you see unemployment rising to 15%, for example, with long queues of people applying for benefits. Fortunately, we have not yet seen this in the Netherlands. What we do see are the "wrecks" that Mrs Marijnissen mentioned, the most vulnerable people in the Netherlands, the people with a flex contract, the call contracts, thezzp'ers, who also lose their jobs and their income first. I'll come back to that in a minute. To be honest, you expect that in the Dutch labour market. I would like to emphasise that we had the first phase of what Mr Wiebes also said, the hope that it would still be a kind of V-shaped recession and that we would soon be out of it. That was scenario 1 of the Central Planning Bureau, as it were. Honesty commands us to say that we have now passed scenario one. We are now much more in the direction of scenarios 2 or 3, and we must also consider scenario 4. That is the reality. I believe that in such a new reality, too, we must be realistic. We also need to take into account companies that go bankrupt, people who lose their jobs. We also need to adapt our package to that. So we have adapted our package to the roadmap of Prime Minister Rutte and Minister De Jonge; that is the medical package. Fortunately, sectors can be opened up again, for example the catering industry, the gyms and the recreation sector next month. This will enable turnover to be reversed, but at the same time we can see that this turnover will not return to the February situation, so that the aid package will also have to be extended in order to continue supporting it. Fortunately, last night, together with the social partners, which Mr Wiebes and I have been talking to each week to keep an eye on what is happening in the sectors, in the companies and in the trade union movement, we were able to make agreements on some of the sensitive issues of the past few weeks, the dismissal penalty and the discussion on the fixed charges. Mr Wiebes has just spoken about this. I am very pleased that we can always work together in good harmony with 'confidence and strength', says Mr Hans de Boer, to cope with the crisis, to preserve jobs and jobs, and also together to make an agenda for the future, to cope with this short-term crisis, but also to build together to restore earning capacity, restore jobs and create jobs in the Netherlands. Mr Azarkan just asked how effective that package is. I said something about it. It is, of course, very difficult to give hard figures about this now. You can only make a comparison. If you make that comparison, quite indicatively, the Netherlands is doing a little better than the neighbouring countries and certainly better than countries with poor social security, such as the United States and the United Kingdom. In that sense, I am confident that this package has really taken the hit. You can tell by the number of bankruptcies. But at the same time, you have to be honest. It's very early. It's only been one to one and a half months since the package really works. It is also very early to draw conclusions from that. Mr Azarkan also had an interrupting debate with Mr Wiebes on what is the philosophy behind the construction of the arrangements. That has been well thought out. I'm just trying to sketch it briefly. Normally, we have a part-time WW as a reduction in working time. For example, if a company is hit by fire and wages cannot be paid, the government takes over 70%. There is no pay-by-pay scheme underneath, so if that happens, the employer is obliged to pay 70%. The risk is then covered by the WW greenhouses, for which employers and employees pay contributions. We have seen that this part-time WW was simply not possible in the current circumstances. It's set up on 200 companies a year, we'll say, while we're talking about 120,000 companies in a month with 1.8 to 2 million people. So we had to switch to a different design very quickly. That's actually what we put the part-time WW in place for. As we have built on the design of the part-time WW, we have said: we ask employers to pay 100%. This is stricter than in the part-time WW scheme, because they only have to pay 70%. Then we will also pay more, also from the philosophy that if we do not, people will end up in the WW greenhouses and so we will pay the benefits. That's one. The same was true for the DGAs and the self-employed. They don't have a safety net. They do not pay WW premiums and do not have social security schemes, but we felt they needed to be taken care of in this crisis, because this is not really the normal business risk. So we said that we would make the Tozo for dga's andzzp'ers. The Tozo is a minimum income without a partner test and without a capital test, with the possibility for a loan. This is based on the idea that this is extra in relation to what is normal or standard, namely the welfare scheme. Under the welfare scheme, there is a partner test and a capital test if you do not have insurance against income decline. That's very common. As Mr Wiebes has just said, we are now in a new phase. That is a stage in which, I think, we need to adapt to the new reality. This does not apply to all sectors. Fortunately, some sectors are opening up again. I expect that in some sectors it will simply be less in the next two or three years, because there will be fewer flights, for example. The entrepreneurs I speak to also say: "I want to adapt to the new reality. Do I know exactly what's gonna happen? No, but I'm in uncertainty. I'm sure of one thing: if I go through with this for another six months, I'm bankrupt. So I have to adapt my behavior to the new reality." So we have adapted this whole package to a wide range of aspects, both the discussion on the dismissal penalty, on which I will be returning shortly, and the discussion on the partner test in the Tozo, and the discussion on the reopening of the economy and on how to move the NOW regime along with it. The NOW scheme only compensates for the percentage of turnover losses; it is not an absolute amount. In doing so, we are trying to adapt adaptively to the next phase of this crisis. So this is kind of the philosophy behind it. There's a lot more thinking in that of the three of us. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u113	That was the brief introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u114	Yes, Mr. Chairman, this was the brief introduction. But I think I've already done a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u115	Then I will go to Mr Azarkan and then to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u116	I'm getting all excited, Madam President!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u117	Yeah, I see it. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u118	Indeed, I asked about the effectiveness of the measures. Mr Koolmees says that we have paid 90%, saving around 950,000 jobs for the time being, because with a potential of 13%, it is generally about a million jobs. Then my answer is: then we have to do this for a very long time. But I don't think that's possible. I think we're going to do something exceptional in that second package. I think we should look very cleverly at what works and what doesn't. My question was that we do not really know what the effectiveness of the measures is. There are undoubtedly measures among which we can ask ourselves whether they have worked out well. If we don't know that correctly, I find it complicated because I don't have an analysis of my own. I see there's a wire transfer from Panteia and the CPB. There's a lot of things. But the answer was a little too easy: we did this at the highest level of aggregation, pretty much everyone still has their job, so it's going really well. We can't hold on to that for long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u119	That's right. I very much agree with Mr Azarkan. The suggestion is always raised that we pay 90% of wages. Of course it isn't. The NOW reimburses up to 90% of the turnover loss. That is why it is also an adaptive regulation. A catering company that has been closed, but has sold meals, has perhaps 10% or 20% of its regular turnover and is compensated for 90%. But see also the estimate: we expect, of course, that more sectors will be opened up and, with that, turnover will turn again, which will reduce the budgetary burden. Only, how much is that exactly? We have no idea. That's one. Two is: we spend a month and a half working on these packages. We only want to provide certainty for entrepreneurs towards the future, and that is why we are now announcing this extension. Do we know everything? No. The Prime Minister sometimes says, "We're steering in the fog," I think. That is, of course, also the reality for us. But by putting together such a package and making it adaptive, so that it also breathes, so to speak, with the economic situation and with the economy, you have a kind of cushion. That can just catch it. This morning, for example, there were new figures from the CBS on producer confidence that were slightly more positive. That makes me hopeful. I like the fact that that whole package can breathe with it. That is why it is also a robust scheme. But we will have to learn a lot of lessons from this, including towards the future. What is effective policy and what is not? What shouldn't we have done and what should we have done? We've also done some things just, yeah, pricked, and done something, in all honesty. We have all said in the first package that there is a risk of fraud and misuse. We rely on trust, for example, in many regulations. That is also the reality. We are going to have a lot of discussions with you about this in six months' time, because examples have emerged that it has not gone well, but yes... I think it's a fair answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u120	Fifth question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u121	Fair enough, indeed. I didn't expect us to know everything right now. There's still a lot of research to be done. We'll come back to that later. The package is clear to me, but in that sense I had a very specific question. The government, the ministers, have chosen to say: we pay them up to 90%; depending on the turnover, we pay, say, €9.530. But that could have been $12,000. So the Secretary of State put that away somewhere. That's based on something, and my question is, why do you actually have to do that four times?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u122	It is based on twice the sv-wage, the social insurance wage. That has to do with the execution. We have the sv-wage in employee insurance, the WW and the WIA. On the first package we thought: where do we end it? Do we want to pay the pilots' salaries? Well, you don't necessarily have to. At the same time, it is also a dilemma, because if you sit too low to compensate for the salary, there is a risk that a company will go bankrupt faster and lose all jobs. So that's how we've made a choice, based on numbers, of an estimate of how many people we're talking about: twice the sv-wage. That's what it's based on. For the whole package, an entrepreneur or employer always has to pay 10% itself. Even with 100% turnover loss, up to 90% is compensated. So 10% have to pay the employers themselves. So there is always an incentive to try to make a little turnover. That's been considered, too. If everything is 100% financed, we close the doors and we are not creative, so to speak, to turn a little turnover. That, of course, is simply from the thought that sometimes you have to adapt to a new reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u123	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u124	That we could pay up to €9.538 for 90%, I really think too much. I really do. You could have said, once sv-wage. Twice is four modes. Look, when it comes to entrepreneurship, I really look at it differently. Until, say, 70% or 80% of your organization just doesn't pay off at all. We must also realise that the incentive to run 10%, 20%, 30% turnover actually does not outweigh the constant costs you have. That's not gonna work. I know a lot of entrepreneurs who say: if I get to play half, I lose even more on balance than when I close. There are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u125	There are. This is different in every sector. In other sectors, too, 20% turnover can cover part of the fixed charges. If you have a very variable cost structure, where you have a lot of costs when you open up part of it, I understand what Mr Azarkan says. But there are also a lot of examples of catering establishments which mainly have rent or lease and which are very much in the interest of partial opening up. So that's all part of it. The tricky thing is: there are 120,000 companies that use it, in all kinds of different sectors of the economy. We can't cut it exactly with a nail scissors. It was my intention to be very brief, Mr President, but this was going to be a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u126	Yeah, no. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u127	I have a question about NOW. The Minister said he was pleased with the agreement reached last night. When I look at that, I see a number of things. One. Aid for businesses is growing longer, from three to four months. Two. Support for businesses is increasing in euros. They're gonna get more fixed charges. Three. The workers are thrown into uncertainty, because the dismissal penalty largely disappears. There will be a somewhat vague arrangement in return, but we can see that the dismissal penalty will disappear. That is not only unjust, I ask the Minister, but also very unwise. In my view, the intention of the scheme was just to maintain employment. So it's weird that you get to fire people. It was also intended to provide security for people, because that is important for people and for families, but also for the economy. After all, we want people to have something to spend and have confidence that they can. This is particularly important for SMEs. Isn't it just so stupid to take that discharge off?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u128	I will come to that discharge in a moment, but in general Mrs Marijnissen says three things that I do not agree with. First of all... The package is not aimed at companies. The package focuses on the payment of wages to employees. As I have just said to Mr Azarkan: every entrepreneur or employer pays a maximum of 10% of the wages themselves. So it doesn't target companies. It is aimed at maintaining jobs and income. That's where the first thesis goes wrong, I think. The second point is longer. We have deliberately chosen to extend the scope of the package, to use time together with social partners to think about how we are going to deal with education, how we are going to use the R&D funds, how we are going to set up part-time WW-type arrangements and how we are going to adapt to the new situation. Many Members of Parliament have drawn attention to this today. We just need a little time to work that out with each other. We do this together with the unions and with the employers. That is why yesterday we extended the package for a month in order to make good agreements. The third point is that workers are being thrown into uncertainty. I fundamentally disagree with that. Why? Because I have heard too many employers over the past period that they are not going to use the second NOW package, if that additional 50% fine remains on it. Given the uncertainty in which the entrepreneur is in, he is not going to apply for the support anymore, but either stop or fire people. The common goal of trade union movement, employers, the cabinet and the Chamber is to maintain as many jobs as possible. That's a diabolical dilemma. That's how I described it. For the sake of completeness. I was gonna do it in a minute, but I'm just gonna do it right now. There's a lot of Indian stories about that firing ticket. An employer, a company, receives a subsidy of up to 90% of the wage bill, compared to the fall in turnover. If a company dismisses someone for business reasons, that wage bill will be reduced 100%. Suppose a company has a 50% turnover drop and someone fires for business reasons, then the wage bill is reduced to 100%. That's still a fine. It's complicated, but Mr Maarten van Gelderen has a nice video on Twitter about this. I recommend that you do. That's one. It leads to a lot of companies saying: if so, I am not going to do it anymore. Then our common goal, the preservation of orbits, disappears behind the horizon and we bite our own tails. I should like to come back to it in detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u129	The Minister finds it complicated or at least says it is complicated. I don't think it's complicated at all. You say quite clearly that the purpose of the scheme is to maintain jobs and income, while you are opening the door precisely to avoid doing so. If that were the case, it would be very reasonable to say: if you are paid most of the wage costs, then you keep your people in the service. For those sectors where this is not sufficient, you could give an additional fee. You could provide extra support for those sectors. The fundamental point is that the risks are shifted to the workers, to the people. That's exactly the mistake that's being made here. That's the danger if you take the discharge off. There's nothing complicated about that. This simply makes employers outlawed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u130	This really is too easy a presentation of things. It is fundamentally incorrect. The companies are the ones at risk, whether they are the fixed charges or the 10% payment of wages. They're more likely to file for bankruptcy. What I just said, we'll bite our own tails. We're just making sure people get fired sooner. You might think, you know what, we're just gonna give more support. There are sectors in the economy where people think it's not gonna be the way it was, so I'm gonna adapt to the new reality anyway. It is often very social employers, who really have a great deal of difficulty in dismissing the workers they employ and who are awake at night. I have also spoken a great deal of this lately. They say: 'I would very much like to help my employees to find a new job and a new sector where there are jobs and where there are jobs. I need time for that. I may need two or three months to do so, and perhaps I should help with the retraining. But if we leave that fine on it that we've got on it now, I'm not gonna do it anymore. I can't finance that, because I'll go bankrupt." And then I think it's a simple world view that I've seen too much over the past week. It seems very social to maintain that dismissal penalty, because it suggests that you retain jobs. But the reality is that it has a counterproductive effect. I don't think that's wise. Apart from that, yesterday I made very nice arrangements with the trade union movement and the employers, but I will get to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u131	What I think is too simple a representation of things is that we call a scheme 'Reservation of employment' and in the meantime say: yes, if you fire people, then we understand that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u132	No, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u133	You have to buy time; that's true. But my point was: where do you put the risks in the meantime? You put it in your office and the cabinet places it with the people, with the employees. You say that, even if the scheme is called 'Conservation of employment', we also understand if you fire them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u134	I told you three times I didn't say that, right? The companies, the entrepreneurs and the employers are the ones who are interested in keeping employees in service, because 10% of the wages they pay themselves and the fixed charges are not fully compensated. Those entrepreneurs have uncertainty. The employees will be paid 100% during that period. Some companies need to adapt to the new reality. It's the new reality. How do we ensure that this happens in a social, just and sensible way? Employers and entrepreneurs need time to do so. Each time that frame "Let me put it this way "we make the workers outlaw" is really too simple a representation of reality. Employers don't think that way. Employers lie awake at night from the fact that they have to fire their employees. So don't make that a frame, but work with solving this problem, and just take care of it... Yeah, I'm serious!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u135	It's getting better and better! I'm not allowed to use a "frame" and it's a "simple presentation of things." It's exactly what the minister himself does! It's exactly what the minister himself does. No one here denies that there are entrepreneurs who hate it when people have to leave, and who are awake from it. No one's questioning that. But there are also a lot of people who are awake right now because they have to fear for their jobs. And they do, Minister Koolmees, because that discharge is going to go off. That's gonna open the door for firing. And then here you can accuse me of frames and a simple presentation of things, but that is not going to happen. It's about the meantime. You say it takes time. My point is, where do you put the risks in the meantime? And the Minister doesn't answer that. The cabinet chooses to place these risks fully on the employees. The cabinet should say, "We are coming together because of this crisis. Everyone understands that there are sectors where additional help is needed, and we can offer them. And where there's no perspective, we're going to retrain, but we're going to do it together." That doesn't mean you're gonna put people out on the street first and then say, "There's also a pot for education and you figure it out."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u136	Mr President, this is not the reality. The right of dismissal and labour law remain fully in place. Workers are fully protected. In fact, I have just explained that in the NOW 2.0, the next package, too, is still a financial incentive to keep people in service. There's even a financial penalty if people get fired. The only thing we took off is that 50% extra fine. In fact, we got the signal that if we let them exist, the risk would be greater that more jobs would be lost than jobs saved. And if Mrs Marijnissen makes that a frame with 'people become outlawed', Mrs Marijnissen is talking to people fearfully, because our whole package is aimed at maintaining as many jobs as possible and maintaining as many businesses as possible. I'm gonna distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u137	The minister was just talking about the dgas. They would have been helped with the Tozo. What I find so regrettable is that the dga's cannot actually participate fully in the NOW scheme. I am so curious about his consideration of not having to deal with this one way or another. Because in the end, dgas are often just employees in their own company. It would be so nice if they could join the NOW in the same way. I am therefore curious about the considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u138	We took a good look at that at the NOW 1.0. A small proportion of DGAs are insured through social security schemes. That's about 5% of all dga's. They are included in the NOW scheme and are reimbursed through their company. A large proportion of DGAs are not covered by social security schemes, for example, because they have control over their own business. That makes it impossible to determine what their income is. That is nowhere well registered and is therefore extremely risky and sensitive to fraud. No contributions are paid either. That has been the reason to make that distinction. It has also been the reason to give the dga access to the Tozo. It's the same reasoning as for thezzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u139	The Tozo is a lot less and we now notice that 95% of dgas fall between shore and ship. But the income can be determined, because there is the usual wage scheme; it is in the law that you have to pay yourself wages. Of course there are exceptions, but wouldn't it be a good point of departure to maintain the usual wage system and, by doing so, let the 95% dgas that now fall between shore and ship go along with the NOW?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u140	We have also raised this question. I understand the background. There is not enough valid information in the systems. As it has no purpose, no contributions are paid and no benefit can be based on it, it is not reliable information to base wage costs on. Then there is a great risk of misuse and a lot of discussions about it. We have had to conclude that we cannot do this through the NOW. We must come up with a different arrangement for this, also because many DGAs are in another tax regime. You are right about the usual wage, but it is also about box 2 and other tax arrangements. That is the reason for making this choice. It had to be fast and robust, of course. It had to match existing data and we didn't have time to rig up all kinds of new things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u141	I hear a lot of excuses about systems and uncontrollability right now. I don't want to disqualify that, because I understand that that's difficult. But isn't it possible to do something for those 95% dgas? This can be done, for example, with an ex post check or for my part with a provision such as half the usual wage. I would appreciate it if you would at least take that with you and reconsider.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u142	We did a really good job of that. That's what we did in the first phase. We have come to this conclusion, because we simply cannot get it done. I just can't. There are no reliable and valid data, there is a risk of misuse and it is susceptible to fraud. I can't and I can't promise that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u143	The party of this minister, D66, is a party that has signed under the guise of reforms in recent years for the relaxation of dismissal law, the shortening of the duration of the WW and the raising of the AOW age. He's partly responsible for it himself. Please, Minister, don't be so corrupted that we don't take your word for it when you say you're doing this because you think it's good for the employees. So far, almost everything your party stands for has led to the cutting of workers' rights. So it's no wonder they don't trust you. It is also inconsistent what you are now saying about this new scheme and the dismissal penalty, because you made it up in the first NOW package. It's your own story. You said yourself you had to put it in and that discharge was necessary. It may have been short and it may have been a different time than now, but still, you made it up yourself. Your criticism of the people who do not like that dismissal penalty disappears, we take it with a grain of salt. I would ask you, however, to reconsider whether you would not want to leave that discharge. There are several parties in the opposition who, fortunately, still have difficulty with that. Or as an alternative to companies that get into trouble if they can't fire people, give them some extra money. Whether that's from 90% to 100% or a loan or a grant or otherwise. It is always better to accommodate companies than to put people on the streets and kick them to UWV or the food bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u144	The first answer, as I have just tried to explain in my introduction, is that we really have reached a different stage. Our hope was that there would be a V-shaped recovery: briefly closed and then open again. The whole scheme was based on keeping people employed; also flex workers. That's why the fine was in there. That was an extra threshold, I'll say. Now, on the basis of the economic data and scenarios, including the Central Planning Bureau and the ECB, we find that we are really over Phase 1 and that there is no V-shaped recovery, but a longer recovery. That's gonna mean people are gonna lose their jobs and companies are gonna go bankrupt. When we see that, we have to adapt our arrangements to this new reality. That is why I found the fine in the first package very good to defend and now deliberately remove it. That's one. Two: in recent weeks we have, of course, rethinked many times to make the fine exist, including in all kinds of conversations I have had with the trade union movement and the employers. I told you, it's a diabolical dilemma, because you have to choose what weighs more. In the end, my assessment, and also that of many entrepreneurs I have spoken to, is that if you allow the fine to exist, more entrepreneurs will not apply for the scheme and more jobs will eventually be lost. There's no scientific evidence for that. I have to be honest with you about that. It's an assessment based on the signals from those entrepreneurs. But those are the entrepreneurs who have to choose whether to keep someone in service or to apply for dismissal. Thirdly, could you, for example, give more targeted support to companies that are going bankrupt? That's incredibly complex. I'd love to, but we're talking about 120,000 companies. We cannot say for 120,000 companies on an individual level who does or does not have a perspective. There are also differences between sectors. Even within sectors there are differences. A restaurant tent with a large terrace and lots of outdoor space has more perspective than a small pipe drawer or brown bar where people have to be inside. That is the reality and balance I have made to take this step. There is one point on which I was very much in agreement with the trade union movement. This was about whether there are examples of, in particular, larger companies taking advantage of this situation and thinking: I am quickly going through a reorganisation. In the last two weeks, I have been looking for a way to put the trade union movement or the staff representation in a position of that kind of larger reorganisations. We made a deal about that last night. The trade union movement must be involved in more than 20 industrial redundancies, or mediation should be requested. If that does not happen, there will still be a discount on the NOW. That is a stick behind the door to ensure that, if there is a need to reorganise, it goes in a social and just way. Mr. Asscher was right to say that. The trade union movement itself sees that in some situations there is no other choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u145	Thank you. At least this is a serious answer, although I do not entirely agree with it. You could have done it differently. I understand that you can't help 120,000 companies, or maybe even more, with more funding. You could have said, "I'll keep that fine." At the time when it appears that individual companies may be more than a few, but I don't think 120,000 people are gonna get into trouble and go on the bottle, or go bankrupt, because they can't fire people and get a fine, they're gonna come to you. You're gonna measure whether they really are. If that's the case, we'll find a way to help them. With that, you could still have allowed that fine to exist. You say yourself that you have no scientific evidence, but that you have spoken to entrepreneurs. Well, Minister, I might also find entrepreneurs who will say the opposite, or at least employees who will say the opposite. So you could have said: I will allow the fine to exist; if it causes problems for companies, I will not turn away from them, but will measure whether they are right. I look at them with customization, with a semi-generic measure or any other way I can meet them. You'd have made a profit on both sides. You would not have had to put people out on the street and you could have served entrepreneurs in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u146	I understand Mr Wilders' question. In fact, we've gone through it and explored whether that would be possible. 120,000 companies just can't do that. In fact, out of the 120,000 companies that have applied for NOW, the vast majority are small businesses, with fewer than ten employees. It's about the restaurant tent on the corner or the retail trade. It is impossible for the UWV, or any performer, to determine how they stand financially and economically and what the prospects are for the coming period. Again, the example I just gave of a restaurant tent with a large terrace versus a pipe drawer already shows how complicated it is. So we considered it, but in the end we said: we can't do this and we can't do it. That's one. Two: all the entrepreneurs I've spoken to really indicate the opposite. The analysis is: we want to keep as many jobs as possible and to maintain employment. This is the best way to do it. And I would like to repeat that it is still very expensive to dismiss people for business reasons because normal labour law, the normal right of dismissal, still exists in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u147	However, it will be cheaper for many companies than the previous fine, that of the whole wage plus 50%. There will undoubtedly be examples where that is not the case, but with many examples that will be different. So I don't agree. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister the following question. What if, over the next few days, it turns out that there is huge use being made of that arrangement, that a lot of people are being fired, and that you see that there is anticipating the release of those fines and companies are going to fire fifteen or sixteen people, are you prepared to say: I have made that decision.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u148	I don't think we can say a sensible word about that in three or four weeks. But I'm trying to be man enough to admit mistakes when I make them. What I can predict anyway is that unemployment is going to rise in the coming period because companies are out of reserves because they are going to fail or no longer have a perspective. Or stop entrepreneurs because there will be less perspective in their industry in the coming years. If that is Mr Wilders' question, I predict that unemployment will rise. As a cabinet, we always keep our finger on the wrist. The support package is aimed at maintaining jobs and employment. If that doesn't work the way we want it to, we'll adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u149	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u150	This is not exactly the answer to my question. I am referring to the specific issue of the removal of the dismissal penalty. I am afraid you are right that, unfortunately, there will be more unemployment anyway. But if you carry on with this plan, to my deep regret, and at some point you see that it is working out in a way that was not intended and that the companies you consulted were perhaps wrong, are you prepared to say, for example, halfway through the ride: Room, I made a mistake, that dismissal penalty is coming back, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u151	Whatever keeps your finger on the wrist in case of corporate redundancies? I would just like to illustrate why it is so difficult to set a deadline. If a company uses the UWV route, layoffs for business reasons, it will go on for a long time anyway. In this procedure it takes at least one month, because the employer has to make an appointment with a staff representative. It will then take another month for an agreement to be reached. And it may take another month for the end of the employment to be invoked. You're talking about a three-month period here anyway. What we are doing is keeping a close eye on the number of redundancies for business reasons. If there's any reason to do something about it, we're definitely gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u152	Then I'm just gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u153	Another very small point. Indeed, if the number of economic redundancies increases, but you can also measure the number of applications at the UWV. What I want to hear from you is that if you turn out to be wrong because things go wrong between now and three months, at least you have the willingness to reconsider and question that fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u154	I'm holding my finger on the wrist, but rethinking the fine is a promise I can't keep. You end up in a different situation because the NOW 2.0 is at the end. In any case, we will find ourselves in a new situation in which we will also have to use other instruments, such as part-time work or such instruments, in order to maintain employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u155	Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u156	There has been a lot of talk in this debate about entrepreneurs lying awake because of their own staff. There is also another reality. This is a reality in which companies simply see their employees as a cost and, in fact, always try to organise them as cheaply as possible. It is therefore also important that we have labour law and protection. If the world were just those model entrepreneurs, we wouldn't need any of that. It's necessary. I am actually listening to Mr Wilders' question differently: what if you find in the applications that suspiciously many companies are applying for layoffs just under twenty? So there's a threat of abuse. You don't have to wait four weeks, because the procedure doesn't start. Is the Minister prepared, I believe, to be man enough to intervene in order to prevent people from getting out on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr Asscher also asked for this in his first term. I think the example was the 10 times 19. Sure, we'll keep our finger on the wrist at the UWV anyway. If constructions are being devised to circumvent this last night's agreement, then we do need to intervene. I very much agree with Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u158	In my view, we could then make an agreement to, if this arrangement is going to take five or six weeks, at least to get the signal whether this type of abuse is taking place or not. Then we talk about it and see what needs to be done, for example, reverse the fine or perform another repair. In that case, we will be there in time before unemployment has increased at the end of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u159	Again, the latter is going to happen anyway. That's the reality we're in. But if there are signs of abuse, improper use or useful guys trying to circumvent the rules, then of course we intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u160	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u161	I've had the whole block of dismissal, so I'd like to skip the subject. Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Aartsen had questions about the NOW and the coincidence with other subsidies. We have, of course, rigged the whole package with wide support schemes. In calculating the turnover reduction for the NOW, subsidies are counted as turnover. Of course, this was done mainly at the beginning, because some sectors simply receive subsidies. In education, art and culture and care there is a subsidy to finance buildings or staff. If you didn't count that, you'd, as it were, double-subsidise. The difficult point is that if we now make new aid measures, such as the fixed-cost allowance, or in the previous round the TOGS, which, of course, are also included as revenue by accountants. You cannot distinguish in an audit what the money is meant for. It's just revenue and therefore revenue. If you make separate categories for this, it is also uncontrollable for accountants. We'll have the risk of fraud. So it's in here. It's all about this. The NOW grant itself does not count in the turnover, because then you get a kind of circular reasoning. So it's not. We have of course read that this week, but that is not the case. There is a lot of uncertainty in the estimates. We have chosen an advance and a reference month and made an estimate of the decrease in sales. In retrospect, it has to prove exactly how much it has been. The risk of set-off, paybacks or defaults is rather high when a company has to estimate in advance how much turnover loss is being made. It's complicated at this time. We have therefore opted for a margin of 80%. So that is not the 100% subsidy, but 80% subsidy, which reduces the risk of post-taxation. We have a different dilemma with that. You can create liquidity problems for entrepreneurs. We therefore have other arrangements from the Minister of EZK, namely the guarantee scheme and that kind of thing. Mr Van Haga and Mr Stoffer had a question about seasonal companies. Of course, in package 1.3, in last week's letter, we found a solution for seasonal companies by moving the reference month from January to March. The question also concerned an alternative calculation of turnover. That's not possible, because then it becomes uncontrollable again. We compare the sales for the months of March, April, May now it will be June, July, August and September with seven months turnover of 2019. Why those 7 months 2019? An audit has been carried out and annual accounts have been established. The following will soon be determined by auditors at the large subsidy amounts, so that you can compare it well with each other. If you have to calculate which part of the turnover is made in which month, it is actually impossible by the large number of companies. We have made it simple, but we have listened carefully to the criticism of the seasonal companies that they had relatively few people on the payroll in January. That is why we added the possibility for March last week. As a result, the most recent wage data "March" can now be used for the NOW 1.0 and instantly for the NOW 2.0. Mr. Chairman. I am going to try to get through the questions about employment and labour market policy quickly. Many questions about education have been asked by the Christian Union, the CDA, the Labour Party, 50PLUS, Van Kooten-Arissen and DENK. Of course, we have our regular "lifelong development" and education policies. We have the SLIM budget and the STEP budget. Those are all things we have by default. In addition, we also released 50 million for the Netherlands in the support package 2.0 last week. That is not a very large amount, but it is an amount that applies for the second half of this year and that can be deployed quickly. It is actually intended as a kind of lubricating oil to detach the R&D funds in the sectors. It is intended to enable online training. Why? There are a lot of people sitting at home right now and not working. There's an offer, except it's behind a pay wall. Well, make it available to sectors so people can track it. But the intention is, and that was also stated yesterday in the agreements we made with the social partners, that additional agreements will be made in the coming period on the detachment of these R & D funds, something Mr Klaver talked about. We are doing this in order to involve the social partners in this training and retraining policy and to help them move from one job to another. Mr Heerma, for example, referred to part-time work. Mr Terpstra, all kinds of industrial sectors, as well as Willem van der Leegte van VDL, have asked for a part-time WW, so that it can be combined with job retention and room for training. In the agreements we made yesterday, it says that in the coming period, we are going to create a working agenda with the social partners to set up such instruments and to think about how to use them. We would like to join the existing instruments. Another example is cross-sectoral R&D funds. How can you use the money built up in one sector for education and training to retrain you to a job in another sector? All these creative ideas need to be detached in the coming period, together with the trade unions and employers, in order to shape that agenda. I have already promised the Chamber that I will explore the possibility of this part-time WW. That's what we're doing. The truth is that the old part-time WW before the Work and Security Act can no longer be said. I say it to Mr Asscher, but I do not know why! So we're going to have to get to a new design. When you talk about 1.8 million employees, it is complicated to shape that, because you have to keep track of individual WW rights of 1.8 million workers. So it's really a complicated puzzle we're thinking about right now. Mrs Van Brenk asked if the AOW age could be reduced. As she knows, I do not think that is a sensible idea, because of what economists call the "lump of labor failure." That is the idea that less offer leads to the filling of vacancies by young people. In the 1980s, this did not work. For example, none of the VRS has had that effect. That is why I am not in favour of this. What I am prepared to do, as I agreed in the pension agreement with the trade union movement and the employers, are agreements on sustainable employability and the possibility of part-time and early retirement. Mr Asscher asked for this and I included it yesterday in the letter with the trade union movement and the employers. Sustainable employability and part-time and early retirement can also play a role in discussions at sectoral level on what is sensible policies for this crisis. As you have read in the newspapers, we are now working on the implementation of the pension agreement, the allocation of this EUR 800 million pot and the legislation for the RVU proposal. That's, I'll say, the fine on early retirement. That will bring us to the Chamber, hopefully soon, as soon as we have the pension agreement. But we are also taking it into account in the work agenda that I agreed with the social partners last night. Mr Asscher stands still!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u162	I will not move until the President invites me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u163	Nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u164	Yes. I think that work agenda is good, but now it's still paper. We know that a lot of energy needs to be put in to make such a work-to-work plan work. Otherwise, you'll be a month away and those people will lose their jobs. In the printing industry, at some point, people were able to retrain and get to work elsewhere. At the cigarette factory in Bergen op Zoom we also succeeded in the previous period. My request would be to take a very active role there and, for example, to inform the Chamber in a month's time of what plans have come out of that. Then we can also see that something really happens with it. My second request, because then the shopping list can be done in one go. I think that legislation for the RVU fine went into consultation at the end of last year, so it should be ready by now. It would be very good to treat them before the summer. I think the Chamber would be happy to speed up that. This can then become a reality in the social plans and people can simply retire instead of in the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u165	I shall begin with your second question. That is a bill that has just come back from the Council of State and is now on the table at the last discussions on the pension agreement. That is one legislative proposal for the RVU tax, but also for the sum of all of a sudden and for leave savings. It'll be in your room very soon. But in its implementation, it is complicated for the Tax Administration to allow that to happen at any time. We need to think about that in the implementation process. The fact that the proposal is coming is a reason for the collective bargaining parties to make such an agreement at the collective bargaining table last week and to reserve budgetary space for it. This must be done more frequently in the coming months, and trade unions and workers can work together in this. That's one. Two, in one month I dare not promise, because we agreed yesterday with the trade union movement and the employers that from now on we are going to work on filling and working out this agenda. I know that's very technical and very complicated. So I cannot promise within a month, but we are going to work really hard, because we all want there to be good tools to meet this challenge. I would certainly like to inform you about its progress on the next occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u166	As soon as possible. What matters to me is this. Once the legislation around this RVU tax is in the Chamber, it will be easier to base agreements on it in the plans that are now being made until 1 October. I saw that cop cao, too. I believe it is logical and good, but that is a very large, organized sector. It would be nice if employers and employees could see more clearly how this early retirement will work for these heavy-duty professions. This will enable them, if there are too many employees, to find a social solution for some of them. That time is now available, so my request would be: do not wait for those other elements of the pension agreement, but send it to the Chamber as soon as possible and get word to the Chamber as soon as possible about what those work-to-work plans are going to look like. I understand that this will cost a lot of capacity, including the administration, but I think it will save so much human suffering and economic suffering after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u167	Sure. I also have to keep an eye on my people, because they have worked very hard over the past period, really worked very hard. The implementation has also worked very hard. Also at the UWV and at the Tax Office people have worked weekends, evenings to carry it all out. We also really need to be careful not to over-ask the implementation. That's one. Two, your Social Affairs spokesman, Mr Gijs van Dijk, is not present, but we have had a recent debate on this. This was also about ten examples out of ten collective agreements in which such agreements were made. They are also shared between the social partners, in order to illustrate how this can be shaped. There is also one bad example, the collective agreement of the service stations. That's where the government was gonna pay for everything, but we weren't gonna pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u168	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u169	We're definitely gonna do that. I do not know who asked the question, I think it was Mrs Van Brenk, whether I could extend the minimum duration of the WW. That is a very complex operation, in the systems, especially against the background that the UWV is already doing a lot of tasks at the moment and that such a NOW has gotten side by side. If you wanted this politically, it would take months for you to do something like that. IT-technical, system-technical. Last month, the UWV received 72,000 WW requests and of course it wants to help people quickly. So that's a trade-off. Mrs Van Brenk also asked about the lobby to abolish the transition fee. The cabinet didn't intend to do that. I'm getting a call. Hm, Mrs Kaag, perhaps looking for Mr Asscher, following the first term? Mr Stoffer (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, this is the Secretary of State's portfolio, so I have to read it now and then. I don't always quite understand what I'm reading, so I apologize in advance. Are you prepared to look at the application of the reduced hourly criterion for the entitlement to Tozo for disabled persons? However sympathetic the request may be, unfortunately we cannot honour it. This has to do with the following: in order to qualify for a benefit under the Tozo, the criterion that the selfemployed person must work 1,225 hours per year must be met. Although disabled persons have a disability and may have limited earning capacity, they cannot be categorized as a group which cannot meet the normal hourly criterion of 1,225 hours per year or an average of 23.5 hours per week. There is no objective method to determine how many hours a person can work per year or week. This applies to this group of disabled people. The number of entrepreneurs with an additional disability benefit, i.e. the WIA, WAO, WAZ or Wajong benefits, which can in practice qualify for such a Tozo benefit, can only be very limited, is the analysis. In fact, the disabled entrepreneurs already have an income from the UWV through one of those benefits, which is guaranteed by the Supplementary Act at the level of the social minimum. If it were underneath, it would be supplemented by the Supplementary Act. So this has been figured out. Unfortunately, it cannot be established in an objective manner. We've already talked extensively about the partner test at the Tozo. Mr Aartsen said clearly in an interruption in the first period what still exists: the exemption for the capital test, the loan that can be granted, but also the tax exemption that can still be applied for. Mr Van Weyenberg asked: have alternatives to the partner income test been considered? Yes. We also looked at the somewhat strange distinction between that €1,500 and €1,050. Mr Van Weyenberg knows what I am talking about. The SZW Secretary of State did not choose this because of the speed and feasibility, because she wants to join the partner income test as it also applies in the Participation Act and in the Bbz. The Bbz is the legal framework on which the Tozo is based. If we have to deviate from that system, we can't. That's not feasible, unless you're going to build a completely different system, but it doesn't work in time. That doesn't make it feasible. I have just indicated in my introduction why the partner income test in the Tozo has been adapted. From the whole package that fits in with the new economic reality and the step to the new normal... Once again, Mr Aartsen has said in an interruption with, I think, Mr Wilders that a lot of things still exist. There too, the capital exemption and the loan remain, on top of the tax opportunities available. That's it about the Tozo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u170	Then I go to Mrs Van Brenk, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Wilders and I also see Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr Wiebes had referred a question to Mr Koolmees, but he did not answer him. It was about whether the problem of an entry date at the NOW is now gone, because we all got emails about people who had taken over a beach tent and therefore had no income in March, and you name it. Is that problem now completely out of the world in this second phase?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u172	I wish it was one of those parties. Not always. Last week I sent the NOW 1.3 scheme, which found a solution to all of the practical problems, for example for people who have taken over a business or who just have a different pay chain number. I listed all these examples in the letter last week. They can be solved. That is why I also extended the application period for the NOW 1.0, so that the companies which lost out in the first round due to these criteria can still apply, if they are eligible. Another group concerns, for example, people who did not have a wage bill in January, but in March. Because of the shift in the seasonal arrangements that Mr Stoffer asked for, from January to March, you now have and can also rely on these wage data. It's complex, technical matter. It's all in last week's letter about NOW 1.3.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u173	The other point that has not been answered is about the Tozo and the difference between a young self-employed person who is in trouble and an older person who already has AOW and is also in trouble, because he may have invested a lot of money in stock and the like. AIO. This should apply for an AIO; elderly income support. There's a power key in there. If you've invested $10,000 in stock, that's power and you're gonna get in trouble. The question is: why is that distinction now? Why should we not be able to drop the income test for both of these specific cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u174	Mrs Van Brenk is asking me over right now. If you will allow me, I will come back to this in the second term, because I honestly do not know this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u175	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u176	Just one more point. I was very happy to hear that the cabinet of course does not abolish the transition fee. But I'm assuming that the cabinet will also not compensate for employers. I have asked for that commitment, and I have not heard it specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u177	No, we weren't going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u178	We have two major problems with this new aid package. One of them is the disappearance of the dismissal penalty. We just talked about that. The second is the introduction of the so-called partner test forzzp'ers. A lot of realzzp'ers are gonna get in trouble for this. If your partner earns more than the social minimum, €1,500, your right to support lapses. My question to the Minister is: why does he want thesezzp'ers to be so disproportionately harsh because that's the grab compared to the employees? We just talked about this: they get their wage costs paid 100% if they get it. Companies get extra money. Those are all gifts. It is said tozzp'ers: sorry, your support lapses and if you want something, you can get a loan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u179	That's not reality. Reality is another. We have made a separate arrangement, the Tozo scheme, forzzp'ers and dga's who no longer have any income. They can rely on that Tozo scheme. In the first package all the keys were off: the power key, the partner key and the key on the future of the company. They were all gone. We have noted that we are now a step further and that sectors are opening up again. Economic activities are re-emerging. We also think that we should take a step towards normal. We have chosen to maintain some of the exceptions, for example the capital test, the loan and access to the tax facilities open to entrepreneurs, but also to adapt some of them, because of this new reality. I think that's fair and I want to explain why. That is because we also have these tests for all those who come into assistance. We always do, and why should we allow great differences to exist between people? We also arrange guided landing in this, because we leave some of the facilities open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u180	The Minister asks why he would do that. Well, because there are a lot ofzzp'ers who are hit very hard by this crisis and those who just lost all their jobs overnight. Then it's no more than usual. The minister said he wanted to keep jobs and income as much as possible. Then it is unfair that thesezzp'ers are now hit so hard in this second package of support. I would really like to make an appeal to the Minister today. I don't think we as SP are the only ones who have big problems with this. I hear many parties here in the Chamber express great concern about the position ofzzp'ers. Those are people who work hard, often forced as a zzp'er. Isn't there something possible when it comes to crossing that line? That limit is now set very hard at the social minimum: €1,500. You say that something else is not feasible. I think that's too easy. There should be something possible, right? It's fine that you set a limit for households that will make it. This is about the people who are just going to get into trouble, and there will be. There will bezzp'ers who now lose the support, really if household gets into trouble. Then it must be possible to set that limit at an acceptable level, so that at least the people, thezzp'ers, who need the support can still get that support in this second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u181	The discussion about thezzp'ers. The labour market spokesmen present today will recognize that.... has been going on for a number of years. Zzp'ers aren't in any arrangement. They are not registered anywhere with their incomes, except with the Tax Administration and then only on the basis of the tax pay. So we don't know how many hours people have worked, for example. It may be someone who has a webshop or someone who is an advisor for 40 hours a week, so to speak. We do not know, because we do not have that information. They're not with the UWV and they're not with the IRS. They're not registered anywhere. So we have no objective, verifiable, verifiable data on the incomes ofzzp'ers. Just a tax return. That's all that's available. This is also a problem in the discussion on the AOV for people with disabilities, the disability insurance which Mr Van Kent is also very much in favour of. So you'd have to prick something, and we can't do that. Because we see thatzzp'ers are affected by income losses and we want to support thosezzp'ers, we have just rigged up the separate Tozo scheme to provide something of income support. We have joined the welfare schemes and the social minimum, because that is the safety net for people who, for whatever reason, have no income. That is the argument we have come up with. This was also an old scheme, the 2003 BMI scheme, which was aimed at self-employed entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u182	Here the minister exposes the cabinet as an employer's cabinet. You come here today and I note that "yes, it's all complicated with zzp'ers, because we don't know how much they earn and that's impossible, so social minimum', while you know that many households in which one or two people work as zzp'ers get into trouble. Isn't that quite contrary to what is being arranged for companies? It is also not all clear what is happening with companies receiving aid. Take a KLM, who puts the temporary workers on the street and still gets support. We don't hear any of that from this cabinet. And then it's aboutzzp'ers and then you say, "Yes, it's not feasible, and we don't really know exactly how much these people deserve." It's just harrowing, the difference with the big companies. Profit tax also needs to be further reduced next year. You can do all that, but you can't do something decent for a hard-workingzzp'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u183	As a cabinet in this whole package, both in package 1.0 and in package 2.0, we have arranged something special for this group, the special Tozo scheme, precisely because we thought we needed a safety net for the independent entrepreneurs, I say to Mrs Marijnissen, who arezzp'ers. So, frankly, I don't think it's going to go far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u184	Mr President, I understand from you that I have only one interruption left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u185	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u186	It's an honor for you to spend it on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u187	It could take half an hour to interrupt. No kidding. Look, thezzp'ers are just getting paged. I will not repeat all the arguments I mentioned earlier or mentioned by Mrs Marijnissen. The cabinet says we have to do it together and we have to go through the crisis together. You must have noticed, Minister, that several parties are making a point of this, although they are opposition parties. You know, wasn't D66 the party that went for the primacy of politics? That was one thing that, fortunately, I always agreed with D66. We were in favour of the primacy of politics, even above the whole concept of sovereignty in our own circle, which prevails more among the Christian Democrats, and thus apart from the whole model of consultation. I can mention examples where your party and my party were on the same side fighting for the primacy of politics. Surely it is not possible for you to conclude an agreement with representatives of employers and employees, when you do not do so here in the house of politics? Those workers' representatives represent only a part of the workforce. What is the percentage they represent outside the government? One in five employees? Surely it is not possible for you to conclude an agreement with representatives of employers and employees, while you are not taking up the gauntlet here, in the house of politics, even if you see that almost the entire opposition has a problem with this, when almost the entire opposition says: do what extras? I would almost like to say: do some extras and find out for yourself how. That surprises me, also bearing in mind your own story that we must try not to get too close to each other here. Pick up that glove, think about how you can do a little more for that group, and then come up with a proposal. That's the least we can ask of you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u188	I'm sure you can ask that of me. I'm a democrat at heart. If your Chamber decides in a majority to do something, I will, of course, do it properly. But, Mr. Wilders, we've really given this some serious thought. I indicated in my introduction why we consider it wise to adapt the whole package to the new economic reality that we are now in. I have indicated that we are past that stage 1 and that we should actually acknowledge that the V-shaped recovery we were hoping for is not the reality. So we really need to think about the adaptability of companies, of companies and of workers who lose their jobs and who, for example, end up in the WW or in the assistance. For example, 41,000 net people entered the WW in April. That's also a lot of people who in income go down hard, are insecure and are anxious at night. The same goes forzzp'ers. In some sectors that have been really closed in recent months, for example the catering industry, they could not earn income. These sectors are gradually opening up again. We believe that entrepreneurs must also have the 'creativity' to start earning their own income again, I shall say. This also brings the scheme into line with the new reality. We don't do that because we like it. No one likes this crisis. Companies that go bankrupt, people who get fired,zzp'ers who don't have any income; they all don't like it. We'd rather not have had the whole crisis at all. Then I could have dealt with the integration law, with the pension agreement, and then we would have had a completely different summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u189	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u190	But this is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u191	Yes, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u192	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words. Maybe I won't convince you, but at least let's try to ease that revenue fall for thosezzp'ers. I know what you're saying. On the other hand, if you're an employee and you're lucky that your employer gets the benefits, gets 90% compensation and just pays you 100% of your salary, then you're a little less worried than if you're now azzp'er. The difference is very harsh and very hard. So I'd still like to ask the Minister the next question, Mr President, and then I'll walk back to my place. Apart from the differences of principle between us, I would like to ask the Minister to see if he can do something extra for those people, and thus do something about the income drop of thosezzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u193	I have also just explained to Mrs Marijnissen why we voted on the Tozo regulation. We do not have data on hours worked and we do not have some income data from independent entrepreneurs. This is where I also stumbled into the discussion about disability insurance. Unfortunately, the fact that we don't have those data is the reality. We must do something about that, and that is also part of the pension agreement. But we don't have that data right now, so I can't base this on anything, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u194	In my first term, I had also asked the question about the Tozo scheme in relation to the 65-plussers who are entitled to AOW, and the difference with the AIO. It is good that the Minister will come back to that in the next term, but then we will not be able to table any further motions on that point. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the Minister has two options. Either you let the people who are entitled to an AOW benefit fall under the Tozo, or you eliminate the power test for the AIO. But, of course, that seems very...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u195	I don't know all the details, but here's what we can do. Mr. Hoekstra will be here shortly. In the meantime, I am asking for an answer to the question that stands and when Mr Hoekstra is ready, I will answer it for you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u196	I'd be happy to, otherwise I'd like to table a motion on this point. I had another question. The government reserves 50 million for work to work, to retrain people and to help them return to work. What's the 50 million based on? Is this amount still too high if it turns out that a lot more people want to make use of this scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u197	The 50 million is based on some kind of impetus that we want to give and which we want to make more of together with social partners, for example through these R & D funds. But it is also what we could wisely spend until the end of the year. If you make money available, it is not that it can be spent in a sensible way. So we used some of the money for the existing development advice, which was just finished and which has been very well evaluated and which people are very pleased with. We'll extend that. Part of the money goes to online training activities. This is about the opportunities for people to take part in training activities, for example, if they are partly in work. And part of it's about releasing the money from R&D funds. Our estimate is that we can use that meaningfully this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u198	Unfortunately, a lot of people will lose their jobs and their income and there will probably be a lot of people in certain sectors who want to retrain. So what is the whole amount, except for the 50 million, that the retraining funds will still be released to help people? I do not think the Minister really has any idea how much is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u199	No, I didn't. What I need, I don't know yet. This also depends, for example, on how many people are at risk of losing their jobs and how the labour market is going to develop. If it is true that some sectors are opening up again and there is an increase in employment, we will have a less serious problem than if it takes longer. So that's right. We do know that there will be around EUR 1.8 billion, EUR 2 billion per year in these training funds, so there is a substantial amount of money available to support this. We do know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u200	I'll come back to the Tozo and thezzp'ers. First of all, I would like to praise what the Minister is doing here, namely that he at least explains the logic behind measures and that he explains that thought has been given to them. I think it is also very good for the Netherlands to know that we are not going to endure this forever and that we are going to work towards a different situation. This means that all the arrangements we have will be phased out rather than it will necessarily become more. My problem is in the inconsistency of thinking when it comes to this Tozo. Yesterday, it was agreed to raise the amount of the fixed burden borne by employers. It's been agreed to go through the NOW for a month. On the other hand, we see what happens withzzp'ers and with the Tozo: it actually gets stricter when it comes to income and a partner test is introduced. We see that this crisis is deepening, and that is why we know that my point is that we need to do something extra before that bridge is bridged. I therefore think that you should not enter such a partner test now, but should give a little more space to thosezzp'ers. After all, we know that the groups that should make use of this, let me put it this way, and make use of it, are thezzp'ers at the bottom. Those aren't the people with the highest incomes. When they get just above the social minimum, they fall into a deep, deep, deep hole. That's not easy to catch. I would therefore ask the Minister to reconsider this on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u201	Thank you for the compliment on consistency. That's one. Two. We extended the whole package by a month yesterday. We have not only extended the NOW, but also the Tozo for a month. So also the Tozo runs for a month longer, that special provision without a capital test and with loans. That too is an extra safety net that we are making available. That's one. Two. As far as the fixed charges are concerned, I am also looking at Mr Wiebes..... this is a partial reimbursement of those fixed charges. We are not going to reimburse all the fixed charges; this is a partial reimbursement of them. It is a concession to the fixed charges. It is therefore not the case that these entrepreneurs are fully protected from this. All the parties, as Mr Wiebes said, all the people in the chain, the suppliers, the outsiders, are paying for this. That is also fair to me in this situation. The government pays for a large part of it, but the people in the chain also pay for it. Entrepreneurs who can open up in part must also look for a new earning capacity. That is what I believe to be appropriate to this phase of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u202	It was a compliment on the one hand, but at the point of the Tozo I cannot follow logic. I am not saying here that all the fixed burdens on employers would be paid. With that increase now it's $50,000 you're not going to cover all the costs either. But it is an increase compared to the first package. We can see that it is not enough. The Tozo makes a reverse move. The image you get with the support of thezzp'ers... Yesterday, VNO-NCW negotiated very well. Additional money will be made available to the companies they represent. Thezzp'ers have always been less well represented within the social partners. For them, the demands are increased. I do not think that is right at this stage of the crisis. That's why I keep hammering on this. That partner test is gonna get people in a lot of trouble. This is not a promise 'we're going to pay your income forever', but for the period when we extend and extend everything, VNO-NCW negotiated a lot of extra money yesterday, which I would like to give to those entrepreneurs, we should also take a step further for thezzp'ers. That is not going to happen, and I am sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u203	I understand the point made by Mr Klaver, but I have to make a comment. In the first phase, Mr Wiebes and Mrs Keijzer made €4,000 available for the fixed charges, the TOGS. That $4,000 was just a shotgun shot, let's face it. This was completely inadequate for many companies. With that, they have heavily absorbed their reserves. That's a risk. That is why the trade unions were also in favour of the increase in fixed charges. This reduces the risk of companies going bankrupt. So that was more from job retention, from job retention. This concession is actually a correction in relation to the first package, in which the compensation compared to, for example, Tozo, which was not generous in terms of income but was not high in terms of conditions. People in welfare do have a power test and a partner test and that kind of thing, but at the Tozo we don't have one. I understand the question, but it is a kind of compensation for the first package, but it is aimed at maintaining jobs and employment. That's what the whole package is all about. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to my one-after-last block. Sorry, it's taking longer than I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u204	Well, it's an important subject, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u205	Mr Wiebes says "sure." A lot of questions have been asked about the flex side. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party has tabled a motion which has broad support in the Chamber. I sent a letter on this last week from I believe 12 sides with all kinds of variants and a proposal for the TOFA. Mr Wiebes said: we give our children ugly names. That's right. In that letter I put a number of dilemmas. I would like to emphasise that. We've selected five, six variants. We have looked into whether we can carry it out and whether we can reach the target group that Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion is asking for. Honesty commands us to say we can do that "mwah, mwah." It's really a bit of a shot shot of hail. Why? Fortunately, a large part of the flex workers have WW rights. Our estimate is that two thirds of people with a flexible contract are entitled to a WW benefit. If they are dismissed, they can go to the UWV to receive a wage-related benefit. That is because a lot of these people have worked with the same employer for more than six months and sometimes nine months. Among them is a very diverse group of students, hybrid workers, who were Mr Van Weyenberg's point; those are people who are part entrepreneurs and are partly employed, who are just start-ups, re-enterers and migrant workers, such as people from Poland and Romania who work here for a few months and then go back. Those people are in the rest group. For that we thought: what can be done? The only thing that is feasible with all kinds of comments from the UWV is; I have also sent the letter to the TOFA-regime. That is a one-off amount in three months for a limited group. I did the motion right. I have done my best to come up with something, but I want to say that there is something arbitrary about this. Why? You take a month, February, and you compare it to another month, April. I am trying to do justice to your Chamber's motion, which has been adopted with 120, 130 seats, but there are dilemmas in its feasibility and orientation. I think it is fair to put that in your Chamber as well. If you ask me to make such an arrangement, I will, but I also think that you should be aware of the risks involved and that you should make a choice in it, so that I do not get blamed for not telling it honestly in three months' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u206	I understand that, but at the same time, it's a group that gets hit really hard. That's why it's important that something happens. I would like to ask a question about something I already touched in my first term. Is it not possible to help a group that is not being helped now by lowering the threshold? I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about this in his term. So you could help such a large group of people who can't pay the rent right now, with all the ifs and buts that are there for this arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u207	It's possible. We made up a reasoning, invented it. An average call force has €830 income. This applies to a large group of people who would be eligible for this scheme. If you took 70% of that amount as a benefit, you'd get that €600 per month. I spoke to the Minister of Finance about this. There is therefore a threshold income which we say is fair; we think is a reasonable group. As a result, people who have substantial income and who have to pay the rent would be eligible for this. I am quite honest in saying that I have only been given a limited mandate by the Minister of Finance. If we're gonna slide amounts, it's gonna have to come back somewhere else in the amounts, but I'm willing to put them in there. I'm willing to think about what can be done there, if your room asks me to, huh? I'm like laundry in your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u208	We were just practicing democracy. I believe the Minister will be given the mandate of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u209	You did, but I don't know if anyone's gonna give it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u210	Not from the colleague in box K, however much he is appreciated for his contribution to the debate so far. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u211	I think that's false, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u212	That is absolutely not the intention. You know that, and so does Mr Hoekstra. We're talking about a billion-dollar package here. In my view, an adjustment to that limit would certainly not be in that order of magnitude and it is a group of people who are in serious trouble. That's why I'm asking the question. I also assume that you will be able to conclude the internal debate on this at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u213	No, then it becomes too much of a budgetary argument, and it is not just that. It's also a legitimacy argument. The lower the amount, the greater the risk of some kind of arbitrary overcompensation. This is also a criterion from the point of view of justice and explainability to people. We have not chosen for nothing the relationship between the income that people had and the level of the benefit. If they are too far apart, for example because someone has happened to work so to speak, I do not think it is fair and explainable if they suddenly get a sum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u214	But that's not something your colleague in the cabinet decides. I think we can all debate what's right. I think that's a fair point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u215	Before we talk past each other, it is not just the budgetary point, because I have an appointment with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u216	No, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u217	It is also the ratio between the threshold and the amount of the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u218	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u219	If the PvdA asks for the amount to be reduced, I'm willing to think about it. I just have to take a closer look at the ratio to the level of the benefit. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u220	That's perfectly right. Only, somewhere earlier in the debate, the Minister accused Mrs Marijnissen that she made it too simple and put it in frames. I wouldn't want to see the Minister fall into the same trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u221	Then why would I do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u222	No, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u223	I don't understand why you would blame me for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u224	Well, it's about the point of justice that I think is being justified here. About some very large companies that pay out bonuses and buy shares...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u225	Then I get it. Okay, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u226	...the cabinet often says: yes, you can't demonize those companies. Now it's about a group all the way across the spectrum. Everyone agrees: you're not going to compensate them for a tenner; it's about people who can't pay the rent. I appeal to you to look fairly at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u227	Yeah, I do. Moreover, I do not think that comparison is entirely appropriate to the situation. When it comes to aid to larger companies, it is about loans or guarantees and not about gifts, so to speak. I don't think that comparison is entirely pure. Apart from that, I didn't send a very comprehensive letter for nothing. But we're gonna have to keep an eye on that affair. If that's what your chamber wants, I'd like a motion. That's what I asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u228	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u229	Yeah, I want an assignment from the Chamber, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u230	We have a lot of motions every week, so we also encourage commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u231	Finally. The last thing I want to say briefly. Mr Klaver, but also Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg asked what the sequel was. I was just saying to Mr Asscher how we can shape this with the social partners. I personally think it is important that we also agreed yesterday to work with the Borstlap Committee and the WRR report. That is also stated in the letter I sent to your Chamber this morning. Indeed, the vulnerability of some groups in the labour market has become very clear over the past two months. We see that a real leg needs to be pulled. This is what we are working on in the long-term stability of the labour market and the equity of the labour market. That is indeed a fair question from Mr Klaver, for example: what is the perspective for the slightly longer term? So that's what we're gonna be working on for the next few months. We've been dealing with the crisis for the past few months. We'd have rigged an arrangement. Now we need to build on the post-crisis phase. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u232	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u233	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the members of your Chamber. There is still a relatively limited number of topics for me. If dinner break starts at 8:00, it should fit my first term. I would like to talk about public finances, and I would like to say a few words about the reforms, which you also mentioned, and I would also like to say a few words about taxation. Frankly, the number of questions before me is relatively limited. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerma asked whether public finances could handle this. At least that's how I understood his question. As far as I am concerned, the answer is yes, also for the second package. And why is that? Well, because we as a country were very good at it before this crisis began: the highest employment ever, a spectacularly low interest rate that we as a country with a triple A rating pay in a low interest rate environment, and public finances that were quite well in order. There was also a very clear "why" to do it, from the perspective of society, but of course just as much from the perspective of the economy and finances. We have done everything we can to keep jobs and to keep businesses through this very difficult phase, and I think that was really necessary. Because what was the alternative? The alternative was that at a staggering pace many people would have lost their jobs. Koolmies just made the comparison with America. Thousands of companies would also have gone more bankrupt by now. Of course, there's another side to it. Mr Baudet (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. What we have done is, of course, without precedent, even financially. There has never been a situation as far as I know, at least not since the war, in which the economy has been so massively laid on the heart-lung machine. A number of speakers referred to this as well: at the moment about one third of the entire state budget, an order of ten times the annual budget of Defense, and so you can go on for a while. And the counter is running, because this package is not in the last sum that the cabinet sent to the Chamber. So, yes, that space is there, but that space is of course not infinite at the same time. It is also the question I often get from citizens. Of course, one day you'll have to pay back that bill. Moreover, I think that you should then do so with a certain degree of graduality. It is not only necessary that it should be repaid. Even if you borrow money very cheaply or even under zero, that money is not free. That bill also has to go down for the next generation, and you know one thing for sure, and that's that there's going to be another crisis. One of the things that I have often had in mind is: how would the country have stood if you had this corona crisis at the height of the financial and economic crisis? The reality is that every seven, eight, nine years something happens, whether it's the banking crisis or the dot-com crisis, which was smaller. Corona is very extreme, of course, but it just happens every so many years. So you're gonna have to deal with public finances later. That just means a great responsibility to everyone. Mr. Chairman. That is what the questions on the purely budgetary side are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u234	Before you continue, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u235	This is exactly where my fear is. I said that my doubts about this package are not so much with everything that is in it, but rather with what is not in it. One is: how will this account eventually be paid? In the end, my great fear is, because we have seen this before in a crisis, that this bill is paid by people with low and middle incomes, people who work in the public sector, by making cuts there. Can this Minister of Finance rule out these accounts being paid by cuts in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u236	I think that in a crisis as extreme as this, with so much uncertainty, it is questionable at all to rule out very big things. At the same time, I very much agree with Mr Klaver that the tragedy of previous crises has often been that people with a small stock market, vulnerable people, have paid the bill. If he asked me if I was willing to do everything in my power to do this in an honest way, to all kinds of groups in society, the answer is absolutely yes. At the same time, we must be realistic, that realism is also in the story about not being able to keep up all the jobs and also in the story about not all companies. As a country, we are really facing a very difficult phase, even with that economy that is opening up again, even if we are facing a nice summer, with terraces that can open up again and companies that can start up ever further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u237	However, I find this worrying, because we determine what that reality is. I think it is of the utmost importance that we agree here: in any case, this crisis is not going to be paid for by all those people we have applauded, who are not going to be paid for by cutting back on care, education, the police or the enforcers. But that is what is threatening, of course. That is why my group constantly insists: let us please agree that large companies will pay back their support, that we will increase the tax on profits, that we can also increase the tax on dividends, which fortunately is still there. In other words, we have to make these agreements with each other, because I am already getting reports from people in the care who say that they are now falling apart, that they are working all the way out to get this country back to health, and then they are going to be cut back. I would like to hear from the Finance Minister that we are simply not going to do that. Whatever happens, left or right, we have to pay that bill, I know, but it's not going to end up in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u238	To help Mr Klaver a little bit: I just said that with a crisis of this magnitude, where this cabinet has only a small year to go, you can't rule out all kinds of things for now and for all eternity. At the same time, I have said here, in this place, but also in the press, that I am very motivated to ensure that this account does not fall on the vulnerable and not on the middle class. The recipe for public finances in order as soon as possible, but at great social costs and heavy burdens for citizens, especially at the bottom, I also find economically really unwise, as well as that I do not think it is fair. That, of course, already gives a great deal of direction. However, I would like to be a little bit critical of what Mr Klaver says. I can go a long way with what Mr Wilders just said about the primacy of politics, but Mr Klaver just said: we decide what that reality is. This suggests that our small country, with the whole internationally oriented economy, is not able to achieve the full 100%. If only we all had a string, some might think. The reality is that we can strike a number of stakes, but with all these measures we cannot determine that all these jobs will be preserved. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u239	Finally. When I say that we determine reality, I am not talking about the development of the virus or of the world economy. We have no influence on that, but how we deal with it is what lies within our sphere of influence. I say that we determine that reality. During last week's debate, the Prime Minister said that you cannot and cannot follow Piketty and want the best for the economy. But in the end, they are political choices that are the basis for this. It's a choice whether you cut back on the public sector or say we're gonna make it to the millionaires, the billionaires, the big business. That is indeed the reality that we ourselves determine, and I would point out that. I look forward to making sure that the Chamber is united, together with the Cabinet, because otherwise I know what will happen: it will fall down on those people with the lowest incomes and middle incomes and the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u240	I understand that the Prime Minister has stimulated Mr. Klaver with that quote about Piketty. As far as I am concerned, and then we come straight to the next part of the answer, the discussion is mainly about reforms and how to proceed. That is a discussion that we will start with each other in the summer and which will be about next year's budget. If Mr Klaver were to ask me if we would then be done with it, my answer is absolutely not. Because I think we all recognise that one of the reasons that the Netherlands has been able to do what it has done is that public finances were in order. The mission is not to pour everything back into the state treasury in six months or a year, which would also be God's impossible, but to ensure that buffers are built up again. This does not only mean that the next budget will be affected, it also means that there will be an assignment for a next cabinet. The next cabinet will probably have to re-assess this at several times, because there is still so much unclear. Mr. Chairman. A number of things have already been said about reforms, including those by my fellow Members, and I will add a few things to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u241	Before you proceed, Mr Azarkan on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u242	At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. When I look at page 5 of 21, the cabinet says that we are not going to cut back in the current phase of the crisis. This seems like a promise that I have a bit of a hard time embracing, in the sense that I don't know exactly what's in there. Does that mean as long as this crisis continues, or is that just this year? Before we get to the question of who's going to pay for the crisis and where we're going to get the money, I want to know exactly what's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u243	What you see in that, and what should also be the conclusion of this debate and, by the way, from the previous debate, is that the cabinet, the government, has helped the economy and society in an unprecedented way. For excellent reasons, by the way, because I think it is very sensible that we have done so. In the end, the treasury is a means and not a goal. It is a very important means and a very crucial one in the long term, but it is ultimately a means. You want well-being and prosperity for as many people as possible. So that's what we've done now. That's exactly why Wiebes has said that you have to draw the wallet at this stage. Soon we'll be in another phase, where you'll have to do a few things at the same time. Then you'll know you're facing a much higher unemployment rate. What are you gonna do on that property? So how do you get companies to move on? I expect sectors that will run at more than 100% and will have a lot of catching-up growth, but also sectors that will be extremely difficult. I also expect major differences between sectors. Think for example of a café with a large terrace and a bit of a nice summer, that might go well. But if you have a discotheque, you have a completely different reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u244	I understand. That's some kind of "Hugo de Jonge" as an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u245	I'll take that as a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u246	Sure, sure, well, he's also a competitor of yours as far as party leadership is concerned. My question was very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u247	What's this about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u248	The Minister writes: Princess Day is the next possibility that we will come back in terms of analysis and then we will discuss with each other what ideas exist in the cabinet to arrive at funding. He is talking about next year's budget. Do I read here that there will be no cuts this year? I don't understand exactly what's written here. Aren't we gonna cut back in the next few days? Or as long as we don't master Corona? Is it just this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u249	I think I have just been crystal clear about it, also towards Mr Klaver. I also mentioned it in the debate earlier this week to a colleague of Mr Azarkan's group, when we are talking about party dynamics. Mr Asscher did it very skillfully when he was debating with another party, but let me try to resist that temptation. It's out of the question right now. I'm from the school that thinks you should do what's right for society and for the economy. Putting public finances in order is too narrow a lens. However, I would like to point out that we all have a responsibility to put these public finances back in order in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u250	Okay, then I suggest you move on. You said you didn't have so many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u251	No, Mr President, but I'm not much further than question one and a half. I've had questions from Baudet and Heerma. We had walked into the reform block. Mr Heerma asked if we could prevent a new lockdown. That's hugely important. Of course, he is absolutely right about that. In a way, I think, that is more of a question that belongs in the medical debate than here, but those two things do of course affect each other. The answer is that we all do that. If we manage to keep our distance, wash hands, stay at home in case of illness, pay extra attention and take account of the vulnerable in society, that will work. That requires some of the companies involved in enforcement. That requires some of us as a cabinet. That also demands something from us as citizens of this country. Because we decide at what rate we will keep the virus under control, or that we will have another difficult situation in a moment. The next question, I think, was Heerma's and some of Baudet's. It was about the collateral damage, or in good Dutch the "opportunity cost." Of course, it's huge. The debate often focuses on the economic damage. It's phenomenally large. In fact, I see that in three areas. I believe Asscher touched the first area: there is a huge medical opportunity cost, because all kinds of cancer diagnoses have been missed. There are all kinds of people with cardiovascular problems who aren't being seen right now. A huge amount of drugs from the elderly has not been collected out of fear of getting the virus. So there's a huge opportunity cost in the medical domain. The second is the domain of society. Think of kids who can't get out of a small home, domestic violence and that kind of trouble. The third is the economy. I think the task is, also towards the future, to weigh that whole palette in policy every time. Let me now turn to the reforms. Mrs Marijnissen asked for that too. She specifically asked about the Vpb. That's a discussion that belongs in August. This also applies to questions by Mr Van Weyenberg on the labour market climate. I think they have already been answered to an important extent by Wiebes. Koolmees, in response to the Chamber, I think I quite rightly noted that if something proved to be right about Borstlap, it is this crisis: people with flexible jobs were indeed as vulnerable as, or even more vulnerable than in his report. I believe that Mrs Van Brenk's question has also been answered. I am very much in line with what Wiebes said about the investment fund. I shall say a few words about this to Mrs Ouwehand in a moment. As stated in the Millions Note, the idea behind it was to do something structural, not to do something cyclical. This is true in bad weather and in good weather. We are going to talk about this in detail. In the Millions note and in the growth letter were the first contours. At a later point, we would very much like to discuss with the Chamber exactly how we want to fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u252	The Minister said very quickly that the reduction of the tax on profits will come back in August. We're hopeful about that. We picked up some noises from the coalition today. We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u253	I hope not on the basis of what I said. We are in danger of getting into a misunderstanding. If I may say so: I have wanted to say in general that the debate on reforms in all kinds of areas - breastlap, taxation and what we all have under the sun - justifies a debate in the summer on next year's budget, also given corona. What the cabinet and the coalition are going to do is now written in the stars.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u254	Then I'll come to my question exactly. In view of the debate we have just had, we do not want to see the people we are so hard hitting for care, but also the people in the shops who will soon be the people who will have to pay the bill for the crisis. Surely it would be only right for the cabinet, at least now, at this time of crisis, to give up the extra tax advantage for the big companies that are doing well and making that profit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u255	I have just tried to say, however, that I would like to reiterate that we, the cabinet but also myself, will make every effort to ensure that it is fair, especially for those with rather narrow shoulders, especially for those with vulnerable jobs, knowing that you can promise very difficult things................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As far as the specific issues are concerned, I think it is really wise to be patient with each other, although I recognise that Mrs Marijnissen is already eager to answer some questions in advance for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u256	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u257	Then there were a few small tax questions. In short, the tax package from the first round will be extended in the second round. We discussed Mrs Marijnissen's question on the Vpb. Mrs Ouwehand asked for something that goes in the same direction. If I understand correctly, she also asked why the cabinet is not increasing taxes on labour and pollution. Those are really structural discussions, in which the views of the Party for Animals are not always entirely congruent with those of the Cabinet. But this is typically something that belongs in the longer-term discussion. Mr Stoffer asked about the ODE. The arrangement as it is, of course, he knows. Soothing or adjusting taxes is a path we shouldn't go on. We've already had those discussions. There are also SMEs who have said: can't the bank just cancel my debts? The regulations that we have rigged, which are very substantial and very generous, must comply with them, precisely in order to ensure that you have the opportunity to postpone, but not to postpone, tax. Because then we're gonna throw a lot of things together and make the system more vulnerable. I hope I can find him on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u258	A little correction. The Minister spoke about taxes on labour and taxes on pollution. The idea is: the tax on labour down and the tax on pollution up. It is true that today we are debating the packages that are now before us, but it was also a major debate. What opportunities do we see for the future to keep the economy healthy, resilient and sustainable? I understand that we are going to have a more extensive discussion about this, but I would appreciate it if the cabinet could say: yes, we are going to investigate this seriously, because it is just a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u259	I have also seen this debate as a major debate. And then I failed Mrs Ouwehand when I thought she wanted to raise the tax. It will then have become all the more enthusiastic about what the cabinet has already done in terms of reducing taxes, especially in terms of reducing income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u260	Mrs Ouwehand is not ready and Mr Stoffer is also waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u261	We are not that enthusiastic, because we have not necessarily seen this increase in pollution taxes. We believe that bigger steps are possible. This is the boss of the state treasury, and I imagine he doesn't want there to be a huge hole in it all of a sudden. If you significantly reduce taxes on labour, a very sensible measure, because jobs are now very expensive, then that money has to come from somewhere else. Where can you get that? The pollution that is now far too cheap. That's a very promising idea. We simply have to take a decision in principle today: are we going that way or are we not going that way? And then it's gonna work out later. And then there are debates about it. But does the minister feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u262	I wonder, above all, if I may say so carefully here too, where the Party for Animals' lack of enthusiasm for the tax reduction on income came from rather than from this cabinet period. By the way, there really is a huge difference in the size of those two types of load. So I think you should turn that pollution button even harder than even Mrs Ouwehand thinks it would be wise to create something of materiality at all on the revenue side. More in width, I say the following. The cabinet has, of course, taken very substantial steps in the area of climate and nature, with nitrogen, with Urgenda and with last year's Climate Agreement. I recognize, also because of my debates with Mr Van Raan, that the Party for Animals wants even more. However, I believe that these are steps in the right direction and that this has been considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u263	Then let me give this minister, as the keeper of the state treasury, the following. This morning in Trouw it was said that 11 billion was invested in nature policy. It didn't help. Why is that? The cause of the decline of nature, which is naturally agriculture to a large extent, and also the fragmentation of roads and so on, has not been addressed. So you let the pollution and destruction continue, then you have to throw 11 billion against it from the state treasury, and then you have nothing. You'll have an even worse quality of nature. That is exactly what the cabinet is going to do again with the nitrogen approach. There's gonna be 5 billion and it's not gonna solve the problems. Of course, we're gonna have to get rid of this sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u264	Is it not true, however, that if you add up what the Cabinet is doing in the area of climate and what the Cabinet is doing in the area of nitrogen........................................................................................................................................................................................ There is a great deal about this in terms of nature and climate. There are also people who say: that is quite up to the mark. I therefore hope that Mrs Ouwehand will be able to be inspired by what the cabinet is already doing in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u265	Then I'll make one compliment for this year's goals. That is the Urgenda statement for 2020. It seems that the cabinet is now doing what is necessary. Thank you for that. But of course we're not here yet. I cannot go into the debate on nitrogen with this Minister, because that is complicated enough for its own agriculture minister. I can say that to everyone's satisfaction. However, that package is really a waste of money, as the Minister knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u266	Mr Wiebes knows all about it, as I said earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u267	The Minister indicated that he was trying to get me on his side for the ODE tax. I'll try the other way around. There is one difference for us. Last year we pushed up the ODE tax, but for one category. There are four levels, but don't let me make it too hard. The third level is about medium-sized enterprises. The Minister knows what I am talking about, for example, the greenhouse horticulture, which is already having such a difficult time. It has received a huge amount of storage, a very large peak of 174%, if I have the percentage right. At least the percentage is close to that. What if you just let that go a year later? I understand that's a little tricky to organize, but it's possible. Where there's a will, there's a way. That would be a huge help to this sector. My question, therefore, is whether you can align this with all the other levels for that particular sector. It means for a number of companies, which have already had a hard time with this, that they might just be able to make it. So I'm really gonna make the call once to do something about the ODE levy for that group, and especially for greenhouse horticulture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u268	I think Mr Stoffer is right to say that it is not as simple as you might want, if you already want it. I understand that we are now talking about postponement and not delay, which I believe he was asking for. For the record, we're buying more time here, too. Here again, the payment obligation is at a later date. I think that's real, but it's part of my portfolio and part of others'. Let's do it like this. Let's agree to keep a close eye on how things are going. I think that all kinds of parts of this debate will be re-established later. I would suggest that we do the same here. For the moment, I think this is a really sensible line, but the cabinet is always willing to keep its finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u269	Please continue. Mr. Stoffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u270	This also applies more broadly to taxation. We are delaying a lot, but we are postponing again now. So we are always taking a step, depending on how reality has developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u271	It sounds good, but it also sounds a little Lubberian. Because I don't know exactly what this is going to do. What are we watching and where is that going? What does it mean in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u272	I was just trying to calibrate whether I should consider it a big compliment. Actually, I thought I did. By the way, I am not entirely sure that Mr Stoffer meant that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u273	I was a fan of Prime Minister Lubbers, you know. So as far as that goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u274	...it's a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u275	Mr President, I am about to blush. But still a little while. For each of these measures in the field of taxation, it is important that we really keep our finger on the pulse. We see that tens of billions of applications for postponement were made during the first package. Moreover, this delay is now much smaller, but that is purely because the same entrepreneurs continue in this scheme. And you could say that ODE is kind of a special thing in there. Here too, there is a delay. By the way, you still have a discussion with energy suppliers. It also differs by energy supplier how easy these calls are. I understand. But I have been introduced relatively little in this area. My proposal to Mr Stoffer is that we monitor this, that we inform the Chamber about it, as far as I am concerned, well before the end of this package, and that we talk again. Mr. Chairman. Now that I have also contented Mr Stoffer, I am going to Mr Segers. He asked about the treatment of equity and debt. Let me begin by saying that I understand that question very well. In essence, this debate is about the resilience of society, and I think the debate over the coming months too, not to say in the years to come. I think we have to recognise that public finances were quite resilient. The situation is different in many other countries, but in the Netherlands we were and are quite resilient. Fortunately, we do not yet suffer from this, because if you look at the debt position of Dutch households, there are all kinds of things on the plus side of the balance sheet in the area of pensions and houses, but the Dutch have the highest debts in Europe after Denmark. The Dutch also have a relatively low price, which is called "disposable income" in professional jargon. I think you should look at all these vulnerabilities and see how to proceed with them. At the same time, Mr Segers will acknowledge that we have, of course, already taken very substantial steps, precisely in that balance between equity and debt. Think of the minimum capital rule, think of the ATAD Directive. A lot's happened already. We also need foreign capital, because it also helps entrepreneurs to borrow and then to invest. So there are several layers in it, but I very much agree with him that these broader vulnerabilities in and after this summer deserve an answer from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand's question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u276	Mr Segers has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u277	Thank you for that answer. Would it be an idea to look towards the new tax plan at proposals to further narrow the gap in tax treatment between foreign and equity? We do see this vulnerability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u278	In my view, it should first be analysed to what extent this is still a problem, and therefore after the measures taken by the cabinet. Then you have to answer the question which type of solution would fit best, if there is a problem. That is what I would like to do, and I would really like to give the Secretary of State for Finance the opportunity to do so. I do recognize, therefore my introduction, that all kinds of vulnerabilities have come to light and that you also have to acknowledge that Dutch companies carry a relatively large amount of debt. On the one hand, this often leads to extra business and additional investment, and that can also be done because of the low interest rate climate. But on the other hand, it also means vulnerability. In that light and with that framework, I would like to put that question to the Secretary of State for Finance. I promise Mr Segers that we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u279	For the record, anyway. So I am now getting the commitment to look at it, to look at it, to examine it, and possibly to look at proposals to reduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u280	In my view, Mr Segers is extending my proposals a little further. In fact, I would like to stick to my answer that I would like to leave it with the Secretary of State in the wider context of vulnerabilities. Is this a problem that we have to solve and, if so, what is the answer? I would like to put that question to the Secretary of State. Then we can have a discussion. In any case, he is looking more broadly at how things should look not only in the short and medium term, but also in the long term. I would point out, however, that there are often political views about such a system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u281	Sure. Thank you for this commitment. It is helpful in that long journey to a healthy business environment. A second question. The cabinet has said that it will also look at solvency and that it may have an obligation to jump in. So there may also be a responsibility for the cabinet. Does the bail-in system then apply, so that the risk is spread out and the government, which is now stepping in, also benefits from it when there is something to distribute again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u282	Of course, it starts with something very fundamental: money that we, politics, spend, is not political. It's not ours. It's not mine either, the Minister of Finance. It is taxpayers' money, money that companies have earned with hard work and that Dutch people have earned with very hard work. So it is our great responsibility to spend that money carefully. I say it without a reproach: many have referred to it in the debate, but yet the wishes expressed always went up and never down. In the coming years, however, it will be our task to grow both the economy and to keep society alive and bring public finances back into line. That'll be the assignment. I think it is perfectly logical that everyone who stands on the doorstep of the cabinet, whether it be the public authorities or the municipalities or the business community or anyone else, should be interviewed to see what a fair distribution of the account is. The taxpayers' money is not free either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u283	I fully agree with these words. But does that mean in concrete terms that one looks at such a bail-in system, at such a bail-in option with which one spreads the risk and hopefully also benefits from the returns in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u284	For the record. The logic of a bail-in has been one of the lessons of the banking crisis. You have to park the account not only with the taxpayer, but also and primarily with the shareholders. That's where the term "bail-in" comes from. I am very motivated to apply it more broadly, because that is just fair. This reciprocity is fair, and that is why we are trying to apply it more broadly. We are actually doing this wherever we can, see the examples in the scheme. We pay 90% to a company, but that company will have to pay 100% of the wage. See also the discussion with the KLM. We demand a lot of things back when a loan is put in and the government is going to guarantee it. So I very much agree with the principle of bail-in. Should that group of about 3,500 companies.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that's a wise idea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u285	Then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u286	The Minister rightly stresses that you can only spend a euro once and that there are always many wishes in the Chamber that cost money. That's definitely a hit, I think. But, of course, many proposals have been made today, which can make a contribution. If you say that people with very large assets contribute a little more; if you say that a recent study showed that there was 200 billion more among a small group of people with a lot of money in their e.g. 200 billion that they hadn't had in mind in Finance before if you do something about tax constructions, about the deductibility of loans against all kinds of constructions that cause companies to be burdened with debt, then those are proposals that are not only very sensible and very just, but which also produce ordinary money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u287	Mr Van Weyenberg is right about that. But if I make a distinction between the comments on the package, then the comments on the package had only upward pressure, while the comments on the long-term also included proposals that could generate money. By the way, this was often about burden increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u288	Yes, but these are burdens on pollution or on very large assets, or where money is parked in a way that does not require paying taxes. I also saw fine proposals in Europe, for example on the taxation of the tech nical. It's been going on for a while. But with these revenues, for example, you can reduce taxes on work, and that is something that I think we all want. I had another question in connection with Mr Segers' question, which said: take that foreign and equity with you when you think. I would ask the Minister to include this in my group chairman's adopted motion to ensure that companies also pay a fair share. I also ask him to look at the Ter Haar committee, which has made very concrete suggestions. It was a broad committee, also with all kinds of people from tax advisory practice, who said: you win hundreds of millions if you can do something about tax avoidance. I hope that these two things will come together too, because I believe that this is also the justice we are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u289	Sure. It may have been hidden, but that was also the essence of my answer. The Secretary of State is looking more broadly at the tax system. There are all kinds of elements in that, which Mr Van Weyenberg also mentions. The Secretary of State comes back to this separately from the political opportunity and the feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u290	Is the Minister still coming to KLM separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u291	I'm encouraged by the chairman to do it even faster...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u292	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u293	...so I actually want to skip that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u294	I can imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u295	A lot of comments have been made on this, but I do not know whether so many questions have been asked. Of course, I do not want to fail Mr Van Weyenberg either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u296	Very briefly. My question was: now that, unfortunately, as a shareholder, it has not managed to do something about Smith's bonus, is the cabinet going to raise this point in the discussions on that guarantee, so that at least it can do the best it can to get that bonus off the table? Because we are having debates here today on arrangements that are being extended, but also on arrangements that we are taking a step back. And that imbalance, I know that the Minister who agrees with me is extremely frustrating and, as far as I am concerned, completely inexplicable. So I am counting on this Minister to make every effort to keep trying, unfortunately not as a shareholder, but perhaps as a provider of guarantees, to get that bonus off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u297	Mr. Chairman. There have already been several debates with the Finance Committee on this subject. Part of the answer lies, I think, in everything that has been discussed there. I very much agree that, regardless of whether we are shareholders of something, when a company is on the doorstep of the Dutch government and says "I need additional help outside of all arrangements," it is perfectly logical that you make agreements about dividends, about salaries and about bonuses. So I very much agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. I have also said before that this makes the conversations more difficult. I could not prevent this with 14% of the shares, because the majority of the shareholders voted in favour, although a number of them abstained, by the way. That is what I have to say about this in public at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u298	Mr Van Weyenberg again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u299	I have also heard the Minister angry before saying 'we're not going to do that' and I assume that he will take that same combatibility to the negotiating table. I'm not one of them, and that happens behind closed doors, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u300	As Mr Van Weyenberg continues, I have one more comment to make. I'm very motivated. I find it really not explainable either, but there is a difference between a Dutch company, or a Dutch subsidiary, that knocks on the door and in which you invest directly, and a foreign holding company, where a large part of shareholders from both Europe and from places outside Europe have very different views about salaries and bonuses than here in the Netherlands. I would remind you that our bonus legislation is the strictest in Europe, and that people have different views on it. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to do justice to Mrs Ouwehand's question about the investment fund. I understand it so much that she said: can we also agree on the reduction of livestock farming? My proposal would be precisely because Mr Wiebes and I still have to come to the Chamber with the proposal on the investment fund, in order to involve it. I think that's the place and the time. I thought I saw her make a positive cautious head movement, so if she agrees, I'd love to. We will do so without the Minister of LNV, I say to reassure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u301	Maybe we can do some good business then, yeah. My question was actually about what happened to ornamental farming. Then suddenly there's such a package to support ornamental farming. And so I know because I read the Farm, Pig Business, AgriBusiness, all that agricultural press that there is a huge plea to support everything in livestock farming. So I do not want us suddenly to get another package of so many million for livestock farming. That's actually the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u302	More generally, I do recognize that many of these packages were suddenly there. To put that in perspective: take the NOW scheme of Koolmees. I'll talk for him. That is the kind of arrangement that cabinet and execution would have been working on in normal times for a month or nine, and that would have been stressed out and adapted. We've been putting it together in a couple of weeks. People have been working hard on that. Then, of course, we continued with the TOGS.... still such an ugly name, but a very good thing... from Minister Wiebes. Then we brought new companies under the TOGS, because we saw that the first design was just not complete enough. Then we came to sectors that are in the strange circumstance that they do not, like a café, do nothing at all and therefore do not make sales, but which run almost 100% capacity and then push everything, or almost everything, they get from the country just through the cutting machine. That's where we've been trying to screw up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u303	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u304	For the sake of clarity, we have supported the fact that the NOW scheme came soon, but that suddenly there is 600 million for ornamental farming, whereas, for example, the cultural sector had to settle for half... In the press it was written: that was a successful lobby of agriculture; they did well, in their own ministry! That's just what the papers said. Yeah, then there's just a difference in lobby power. So I do not want us to suddenly see another package before this strong agricultural lobby, with the problems in livestock farming that they could have seen coming in a long time ago, while people who are somehow less well-heard in The Hague are going to have to do so with much less. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u305	I am going to make it worse for Mrs Ouwehand: out of my mind it was 660 million, because the fries potatoes were also there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u306	Please continue. Oh, you were ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u307	Yes, Mr President, you have hunted me down so much that I would like to leave it at that, if your Chamber will allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u308	That's fine. You were here all night on Tuesday, too. Oh, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, and yes, of course, the Minister for Social Affairs has two more points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u309	I think Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is looking at the Minister of SZW, or was I too hopeful?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u310	I had asked the question: what is the bonus for health care workers? For my generally adopted motion calls not only for the hands to be turned blue for the care workers, which we certainly must do, but they also deserve financial support. That motion was adopted unanimously. I've already gotten a lot of questions and e-mails. Where's the bonus? You have already said that there will be, but I do not know when. Is there more insight into that and why isn't it in this package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u311	I very much agree, on behalf of the entire cabinet, with that motion. That motion lies primarily with the US ministers and they will come back to it. I suspect before the summer, but please keep me on track of the exact timing. It's been discussed, but I don't know exactly when it's coming. I only have the dark brown suspicion that Mr Asscher does not approve of the current Minister for Medical Care interfering too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u312	Summer. It's gonna take a while. It's already nice weather, but the summer is still waiting. I would therefore very much like to have the undertaking that the Minister will contact his colleagues in the VWS and ask when that will come and that it will be communicated. I would also like to hear what the height will be, so that it will not be a €25 voucher, but that it may be a thirteenth month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u313	I will call Mr Van Rijn and Mr De Jonge. I meant before the summer recess, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u314	From 2020. Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. Oh, wait. I forget you every time, Minister Koolmees. Then we wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u315	Mr President, two more things. The first is a correction of what I said in my first term. I said about the draft law on the RVU tax that it's back from the Council of State. That's not right. It has to go to the Council of State and before the end of the summer it goes to the House of Representatives. That's a correction. Then there is the second point. Mrs Van Brenk and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen have asked about the AOW and the Tozo. AOW beneficiaries are not eligible for the Tozo life support, as the income of this group is already guaranteed to the social minimum. They do qualify for the Tozo company capital. For people with an incomplete AOW, the AIO, the supplementary income provision of the elderly, and who, as a welfare scheme, has a capital test. For the AIO, the size of the capacity to release is equal to the capacity to release before the ordinary Participation Act. There's free power in that. The capital limit in the Participation Act, which is part of the AIO, applies to anyone over 18 years of age who wants to call on the general assistance. As Secretary of State Van Ark pointed out earlier, there is no reason to amend the Participation Act with the aim of setting deviating capital limits exclusively for pensionable entrepreneurs. Again, I read to you. I have no idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u316	Of course that all sounds very nice, but the fact remains that the AIO has a power test and the Tozo-regime is not. There's a difference in that that can't be explained. For people with a small AOW... that depends on your way of life.... can be a few hundred euros or more. You can have an incomplete AOW because you worked and lived abroad for a while. There are a lot ofzzp'ers over 65 years of age who now have a huge income loss. As far as I'm concerned, it's really hard to explain that all those people are being referred to the AIO, who knows a power test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u317	This is actually covered by the standard arrangements for assistance. Those apply to everyone. One particular thing that Mrs Van Ark has done is the exception to the Tozo business capital. I believe that was at Mrs Van Brenn's request. The Secretary of State does not intend to amend the Participation Act for this purpose. It's been communicated before, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u318	If it's going to be a repeat of questions and answers, I'm going to intervene. Yes, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u319	Yeah, they can use a loan. But that's a loan, and they obviously don't know how to repay it with God in this situation. So these people are 65 years of age or older, at least they're entitled to AOW, and they're making an income drop. Then it is very bitter that you are referred to an arrangement that does have a power key, and that with an incomplete AOW or with a very small AOW' you really fall into a huge hole. There's got to be something we can do about that. This is just age discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u320	So it's not, because the AIO is meant to complement the AOW, just to get the minimum income. This is actually an element of assistance for over-retirement age. And that's what the power test is for. If you want that to be different, we really need to change the Participation Act fundamentally, and that really requires a little more work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u321	No. Thank you. We're going to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u322	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for the debate and the answers. For me, there are two important things that have stuck here. The first is the debate I had with the Minister of Finance. The question was: who pays the bill? Something pretty unheard of is happening. For the second time, we are discussing such a huge package, which involves billions of people, without any cover being provided. And we know this has to be paid back sometime. I am very, very concerned about the fact that we are going to pick this up from citizens in this country and from the public sector. And that concern has not diminished after the debate with this cabinet. I'm worried that we're going to pick it up there later, when I really think we need to make a radically different choice, and we need to get the money from millionaires, billionaires and big business. I have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government spends many billions of taxpayers' money to support large companies;]] [[believes that large companies will have to pay back this aid if they start to make profits again;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to reduce the profit tax by 2.4 billion from 2021;]] [[Whereas there are still gaps in the law that allow companies to avoid taxing profits;]] [[calls on the Government to increase the tax on profitable companies by 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u323	Mr. Chairman. I have a second motion because I am not satisfied with the balance in the package. There was a discussion about how we deal with thezzp'ers. I understand you're looking at that tax, but there's really gonna have to be more balance in it. I think thatzzp'ers should borrow now, not big companies. I don't like that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the VNO-NCW's wishes have been met and the support package 2.0 for employers has been substantially extended and extended;]] [[whereas the support package 2.0 forzzp'ers is precisely limited by means of a partner test;]] [[Whereas there is a gift in large companies, whereas a loan is only available for some of thezzp'ers;]] [[calls on the government to increase the balance of the support package 2.0 in favour of flex workers, students andzzp'ers;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Wilders and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u324	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers. In particular, the intermediate solution around the Tozo and the partner test, which I asked for, is not feasible. I made that out of the answer, but I think we are going to talk about this further, even in the legislative consultation. This is a shame. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current crisis requires a great deal of adaptability in our economy;]] [[whereas the government is taking steps in this direction by linking the promotion of training to the NOW as a condition, with "NL learns by starting" and encouraging social partners to use R & D funds;]] [[Whereas it is very important that workers and people who unexpectedly lose their jobs are adequately supported by (re) training or from-work-to-work paths towards sectors with better job opportunities to avoid long periods of unemployment and reduce the negative impact of the crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to make further arrangements for sufficient investment for workers, workers in work-to-work paths and workers who have lost their jobs in the development of the work agenda, while exploring how these investments can strengthen the existing initiatives of R&D funds and other (regional) initiatives on Lifelong Learning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the event of a continuing economic crisis, young people are particularly exposed to higher unemployment;]] [[Whereas the current package of measures focuses on job retention and income recovery;]] [[Whereas a bad start in the labour market may continue to affect the earning capacity and labour market position of these young people for a long time to come;]] [[calls on the government to look explicitly at the position of entrants in the labour market in the development of policies after the second emergency package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-46]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Palland and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u325	For the third round, I call on the cabinet to develop policies for a great deal now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u326	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I've got three motions. The first one is about maintaining the dismissal penalty. I think it would be very unwise to delete him. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to include the dismissal penalty set out in the first aid package (NOW 1) in the second aid package (NOW 2),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u328	The second motion, I think, concerns one of the most serious injustices, namely the treatment of the self-employed, thezzp'ers, to which I have already referred. There was also a rather shocking article this morning in the morning's newspaper, De Telegraaf, in which people said that they really don't have a penny left and that if they have a partner, they simply go to welfare level or be supplemented themselves. I really do not understand why the cabinet, which is also made up of so-called liberal parties, will allow this to happen, especially if you compare it with people who are employed and who are paid their wages completely. So I hope to give them other ideas with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to immediately delete the partner income test in the Tozo 2 scheme, which means that manyzzp's are no longer entitled to financial compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u329	Then the final motion, on the second part of my contribution in the first term. We will also have to look more at ourselves, put the Netherlands on one side and go back to national interest. This does not include fröbel and spending money on bankrupt or technically bankrupt countries in Europe. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to accept more money and/or guarantees for EU Member States, whether they are loans or grants;]] [[calls on the Government to refer the EUR 750 billion recovery fund to the trash bin;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to the introduction of European taxes in any form whatsoever or to increase the EU budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u330	Mr President, thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, at the request of the Chamber, the Government has proposed a safety net for flex workers, TOFA;]] [[noting that this safety net gives flex workers some certainty about an income, but that many flex workers, including students, are not eligible for this because of the threshold amount;]] [[calls on the government to increase the target group for the safety net scheme for flex workers, with an appropriate amount of benefit, and to return to this in its impact;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona crisis is putting pressure on jobs and, in addition, people in heavy occupations are anxious to get a healthy pension;]] [[Calls on the Government to come forward with proposals for early-stop working arrangements in this corona crisis, in consultation with the social partners;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u331	Mr. Chairman. Then I thank the rulers for their answers. We wish them every success in the coming weeks, which I think will be very intensive. The last thing I would like to ask them is: come back independently with proposals for those sectors we talked about, sectors where money is not just about money, but also about money. It really takes more than that to get out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u332	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u333	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas AOW entitled self-employed entrepreneurs are not entitled to special income support under the same conditions as younger self-employed entrepreneurs if their income falls below the social minimum due to the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas, unlike younger self-employed entrepreneurs in the Tozo scheme, self-employed AOW entrepreneurs in the AlO are subject to a capital limit of €6,225 (single) and €12,450 (pair) for income supplements up to the social minimum;]] [[calls on the Government to provide independent entrepreneurs under and above the age of AOW on equal terms with special assistance under the Tozo scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a result, the Participation Act does not need to be amended, but as far as we are concerned it can be done within the Tozo. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas for all workers seriously affected by the corona crisis, efforts should be directed towards income support and job recovery;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor in detail and to report to the Chamber to what extent existing arrangements for WW and (special) assistance can best serve this purpose;]] [[calls on the government, together with the social partners, UWV and municipalities, to focus policies on providing guidance from work to work and getting back to work through increased training and more personal employment, making the most of labour market opportunities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas permanent damage to the economy and employment caused by the corona crisis should be minimised as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to make the NOW conditional that workers who are now to be made redundant should, as a matter of priority, return to employment under equal working conditions and with due regard for the principle of reflection, if NOW-aid recipients resume hiring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-54]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u335	You let time pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u336	No, you know that very well. It's very annoying. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u337	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their answers and for their enormous commitment to this impressive package. I would also particularly like to thank them for their efforts to get out with the polder and to find a common path in it. It's really worth congratulating you for doing that. I shall now read out my motion very quickly before the chairman is displeased, because we should not have that. My motion is about the future. The black swans; that's what I believe it was, isn't it? If they come by, what is the justified attitude of all of us, and in particular the cabinet? I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in times of crisis many companies rely on public financial support;]] [[whereas this aid is accompanied by conditions relating, for example, to dividend payments and bonus policies, but it is not possible to impose retroactive conditions on general management;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to support those companies that now and in the future meet corporate social responsibility and meet conditions regarding, for example, their solvency, wage structure and sustainability;]] [[Whereas prior conditions for companies during and outside crisis time can contribute to the economic prosperity of society, to healthy activity and to greater security for companies and their employees;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the establishment of responsible general management as a condition for future public support can in future provide more security to companies, employees and society, both during and outside crisis time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u338	I wish them strength in the execution and in everything that remains ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u339	Thank you, Mr Segers. Right in time, neat. Mr Aartsen has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u340	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you to the directors for the answers and commitments. I don't have any motions, but I do have two calls. I did the first one in part in my first term. That is the call, as with the first package, to remain open to practical stories, to entrepreneurs who run into bottlenecks, even if things will hopefully get better in the future. If there are certain areas or sectors that run into something, please let us remain open to it. My second appeal is: take good care of implementation and implementation organisations. After all, a motion adopted or a proposal adopted does not mean that the money is in that entrepreneur's account or that problems have been solved. That's what we need these people for. It would be a shame if we overloaded them, also in view of what is going to happen after this second package, because then too many regulations will be needed. Perhaps the cabinet will be able to say something about that as well. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u341	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u342	Thank you. Mr Wilders just called to me that I do not have a motion but a book. So I'm going to read to you very quickly to make sure that I stay within the time, because the President is very strict today. My motion is about reshoring. The Minister indicated that he had doubts as to whether the think tank was the right place for that. I am happy that the Minister is also looking at other places, but I would like the think tank to look at them in particular. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis highlights the vulnerability of international production chains;]] [[Considering that much production has moved to India and China in recent decades;]] [[Whereas the manufacturing industry is an important engine for the Dutch economy;]] [[Whereas reshoring can reduce dependence on vulnerable production chains and strengthen our economy and employment;]] [[calls on the government to request a short-term opinion on how reshoring can strengthen the manufacturing industry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Aartsen, Mr Segers, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u343	Time goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u344	...in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government subsidises salaries of €9.538 per month with taxpayers' money under the NOW scheme;]] [[Whereas this means a redistribution of wealth to wealth, and public money is not intended for this purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to limit the eligible salaries to a maximum of €5,200 (twice modal),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u346	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that student entrepreneurs under the age of 27 do not have access to the Tozo, but are referred to DUO to take up an additional loan;]] [[Whereas this group also consists of independent entrepreneurs, has invested money and has a fixed burden on their companies;]] [[Whereas age-time discrimination is undesirable here too;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the conditions for the Tozo in such a way that student entrepreneurs also have access to this scheme if they operate an undertaking of at least a substantial size to be determined,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u347	I should like to thank my fellow Members, those in charge of replying and chairing you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u348	Thank you, look... All right, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u349	I even have an extra second. Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Tozo 2 scheme also includes the partner's income;]] [[calls on the Government to make the Tozo 2 scheme independent of the partner's income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the bowling industry is categorized under indoor sports and therefore may not open until 1 September;]] [[calls on the Government to align the bowling industry with the catering industry in the context of the corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the majority of DGAs are not entitled to the NOW scheme;]] [[Whereas the DGAs are on the payroll of their own company and are therefore easy to determine what the income is, irrespective of whether there is compulsory employee insurance;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the DGAs might be eligible for the NOW scheme or to investigate a similar scheme for DGAs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-60]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-61]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u350	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering the questions. I had asked another question to the Minister of Finance, namely at what point in time we have already drawn up our total budget of natural resources each year. The right answer is: 3 May, so after exactly four months and three days we have already gone through everything we should have done all year round. The rest of the year we live on the puff of mother nature and future generations. That does not seem to me to be a sustainable situation. It wasn't, and now, with the corona crisis, we need to do our best to change that quickly. I do not have any motions, but I can say something about a motion that I had already tabled before the corona crisis, which concerns free trade agreements and the Mercosur Treaty. That was already a big thorn in the eyes of farmers before the corona crisis, because they are going to be exposed to unfair competition from Brazil, for example, where farmers do not have to comply with Dutch and European rules at all. I would like to inform the House that I have this motion put on the voting list for Tuesday. I can highly recommend it, because if we help our farming sector in transition, whatever the cabinet is talking about, then surely you can't get it done to lower import tariffs for cheap plop chicken from Brazil? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u351	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u352	Mr. Chairman. We have two major problems with the new aid package. One concerns the removal of the dismissal penalty. We have held a motion from the previous debate and we shall put it to the vote. The other is about the introduction of the partner test forzzp'ers. We will certainly support the motions that have been tabled on this matter earlier. But we also have a motion of our own, in case those motions to delete it altogether would not make it, to at least ensure that thosezzp'ers do not have that huge income fallback. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the (expanded) Tozo scheme includes the partner's income;]] [[Whereas this means that employees and self-employed persons with a partner with an income up to the level of assistance are no longer eligible for this scheme;]] [[Whereas a fall in income within a few months to the level of assistance will cause financial problems for manyzzp's and self-employed entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to minimise a sharp fall in income forzzp's and self-employed entrepreneurs with a partner as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Wilders, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Brenk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u353	The debate on who is going to get the bill for the crisis will undoubtedly continue. For us, it is very important that we should not be able to make it possible for the people for whom we are now clapping so loudly, the people in the care and the people in the shops, to be billed again. We will continue the debate on this, as indicated by our Minister for Finance. As far as we are concerned, it is fair to come out of the crisis to lay the bill where it belongs, and that is certainly not with the people who paid for the previous crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u354	Thank you. Mr Stoffer has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u355	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for answering the questions. There is a good support package and that offers prospects for many. I'm just trying to make it a little bit better with two motions. With the first one, I may be helping Minister Koolmees, who deals with the hour criterion for employees with disability insurance. I'm laying down some kind of legal basis. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that onlyzzp's who fulfil the hourly criterion of 1,225 hours per year are entitled to the Tozo scheme;]] [[Whereas this may cause problems for those who also have disability benefits, as this vulnerable group is often unable to meet this criterion;]] [[Whereas the Income Tax Act applies to self-employed persons with an invalidity allowance with a reduced hourly rate of 800 hours, irrespective of the degree of incapacity to work;]] [[calls on the Government to use the reduced hourly income tax criterion of 800 hours in the Tozo scheme for selfemployed persons with disability benefits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u356	Then there's the second motion. I am happy to accept Minister Hoekstra's commitment to the ODE levy, but I am still trying to tighten it up a little. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is a particular possibility of postponing payment for various taxes, including the storage of renewable energy (ODE) tax, which reduces costs in the short term;]] [[Considering that in 2020 the ODE levy in the third disc increased by 177%, which represents substantial additional costs for SMEs and greenhouse horticulture, for example;]] [[noting that, despite the measures, the deferred ODE levy should be paid;]] [[Whereas a partial adjustment of the payment of the ODE levy provides more financial space for affected sectors, including greenhouse horticulture;]] [[Whereas the increase in the ODE levy for electricity use hampers the desired electrification and sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for the short-term reduction of the ODE levy in the third disc, whether or not only for electricity use and whether or not retroactively, and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u357	Thank you for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u358	I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u359	Thank you. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Climate Act entered into force in 2019;]] [[whereas the costs of Dutch climate policy are expected to reach a total of EUR 1,000 billion;]] [[whereas the Dutch climate policy, even if the theory of global warming was correct by human action, would limit global warming by up to 0.00007 degrees;]] [[Whereas the costs of climate policy are in no way proportionate to revenues;]] [[calls on the government to stop climate policy and use the money saved to cope with the impact of the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u360	This motion was also co-tabled by party mate Wybren van Haga. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has been in the biggest economic crisis since the Second World War;]] [[Considering that the European Commission is taking advantage of the corona crisis to create a EUR 750 billion support package, which mainly transfers money from northern to southern European countries;]] [[noting that according to the distribution presented, the Netherlands would receive less than 1% of this amount, despite the fact that the Netherlands is among the most affected countries;]] [[whereas Dutch taxpayers' money should now be used primarily for Dutch citizens and businesses;]] [[calls on the government not to accept the proposed EU aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u361	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, after reaching the AOW age,zzp'ers will not be able to benefit from the income support of the Tozo 2;]] [[Considering that this is likely to result in a massive fall in income for many AOW beneficiaries, especially now that the supplementary income provision for the elderly (AIO) to which they are referred, other than income support for the Tozo 2, has a capital test;]] [[calls on the government to provide income support for the Tozo 2 also forzzp's above the AOW age or temporarily to delete the AIO power test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to increase the public contribution to retraining proportionally if it appears that more workers are eligible for retraining than planned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kooten-Arissen and Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-68]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u362	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u363	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to recommend the motions on my property. I'll start with the motion in part No. 56. That is the Segers motion, which asks the government to investigate how we can make responsible general management a condition. Let me first confirm that it is good to ask us again and again what a responsible business operation is. That's the first thing. I have said that it seems complex to me to put it as a condition. Nevertheless, it is part of the research that Mr Segers is referring to here. I think that would be helpful, too. Then let me promise you I'll be in a letter with how I see that investigation. Then I'm sure we're doing it, but I'm also giving clues as to how that might be possible. With that explanation, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 57 is the motion-Heerma c.s. on the reshoring investigation. If I may read it in such a way that the opinion is on whether, where and how reshoring can strengthen the manufacturing industry, that can be very different from sector to sector, and the motives can also be very different, then this seems to me to be an extremely useful investigation and I give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u364	That seems fine to me, with the addition that it also looks at the barriers that could not be created. That was also the interruption debate with Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u365	That seems to me to be a good addition to the investigation. We'll take that with us. Then the motion to part No. 61. It's about the bowling industry and the opening up. The openings are based on medical judgements by experts. Not only do they not fit into this debate, but it does not suit me to ride my bike through expert judgement. So I must discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 65 is the Stoffer motion. It requires the government to reduce the ODE levy. Well, Mr. Stoffer is making a big hole in the ODE, but there is an investigation into the design, the rise of the ODE over the years and the distribution over the discs. That's what the Cabinet will return to on Prince's Day. I would advise against this motion in this form, but I will give Mr Stoffer something to look forward to. The motion in part No. 66 belongs to Baudet and Van Haga. I advise against this motion. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u366	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u367	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start with the motion in part No. 45 by Mr Klaver and a lot of other signatories. A broad motion. A number of elements come back later in another motion, but the motion in this form I must advise against. The motion in part No. 46 by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Heerma on the working agenda and further agreements on investment for workers, work-by-work paths and such aspects: Court of Auditors opinion. The motion in part No. 47 van Van Weyenberg, Bruins, Palland and Tielen: judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 48 is about the dismissal penalty. We have had an extensive debate on this today. I'll make another assessment. I'm gonna have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. Forty-nine of Mr Wilders is about thezzp'ers. We have also discussed this in detail. I'm gonna have to dissuade them, too. Then the motion to part No. 51 by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Weyenberg. I have to add a few words to that. A lower threshold increasing the target group is technically possible. That will mean that more people are covered by TOFA. Those may be people who need it badly, but they may also be people who don't need it at all. I think it's important that I mark that for a while. I'm referring to the letter I sent you. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I would like to point out that if you adopt this motion, it will be approximately, indicatively, a threshold of €400. This means that the subsidy amount will be around €550. That's kind of the relationship we were just talking about in the first term. Against that background, judge Room. The motion in part No. 52 by Mr Asscher, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Klaver, a follow-up to Gijs van Dijk's motion, adopted by 120 votes in favour, calling on the government to come forward with proposals for early retirement. This is quite apart from the point I wrote in this morning's letter that I will include the commitments in the pension agreement on sustainable employability in the RVU in the working agenda anyway. Then the motion to part No. 53 by Mrs Van Brenn and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I just read out the Secretary of State's response. I have already responded to this motion in the debate. I must advise against this motion, because the social minimum for AOWs is guaranteed through the AOW and possibly the AIO. The motion in part No. Mr Van Weyenberg's motion and Mr Heerma's motion are, in fact, a kind of extension of Mrs Van Brenn's 54. I would like to give this motion the judgment Chamber; it is policy support. The motion in part No. 55 by Mrs Van Brenk on the principle of reflection and NOW support. It depends on the situation per company. If employers hire people again after economic dismissals, they already have a duty to see if they can ask for redundancies again. So it's already anchored in the law. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mr Azarkan's 58. Lowering the amount puts more pressure on employers/entrepreneurs to fire people. I wouldn't think that was wise in terms of purpose. The motion in part No. 59 by Mr Azarkan, in which the government is asked to adapt the conditions so that student entrepreneurs can also have access to the Tozo, I must advise against. Study funding is an appropriate and adequate provision. Therefore, the Tozo scheme is not entitled to assistance. That's why I don't recommend the motion. The motion in part No. 60 by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet are in fact in line with Mr Wilders' motion. I just advised against that motion, and I would also advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 62 over dga's. Towards Mr Van Haga, I say that we have carefully examined this at the start of the NOW 1. We really didn't find an executable option back then. This one now runs until October. Against that background, I must advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 63 by Mrs Marijnissen cum suis on the income decline forzzp'ers. I've indicated why we've come to the Tozo. That's also because we don't have income data and we didn't have any other data. Against that background, I'd like to discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 64) by Mr Stoffer on the Tozo and the disability allowance. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. The reason behind the reduced hourly criterion of the tax start-up allowance in the event of incapacity for work is also not that the disabled persons would not be able to meet the normal hours criterion. The reduced hourly criterion of 800 hours referred to by Mr Stoffer in his motion for a resolution was introduced only to temporarily encourage this group, for a maximum of three years, to leave the benefit through entrepreneurship. That is a specific purpose and not a generic objective. With that, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 68 by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and Mrs Van Brenk on the power test, the AOW and the AIO. I responded to that in the debate. Against that background, I must discourage the motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's 69 calls on the government to increase the public contribution to retraining proportionately when it appears that more workers are eligible for retraining than planned. I indicated in the debate that the 50 million more is a kind of lubricating oil to pull the R&D money, the 1.8 billion, the 2 billion available. We also agreed with the trade union movement and the employers last night that this retraining and training point is in any case on the working agenda. We're gonna work that out with each other. Against that background, I advise against the motion. Let me now turn to the two motions which have been announced to be put to the vote, but which come from another debate. There's no judgment on that, so I'm gonna do it now. That concerns the motion in part No. 359 (25295) by Mrs Marijnissen of 20 May on the fine for the dismissal of workers. In fact, that is the same motion as Mr Wilders'. I would like to discourage this motion, bearing in mind today's debate. The motion in part No. 356 by Mr Wilders last week on the dismissal penalty is actually the same. So we're gonna dissuade him twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u368	The minister just indicated that companies are obliged to see if they can rehire the employees. That does not include the principle of reflection. Our request was right to take that with us. Is that a point where at least the Minister can do something for older people in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u369	No, sorry. I'd love to, but I just can't make it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u370	Thank you. I will wait a moment and then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u371	Mr President, thank you. Thank you again to the members of your Chamber. I've got three motions left. The first motion is by Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It is probably disappointing, but not surprising, also given the first deadline, that the cabinet should discourage that motion. That motion concerned the Vpb. Motion in part No. 50 belongs to Mr Wilders. This motion is in line with its first term on Europe, but must discourage the cabinet. We are in favour of a strong Europe. Moreover, this proposal has yet to come and will give the cabinet an appreciation of it. The same judgment and the same reasoning apply to the motion in part No. 67 by Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u372	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the messengers, who have done a lot of cleaning, the clerks and the people who have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-28-tweedekamer-6.u373	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
