ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the presentation of the accounts for 2019. I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court. I would also like to welcome the other members of the College of the General Court of Auditors, Mrs Giskes and Mr Irrgang, indeed with a mouth cap, and the Director-General of the Central Statistical Office, Mr Kroese. I shall first give the floor to the Minister of Finance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. "I withdraw and wait. This is the time that is not lost: iedre minute turns into future." They are the starting lines of the poem Eb van de Nederlandse poetess Vasalis. They evoke memories, in the special and bizarre time we are going through as a country, but of course also worldwide. For some, it'll feel like we're on hold. Public life is largely silent and activity is on hold in some sectors, while in others it is more busy than ever. We work together at home as much as we can. We keep our distance and avoid crowds. At the same time, time is ticking. On Accountable Day, the third Wednesday of May, we put the time back. We are looking at the state of the economy and the use of public finances in the previous year. Today's day looks different than usual. This is not only because the members present in your Chamber keep their distance and are together in smaller occupancy, but also because the state of finances in 2019, viewed by the 2020 glasses, is almost melancholic. After all, who would have thought of the situation at the end of 2019 or even at the beginning of 2020? I certainly don't. When I was asked to become Minister of Finance, I, of course, went into my predecessors: Ruding, Cook, Salmon and others. What had they been through at this post? And, of course, I was thinking of Wouter Bos, who, during the 2008 banking crisis, had to take rigorous measures that caused a huge budget shift. The current period of high economic growth seemed to provide for a completely different term of office, but what has come after us in recent months is unprecedented. It is faster, more intense and more profound than anything we have experienced in the financial and economic field since the war. Wouter Bos even sent me an app about this. He wrote, "I lost my record. So far, I was the finance minister who made the debt rise the hardest." This is, of course, a questionable honour, which also creates a great responsibility. Today we look back. Fortunately, that look back on 2019 is a bit positive. Because what do we see about the state of the country in the Financial Report of the Empire that I am offering your Chamber today? The economy grew for the sixth year in a row. Unemployment remained historically low. Due to further increases in the number of job vacancies, the labour market shortage reached record levels. Once again, there was a surplus in the budget. Government debt fell further to 48.5% of GDP. Of course, you could say 'they are but figures', but they are figures that help us, especially in today's crisis. By reducing debt in good times, we have built buffers for the lesser times in which we are now. It gives us the opportunity to cope with the worst economic shocks. At the same time, we unfortunately know that Accountability Day 2021 will give a completely different picture. A recession is inevitable. Madam President. I just said that in 2019 there was once again a surplus in the budget. But that does not mean that we spent last year on the pennies, quite the contrary. We have invested heavily in our society, for example in sectors such as safety and education. 2019 was also the year in which we concluded the Climate Agreement and the pension agreement: important milestones with which we have a good pension and a viable planet in our sights for future generations as well. We will continue to work on that prospect of good facilities. After all, time is ticking. Every minute is turning into the future. Madam President. Today, the cabinet is accountable. As every year, the Court of Auditors has examined the legality of public spending and this year, as always, it has found pluses and minuses. It is, of course, tempting to go into that now, but that is first and foremost up to the President of the Court of Auditors. He will give a detailed explanation of the findings for this year. I am very grateful to him and his colleagues for their critical and constructive contribution, which plays such an important role in our democratic process. Here is the promise that my colleagues in the cabinet and I will continue to keep each other on the importance of legitimate spending in 2020, especially in view of the various emergency measures that are currently under discussion. We are working hard with the government as a whole to bring it in quickly and lawfully. Madam President. For some in our country, passing through the time of poet Vasalis causes fear. Fear of income. Fear of the contract. Fear of the survival of one's own company. I would like to say to them: we will face the economic challenges together. That doesn't mean everyone's gonna get away with it, far from it. But it does mean that the government will continue to support the affected people, businesses and sectors as best as possible with support measures. This is how we work together for a better future. For now, it is my honor and pleasure to offer the Financial Report of the Empire 2019 with extensive text, image and figures in the brief summary I have just given you. I look forward to the debate with your Chamber next week. I'll try to do the offering of the pieces in line with protocol. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. It has a nice orange bow tie, as it should be. The President of the General Court, Mr Visser, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. The fact that we are standing here says a lot about the weight we attach to democratic values. The High Colleges of State state stated in a joint statement: "In difficult times, high-quality advice, thorough public deliberation and decision-making, effective control of the accountability of public funds and adequate assessment of the due diligence and legality of public transactions must be guaranteed." High quality, thorough, effective, adequate, even when the need is high. The staff of the General Court and the officials of the departments have been working under special circumstances in recent months so that your Chamber can be held accountable at the agreed time. I would like to thank them on behalf of the College of the General Court for that. In his written response to our investigation, the Minister pointed out the importance of good cooperation in the current time of crisis. He quotes the Rotterdam philosopher Erasmus: "Distance only separates the bodies, not the spirits." During the time that Erasmus as an unknown youngster went to the Gymnasium in Gouda, the Dutch regions were governed by the Burgundians. The ambitious Duke Charles modernised the administration of the country and centralized power in Brussels. The Court of Auditors also moved in. The centralization of power and the loss of self-government were against the Dutch. When Duke Charles died unexpectedly, his daughter Mary was the heiress of a great and prosperous empire. But there were hijackers on the coast. The regions, united in the States-General, made good use of this. They wanted to recognize Mary as queen, but only under strict conditions. Mary had to make an alliance with the States-General. It was agreed that taxes should only be levied if the States-General had first given permission to do so. They wanted to know how much and what for. Mary was accountable for the spending. These and other appointments were put on paper. That was the so-called Great Privilege, in which in 1477 the principle we are talking about today was anchored: to collect and spend money only after the consent of the States General. And the States General gets information controlled by the Court of Auditors. Mr. Chairman. This is more than a fun anecdote. It is this exchange that has been at the root of our parliamentary democracy for centuries. It is this principle that brings us together again today, almost 550 years later: money in exchange for information. Mr. Chairman. The question is what our opinion is on that exchange in 2019. Unfortunately, this time the approval of the annual accounts is accompanied by a serious comment, because for the first time in a long time, the tolerance limit of 1% is exceeded in the national accounts. I would like to highlight two striking causes. The Empire acquired shares in an airline in 2019 in a way that we qualify as unlawful. Parliament has not been informed in advance about the purchase and therefore has not been given the opportunity to exercise its budgetary rights. The Reich also paid advances to the NAM, in which it is unclear what the amount of the amount was and what the consideration for it was. That uncertainty does not meet the requirements for legality. In addition, six annual accounts exceeded the tolerance limit of 2%. Justice is a serious matter. Overstepping the tolerance limit is serious. However, we have approved it because we also take into account the fact that Parliament subsequently sanctioned the expenditure on the acquisition of shares with a supplementary budget. Because the answer to the question of need breaking law is up to you. Mr. Chairman. The exchange of money and information must not only take place in advance, but must also be complete afterwards. We note that this can be improved on parts. Especially when dealing with new issues, it is better to turn halfway, or to adjust, than to go completely astray. Take the time for our research into natural gas-free neighbourhoods, part of the energy transition. It starts with concrete goals. That's what money is made available for. Gradually, the objectives change without you being properly informed. Some 150 million have now been spent on the programme, but only a few houses are natural gas-free. We thought at the beginning of March that our main message would be: Parliament, watch your case; guard your budget rights and ensure that you receive timely and complete information. But the ink of the annual reports was not yet dry or public health required drastic measures. Your conversation with the Cabinet is no longer about increasing influence in a single airline. It is now about the survival of enterprises, industries, whole sectors of the economy. These are hundreds of thousands of jobs and many billions of euros, in the Netherlands and in the EU. Prosperity and welfare of millions of people are at stake. You may wonder what the relevance of the annual accounts and the accountability for 2019 is. "Rightness" may sound technocratic in harsh times. The concept of "timeliness of information" now has a different meaning. After all, you and the Cabinet must act quickly. And what was fast yesterday is slow at the moment. That's where I want to put this. It is precisely the anchoring of democracy in laws and rules, such as budget law and the obligation to provide information, that is, to institutionalise a certain inertia. Slowness is a democratic virtue because it creates room for deliberation. It must prevent hasty action. Appointments must be clear. I'm taking you to 2008, the financial and economic crisis. The US Finance Minister Hank Paulson advocates to Congress almost unlimited powers to intervene in the economy. In a conversation with the leader of the Senate, Harry Reid, Paulson asks for direct assignment of these powers. But Reid says Congress doesn't do anything immediately. The parliamentarians say nothing per turn, to despair of the minister, who has urgent problems to solve. The board is in a hurry and wants to act quickly. Understandable, isn't it? Perhaps he thought of Albert Einstein, who said that if the world would end within an hour, he would take 55 minutes for analysis and 5 minutes for execution. Mr. Chairman. It's up to you how you classify time. As far as we are concerned, it is the question of whether emergency laws are breaking or the need for laws. The exchange between government and State-General is the beating heart of parliamentary democracy. Democratic institutions are creating a certain inertia. But this delay also ensures better decision-making and more informed decisions, so that ultimately effective and legitimate action is taken. Mr. Chairman. Now you expect me to hand you a thick pile of 24 reports. You're nodding, yes. But I'm standing here empty-handed. The forced homework has digitized everything. Nothing's been put on paper. I will therefore give you something else, namely a copy of the Great Privilege, which for the first time stipulated that the States-General must give permission before the administration starts work. More than 500 years old, but still up-to-date. Watch your saeck! And also the handover goes according to protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	Look! That's very nice. Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court for the documents on accountability for the 2019 state budget. I am pleased that this year, despite the corona crisis, the Chamber, for the 21st time on the third Wednesday in May, will receive the responsibility of all ministers, plus the reports of the General Court on this matter. Unfortunately, we have seen Mr Snels and I do not see Mr Snelter opening this day with the traditional joint breakfast and the V100, for which we would have liked to invite 100 young scientists, cannot continue this year. But maybe next year you can; who knows? Today, the Monitor Brede Welvaart, which is prepared under the coordination of the CBS, has also been presented to the Chamber for the third time. The recognition that economy and prosperity, in the words of economist Arnold Heertje, who has recently been abandoned, is more than the price of an oil sphere, has also been anchored in the accountability cycle. I expect that the Monitor Brede Welvaart, together with the accountability of the Cabinet and the reports of the General Court, will provide a good basis for the Accountability debate. The Accountability debate is scheduled for next Wednesday 27 May 2020. In the weeks after that, the individual annual reports are dealt with in committee, sometimes in writing, sometimes orally and physically, as you would like them to be. Final decision-making on the annual reports and final laws as well as the discharge for the financial management conducted by ministers in 2019 is foreseen for the last meeting week before the next summer recess. I trust that the reports presented today will help to assess the policy pursued in 2019. Again, thank you very much for your presence and offering the accountability. Thanks also to the Members of Parliament. I shall now suspend the sitting until 11 a.m.
