ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would now like to turn to Mrs Karabulut's question, on behalf of the SP, to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, whom I warmly welcome. The Minister will replace the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The question is about the payment of a former leader of a terrorist organization. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have been here so many times, in discussion, in debate, with the Foreign Minister on military support for jihadists, war criminals and allies of Al-Qaeda in Syria, and about lies that Parliament, we, have been told. That was the so-called NLA programme, which was quickly declared a state secret and quickly covered up. On Saturday, the news was released on the radio by the radio program Argos, which pays the Netherlands millions of euros, still, to a former leader of a Syrian terrorist organisation. It concerns Labib al-Nahhas, who was in any case until 2017 with the jihadist human rights violators of Ahrar al-Sham. Mr. Chairman. How is this possible? Dutch travellers who in the past joined this organisation, Ahrar al-Sham, have been convicted by the Dutch judge. But the Netherlands, the Dutch Government, the Foreign Minister and this Minister, are paying millions of euros a well-known former headpiece of this? That really felt and feels like a blow to our faces. How is it possible that the Foreign Minister said that he didn't know that Nahhas had a history with Ahrar al-Sham? It was common knowledge. This figure even wrote opinion papers in The Washington Post and all kinds of American newspapers. But Koos van Dam, who was the Dutch Syrian Envoy from January 2015 to August 2016, also knew. He reported that the Chamber was still at a round table in 2018. It's just unbelievable that the minister wouldn't have known this. I would like a response from this Minister in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I understand the question and the concerns that have been expressed, of course, very well. I am of course also saying this on behalf of Minister Blok. Ahrar al-Sham is indeed a group of which we have said before that she has a Salafist and jihadist background. There are good reports of human rights violations. So we also want to know who has benefited or might have benefited from this funding. Ahrar al-Sham, to make this clear, is of course not financed in any way by the Netherlands, not now, not in the past. The project mentioned in Argos' programme was contracted by the Netherlands through the European Institute of Peace. This is an intergovernmental organisation, set up by many European countries, which is committed to supporting peace processes and dialogue, including in Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq and also Ukraine. We've been doing this, also from the Ministry, since 2015. The responsibility, and also due diligence, for the way the project is carried out lies primarily with the EIP; this is how the contractual basis works. The EIP itself decides who they're going with. They did this, too. They have their own due diligence procedure. But here it is, of course, the EIP has chosen to finance a project through a Syrian organisation that promotes dialogue on transitional justice, so transitional justice, as Mrs Karabulut knows. That organization is called SACD. At some point, the SACD has appointed a consultant who is now project director or employee named Nahhas. This Labib al-Nahhas functioned as head of external relations or head of Ahrar al-Sham until 2016. He has left there in his own words, as we know from the EIP and now from public statements, based on fundamental differences and, of course, the violent development of Ahrar al-Sham during that period. Now, here's the thing. The EIP has consciously engaged Labib al-Nahhas with the following reasoning: its so-called added value for a contribution to a political solution and the voluntary and dignified return of displaced persons and refugees. There is no evidence that Nahhas was in any way connected with Ahrar al-Sham during the period he worked for SADC, financed by the EIP with Dutch money, among other things. There are two fundamental issues, and we recognise them. One. The due diligence of the EIP. The Netherlands has contracted the EIP. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not know until very late that this Mr.Nahhas, who was mentioned in any way in November 2019 in documents, was the intended Labib al-Nahhas. I asked the EIP, in consultation with Minister Blok, for a detailed written explanation of their due diligence. Secondly, we would have liked to know this in order to take a different view. The second decision-making moment is, I think, a more important one in a broader sense. The Netherlands finances many organisations through third parties. We do not have sufficient understanding or supervision of who or what they are. We are moving to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carry out a new risk assessment of such programmes and projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	Let me ask you a quick question. Is the Minister saying he didn't know? Didn't the Minister know that this was a former headpiece of Ahrar al-Sham, despite the fact that the Syrian Envoy mentioned it here in the Chamber in 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	The EIP didn't tell us about that, no. It goes through third parties. We finance the EIP. The EIP, a renowned organization, has a contractual obligation to us. They carry out their own due diligence. They have hired a Syrian organisation, which at some point has contracted Mr Nahhas for dialogue. Moreover, Mr Nahhas travels freely. He lives in the UK and travels freely in the European Union. He's not on any list. But having said that, it is indeed information that we would have liked to take a different view. That is why I have made these two comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	Of course, it's the world upside down. Year in, year out we have very intense debates here. As a House of Representatives, we're getting put on the wrong track again and again. There is a very clear statement from this House that we do not want to help jihadists and terrorists, even if it is the enemy of our enemy, and that this type of foreign policy is bankrupt. It is the world on its head that there will be no lights at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that people will hide behind a third party. I read the brochures from the club where this Mr. Nahhas is in charge. I have no idea what will happen to the EUR 2 million. Can the Minister tell me? Can the Minister also tell me whether she agrees with me that this practice is totally unacceptable, that the grant of this project should be stopped and that the money should be recovered? Finally, does the Minister agree with me that Nahhas should be prosecuted because of his membership of this terrorist organisation? I say that because Assad... the Foreign Minister is rightly suing Assad for wanting to see him prosecuted for human rights violations. But this organisation is also responsible for serious human rights violations. I am personally ashamed that our government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs apparently didn't know who they were dealing with for a while. This is a completely unacceptable practice. I would like the answers to my questions and immediately to stop this project.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think I have already answered a number of questions, as far as we know. I await a full written report from the EIP on the details of their due diligence. We have to remember that other countries, such as Canada, and also organisations such as The European Endowment for Democracy, directly support the same projects. The second is that this project, the SADC, is moving towards the UN and also towards the Syria process. SADC is also engaged in a lot of discussions with the European Union. I cannot judge the extreme framework that is now being outlined. I do admit, however, that I have already said that we think this is important from the point of view of foreign affairs and that there will be a full report on the due diligence of the EIP. Then there will be a new weighing-up of Foreign Affairs and a decision can be taken. At the moment, there is no information on the basis of which I can already make a commitment that we are going to prosecute Mr Nahhas. Like I said, he lives in the United Kingdom. He travels freely. He's not listed on any list. That does not exonerate the man; that is absolutely not what I am saying. But at the moment we have no information that would allow me to make such a commitment at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	It is a fact that this subsidy amounts to millions of dollars to this type of organisation with a former headpiece of a terrorist organisation. The Minister speaks very easily about this. This organization also advises all kinds of important international people. That should ring more alarm bells. I do not yet have an answer to the question as to what exactly happened to that money and whether the Minister agrees with me that this money should be recovered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	I am certainly not an easy judge of this, but I am trying to keep the calm and reasonable, so that we can have a full understanding of the facts. We have contracted a professional renowned organization, led by the former Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of Sweden. There is a great deal at stake, including for this organization. When you want to engage in dialogue and conflict mediation in crisis areas, contacts through third parties are often needed to conduct the necessary conversations. This still doesn't give me another rating on Labib al-Nahhas. I and Minister Blok share the enormous concerns that have been expressed. I have promised that we will await a full written examination of the EIP. Foreign Affairs often finances organisations in areas where we never have the scope, control and information to improve risk assessment. There is often a need for immediate action. We also take back the third question on Mr Nahhas. We have already started an investigation of it ourselves, but I cannot at this time make a commitment that this man can be prosecuted on the basis of a series of details. One final point. Ahrar al-Sham was at the 2016 Riyadh Conference. The requirement for participation was to endorse the objective of a peaceful inclusive political solution to the Syrian process. This conflict has had many faces and forms, including organisations and movements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I shall first go to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA. Then I have Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD and Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Madam President. I do share Mrs Karabulut's concerns about this dossier. I hear the Minister say that the projects that Mr Labib is doing now are in line with everything that the UN and other bodies consider important. The question is not so much whether these projects connect, as whether Mr Labib is the person who has to implement them and receive so much funding for them, including from the Netherlands. That's the question. The minister says we didn't know till late. When did we know? And when we found out, did the grant end right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	We didn't find out until recently at the Ministry. Of course, that's very worrying. I told you there might have been a completely different weighting at another time. More than 3,000 projects and programmes are being carried out on behalf of the Netherlands in many places around the world. Now not all the details have come up on these elements. The EIP failed to inform us that Mr Nahhas would be involved in this project. At the time of decision-making in 2018, it was my understanding that all of this is still being sorted out and shared with this Chamber, also on the basis of the questions that were asked, not Mr Labib al-Nahhas. So at that time there was no weighing moment or an alarm bell that could have gone off. This is, of course, regrettable. That is why, once again, Mr Blok and I want to say that we want to increase the risk in the overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr. Weverling. What do you say, Mr. Van Helvert? Yes, the question was indeed whether the subsidy was stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	The grant hasn't been stopped yet. We await the full reporting of the EIP and arrive very quickly at a new weighting moment, including the possible cessation of funding, unless the EIP, for example, cancels the contract with Mr Nahhas. There are several ways to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	This is very worrying, isn't it? So the money hasn't been stopped yet. It must be transparent. It is money from the Dutch taxpayer, which therefore comes into the hands of a foreign terrorist. Can the Minister confirm that this is about development money, just an ODA budget, and that she is actually responsible for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yeah, but the money's not the only thing here. It is a question of Syria's policy in this cabinet. This is a project aimed at political dialogue and is in line with the efforts of the Dutch cabinet. That is why it is often referred to as the political envoy. The talks have often been held at political level, both in Brussels and in The Hague. So it's less interesting what the potty is. It's more about what the stakes were at the political level. The Netherlands also wanted to contribute to the reconstruction, recovery and, above all, the inclusive political process. That is why the source of the money is not so relevant in the weighting and Mr Blok and I are pulling together in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u19	The Dutch government supported terrorism in Syria with millions of euros and now one of the leading organisations with €700 per day. This is just dirty, isn't it? Not a penny increase for the care heroes, but in the meantime millions of support for jihadists related to Al-Qaeda. I have the following questions. Exactly how much tax money has been paid to the gentleman that we're talking about? How many calls have you had from State officials with that gentleman? I would like those interview reports and I would also like to have all the correspondence from and about that gentleman from the State Department available to me. Finally, I would like the government to break all ties with that person and also deny him access to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u20	Many questions have already been asked at first. All the details are discussed, such as the financial statements and the overall understanding of the amount paid to the EIP. The EIP will identify its partners. Secondly, I would, of course, cast the suggestion far from the cabinet as if, knowingly, we were here to finance terrorism, terrorism or people suspected of terrorism directly or indirectly. Thirdly, no one here is a representative or spokesperson for Mr Nahhas, but Mr Nahhas left Ahrar al-Sham in 2016, travels freely as a Spanish citizen and lives in the UK. I do not believe that we currently have the possibility, on the basis of Union law, of denying him access to Dutch territory, but we take all the questions to a better consideration of Mr Nahhas. But the starting point is: what did the EIP do and how do we look at it now? The follow-up is coming soon, and I say this to you in a letter from Mr Blok and myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u21	A personal fact in the first place: I did not suggest anything at all; I merely mentioned facts. If the Minister wishes to interpret it as a suggestion, that is her case, but it is not so pronounced by me or meant by me. Secondly, I have not yet received an answer to the question of access to all interview reports and other exchanges of messages from officials with and/or with this person.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u22	Since until recently at official level it was not known that Mr Labib al-Nahhas was involved, I think there have been few written changes. But all this still needs to be mapped out. This will take a few days. They're working hard on it. Written questions have been asked and I have also just promised a letter in which we may also be able to give the following consideration to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u23	Yeah, the next trade-off. It's been in Trouw and Nieuwsuur. Now it's Argos who brings back information. The Chamber shall be informed through the media. I don't think this is possible. Can we quickly get the information on all the agreements and on-going cases that are now in place, so that we can finally get over this for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u24	Of course, it is never the intention of the cabinet that the Chamber should first hear anything through the media. Let this be said. Furthermore, there will indeed be a letter in the short term. Of course, we are also working hard to answer the written questions that have been asked. And as I said, we await the EIP report. We are looking at a tightening of the frameworks ourselves, because we are working with about 3,000 projects and programmes, in many areas at risk, with many possible extensions of people we really do not know and cannot monitor independently. We will see if the process is adequate there. Furthermore, of course, the letter responds to all the questions that have been asked so far. I'd like to tell this Chamber that if you have a foreign policy and invest in peace, security and stability, not everything... We use zero tolerance, but no risk can always be excluded 100%, not even in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you. Let's see. I do see the Secretary of State for Defence in trade-K, but I am actually looking for Mr Van Dam of the CDA, because he is the next speaker. There he is.
