ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	Before we start the debate, I would like to inform you that yesterday the Permanent Committee on Finance decided to include in this debate the legislative proposal Amendment of the budget statement of the Ministry of Finance (IXB) for the year 2020 (Seventh incidental supplementary budget on the extension of reduced rates of tax and recovery interest (BIR) and aid for co-government) (35540). I trust that we will be able to vote on this budget next Tuesday. We are now going to the debate on the third aid package for companies and workers. I would like to welcome the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It's storming outside, in all kinds of ways. A lot of Dutch people are losing their jobs right now. The cabinet is now proposing to introduce a new support package for companies. It's about bizarre amounts of money: billions. I think it is a good thing and it is important that we provide this support, but we do not do that to help those companies, however successful we are. But it's about keeping as many Dutch people working as possible. I am concerned about that because we also know that some companies do not keep up with the total number of employees they have now. Imagine what it means when you work at a company like this and your job gets cut. You don't just lose your job. You lose your security and you're worried about your mortgage. For me, one of the lessons from the previous crisis is that we need to do more to take people than by hand. Don't say: here's a benefit, google yourself out, find a deficit sector and get a education voucher. No, what we want is to take people from their jobs, from their contracts, to another contract. That is why we have always advocated such a job guarantee. Not because we believe you can give everyone 100% guarantee on a job, but because it has to be different. That also fits with the other role for the government, I think, where we are now. Not the individual can solve this. Unemployment is not just an individual problem. As a collective, together, we must ensure that people find jobs in the many sectors where there are still shortages. Last week in the General Reviews we adopted a motion on this and I see in this letter that the cabinet is actually making a move. In many respects there is talk about the employee's claim to guidance to new work. However, I would like to make a few things very clear, to record and to pin them down in this debate. Because in the end, it's not about what's in a letter, it's about what's gonna happen to that employee. The new regulation will enter into force on 1 October. What does it mean for the employee? Is he still being sent to the UWV for a benefit? Or are we really gonna organize it differently? I understand how difficult it is and I understand that it requires a lot from social partners, from UWV and from everyone. But it has to be. So the first question is, what does the employee's claim look like? Is he getting counseling to another job? The second question is: what is the obligation that we impose on the employer? I find the letter vague about that. I think the employer should be involved in this job guarantee. How are we going to capture that? If you get money, if you get subsidy from the NOW, it's got to be a condition, as far as I'm concerned, that you cooperate with it and that as an employer you're responsible for helping people. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it must also be included in the NOW grant conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	Before I give you the floor, Mr. Aartsen: I propose to allow three interruptions in two or six questions. Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Asscher and I can find each other in such a job guarantee, or whatever the formal arrangements you make. Everyone wants nothing more. I speak to many entrepreneurs who say: I would like nothing more than to keep people, because that is my capital, and I can continue my business with that. Mr Asscher says: what are we going to oblige entrepreneurs? I spoke to an entrepreneur who told me I did exactly what you wanted. I have said recently that it is not going to work in the entrepreneurial event business. He's been looking for new jobs for a lot of people, and he's done it. This entrepreneur has sent two people with early retirement and has been able to make a nice arrangement for them. And now he gets a letter from the UWV, the account of the NOW, and because his wage bill is falling, he gets less support. Would Mr Asscher be prepared to see whether we can not only oblige employers, but whether there is also a positive incentive? If you're good with your people, it shouldn't be deducted from your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	Sure. That's part of the arrangement. There is a possibility to reward employers who do well. That's exactly how we're gonna do it. I just want an employer like that on the shoulders. I also think that we should agree now and make it clear that there is sufficient budget to help the smaller employers. They often have the will to help the workers, but go organise it in the time of crisis. I find two things. One: Reward it if you make sure that people don't get into benefits but stay at work, an essential difference for the individual and for the economy. Secondly, as a Chamber, let us make it clear that 300 million must be set aside within 1.4 billion to make this possible. Otherwise, you're gonna be late and you're not gonna get it done if you want to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	I welcome Mr Asscher's reply. In future, I believe that we should look at new arrangements to see how we can make a better distinction between the willing employers and the bad employers even clearer. But I think we should also look back, because this, of course, is extremely demotivating in such an industry. This entrepreneur says: I've done exactly what you wanted, I've taken good care of my people, I know them by first name, I know when their children's birthday is and when their wedding day is. And now I get less support! I sincerely believe that all this does not have to be done in motions and in political debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Aartsen has just made a good point. You have to be strict with the employers who don't handle their people well, they are unfortunately there. But I also see that the vast majority of employers and companies, who have not asked for this crisis, are faced with a huge thump of that corona and want to take good care of their people. The difference we have to make here is that instead of offering people benefits, we are taking them from one job to another. Not only does a boss like that know when it's your birthday, but he also knows what kind of work you could do. That is a major change in social security that we now have to enforce, as far as I am concerned, and is much better for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	I support Mr Asscher's plea. I will also make a warm plea for intersectoral work guarantees in Sweden in a moment. If we look at those funds, wouldn't that be a nice and shining example? Is that what Mr Asscher has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	Sure. I think that Sweden, but also Denmark, are in some ways farther away in helping people move to other jobs much faster. Instead of building security into a benefit, which should also be there, no misunderstanding, everything must be done to get you to work. In this crisis, it can never be done only within its own sector. Mr Aartsen mentioned the event sector, but look at the culture, look at tourism. You cannot say: find another job within tourism or within the culture or in the event industry. You have to help people. I mentioned KLM as an example. You work as a steward or stewardess, as a cabin crew, but there's no work left. It then makes a huge difference that you are being trained from work to another job, for example in healthcare. The example from Sweden, certainly! That is why it is important that these funds, the training funds, can be directly claimed. That's what the letter says on page 1. That's a big change. Instead of being dependent on goodness in your sector and whether it is well organised, it needs to be organized much earlier and it needs to be a claim for the employee to be able to move to another sector as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	I was disappointed in the letter because I don't see when that plan is going to happen. We're gonna talk, and it's at the Labor Foundation. In our view, there should be a very clear plan by the end of the year. Is that what the PvdA has in mind: speed and now move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	I see this debate as a very important moment in this respect. I believe that we can now give the framework, set the conditions, make statements, debate with the cabinet and indicate how we want it. By the way, there is no misunderstanding as to whether the cabinet wants to do so, but this is the time to mark, record and make clear what this means for the employee and what you expect from the employer. What does it mean if it doesn't go well? Who's gonna play a role? How can we guarantee that there is sufficient budget? I agree with Mrs Van Brenk: I too would have liked it better if you could already see it, as you can already see with some big employers. At the same time, I have seen what the Minister has done in the meantime. He told me about that, too. He's consulted with social partners. I understand how complex it is. This debate is very important in this respect in order to make it clear to each other that it should not be about intentions or paper, but about what you are going to do now for workers affected by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	I am very excited by what Mr Asscher has said about helping people from work to work and other sectors. Partly we are looking in sectors that already had labour shortages before the corona crisis, for example technology. We are looking for 50,000 MBO technicians to shape the energy transition in this country. Mr Asscher emphasizes the question of how to get employers to help them. But there is also the workers' side. How can we get employees to go to sectors if they were more reluctant to choose? How are you gonna seduce them? How are you going to help them go to other sectors and make a mindshift, so they're actually going to choose sectors where we need people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	I think that's a very good question. There's something positive in that too. Let us not forget that in January and February, before this misery happened to us, there were a million vacancies. We were in an overcrowded labour market. The main concern of employers was: how do we find people in technology, in education, in care, in the installation industry and in the sustainability of housing? Some of that has been affected by the crisis, but some of the vacancies are still there. In fact, three parties are involved: the employer who is now in trouble and who would have to fire someone, the host employer who is looking for people and the employee. If you get into a situation where your job ceases to exist and there's a chance of a decent job, not with a fucking contract, but with a normal, decent contract of employment, I'm sure that's why you're jumping. But I also know it's a big change. You're gonna have to make sure you don't throw them out on the street first and they're on welfare. They need to be able to make change from a contract. That's exactly where I want to go. The good examples from the past work that way too. Of course, the printing industry was shrinking, just because of the change in digitalization. There were a lot of people working in that sector, especially in the east of the country. They have put in the collective agreement that you can only fire if you ensure that people get somewhere through a mobility centre. It costs money, it costs work, and it costs money. It also requires something from the workers. But it worked. The big difference is that you didn't get mass unemployment from people in the graphic industry there, but people ended up elsewhere. I believe that we owe it to the Dutch workers to try to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	Does Mr Asscher agree with me that such a job-to-work guarantee or guidance is not a free pass, of: let me try something else? Does he agree with me that we are really going to help people when they choose sectors that have a huge shortage of people, such as care, education and technology? In doing so, we can look at the macro-efficiency and what our country needs. So we come a bit into the sphere of free individual choice, because we want you to choose a sector in which you are desperately needed; then we are going to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	It may be my human image, but I think people are thrilled and excited if you continue to offer them the certainty of a contract of employment at this time, if you show that you're helping them and not abandoning them, that you're retraining them and that you're taking into account their talents and competences. I just told Mr. Aarts that your current boss, manager, employer or whatever you want to call him, who often knows better than an agency. People will be happy that they do not end up in benefits and that they do not have to report to the UWV. As test streets have been stamped out of the ground to help people in the short term, the term is somewhat longer than was intended to help them get a test, so in my view, in my view, you could work with orbital streets, where they are matched in sectors where it is now difficult and where there are shortages. I think that people who are going to play that role should be hired and who are going to look at: what could you do and where is a job preferably in your own region, because it is already difficult enough for people and how are we going to make the combination? And we must then be prepared to help pay labour costs, to help pay for the training and to enable the transition. That costs a lot of money, but in the end it saves you hugely. You save human suffering and you also save our economy, because you know that, to put it mildly economically, productivity decreases when people are not at work for a while. I had them at my desk; people who, during the previous crisis, were out of the question and wrote in letters to the minister that they did their job as carpenter with passion, but that they flew out and that they now have to ask their daughter to help apply through the computer. As far as I'm concerned, we learned that lesson. When it comes to this, the damage is colossal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	I always try to listen to Mr Asscher, but especially to this subject. He himself referred to his own ministry. In the previous crisis, we did things that worked and we learned lessons from where they didn't work. The approach advocated by Mr Asscher is very appealing to me, and it is also different than before. I have one more concern: are we finally going to turn lifelong laughter into lifelong learning and actually put it into practice? I agree with what Mr Asscher is proposing, but he has not yet mentioned one party. I would like to ask him if he agrees with me that the sectoral R & D funds are also indispensable. Because, yes, it's about the employer, the employee, and also about the new employer, but one of my frustrations last time is that I can't explain that there's going to be a lot of tax money, rightfully, but that money isn't being used to retrain to another sector. Mr Asscher knows that. There are good examples. The graphic media is a good example that I have criticized in the past, but what is now very beautiful. That's what we really need. Is Mr Asscher making that call with me today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	Not just that call. But I would first like to do justice to what Mr Van Weyenberg said in the introduction to his question. Certainly, in the previous crisis, a number of things went very well. We were able to help people with sector plans back then. But this is another crisis. As far as I am concerned, we are also further in thinking about the role of the government vis-à-vis the individual. That was also the colour bath of the General Reviews. We're not just gonna think of it as an individual problem anymore. There is a group that can do that, but most of the working Dutch people get a thump when they get fired, he or she comes home gloomy and needs guidance for another job, especially in this crisis that nobody can do anything about. What's it gonna take? Another role of the social partners. As far as I am concerned, this is a role that also fits in with the future of how I would like employers and employees to work. I welcomed the statements made by the new UNO President on this issue. But the social partners run the R&D funds and everyone can see that you can't just school within your own sector. Where it is still real in some circumstances, you now see that people have to move from one sector to another. So we have to make agreements in the sense of crossing the line: I'm helping your employees, you help mine, we're gonna solve that education and we're gonna fix it for those employees. If there was ever a time, it would be now, otherwise it would be mass unemployment that we could avoid. I think that is a perfectly logical part of the agreements that need to be made now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	Nice words. I totally agree. We have often used mobility centres in the past with specific companies, but this is a very different crisis. I really hope that is also fair to me, precisely because you put everyone together, everyone dares to get out of the shooter's pits. Only then can we really help people. This is not only in the interests of the workers, but also in the interests of our business. So there is no contradiction here; this is win-win.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	This is certainly in the interest of our business. You have good employees; they were good employees in February and are still good employees. That the government is shutting down the entire event sector, for a good reason, those employees can't do anything about it and neither can those employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	The only problem is that our structure is still too much based on the fact that the individual is then dismissed and eventually given a route. It is not yet organised that there is a claim for guidance to other work. There is, in the end; eventually you come to the municipality that is going to offer a route, but then the chances of success are much less, and the suffering for an employee is already much greater. So if we could ever do it, we should do it now. That is why I think we should agree more clearly with each other and make it more concrete. I understand that it is all work in progress; Mrs Van Brenk referred to that. But I want to be clear in this debate today: the clarity that there is sufficient budget for it, the clarity that it is mandatory and that it also affects that small group of malicious employers, which Mr Aartsen was talking about, if you do get that subsidy, but do not do what you are expected to do. I think we should make it clear that, as part of the solution to this problem, we should make it possible for people to stop working earlier. That is why extra money is needed; I think that should be made clear today too. We agreed in the pension agreement that if you have a heavy occupation, you should be able to stop working sooner. It's a long battle that's complicated enough. But if you see what is happening now, namely companies that are going to reorganise, you want it to be possible now: that they are going to make appointments with people, so that they do not apply at the age of sixty-three or sixty-two. That's not what you should be organizing in that job; they should just be able to enjoy their old age. We have to make that possible. We must bear in mind that some of the workers do not have the capacity to build up their pensions. So I also say, in the context of this crisis and in order to keep room for young people and others, make it possible for people to stop working sooner. Young people. We see how the crisis struck them; they were the first to fly out. Here too, I say: think about work, think about job security. Offer them either education, or an internship, or a job. Create work-learning pathways. I know that Mrs van GroenLinks is also arguing in favour of this and putting forward proposals. But let's try to settle that today, because then you have a package where you say: yes, it's storming outside, but for job security we'll do everything. Mr President, my last comment. I keep talking about a package that lasts until 1 January. But we also see, and in recent days it has become quite clear, that a second wave is coming towards us. I would like to say here that if this continues, and we must do everything we can to prevent it, it is of course crazy to go and squeeze the companies and cut the subsidy, to say: we are going to pay much less for the workers here. So I would also like to say here that, as far as I am concerned, before that part of the package comes into force, before 1 January, we need to talk again about whether, if violent measures are taken again, it is justified to risk the security of so many workers. My message would be: support the companies, support the workers and do not let them suffer from corona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, very strange that, while the number of infections is increasing, we are talking here about phasing out aid packages for workers. It is good that all kinds of packages have been devised and that, as is customary in the polder, there are numerous counters, budgets and packages to help people to go from work to work, and all that kind of arrangement. That's good. But I think we should ask another question here today, namely: are we ready to take the big blow that is going to cause the second wave of our labour market? I think we should learn from the mistakes we have made in the past, from the developments we have seen in the past, and get ready for the blow that is coming. Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight two parts of the support package. That's the NOW and the Tozo. For the viewers at home, I would mention that the NOW is money that is transferred to employers when turnover falls dramatically, so that salaries can be paid. The Tozo is the support package for self-employed people who have lost their income due to the circumstances. I'll start with the NOW. What went wrong there in the past? When that aid scheme was introduced, we saw that flex workers were fired everywhere. When the second aid package was introduced, it also became increasingly clear that young people were excluded. It also became clear that this government has chosen to give employers the room to play while we are therefore using taxpayers' money that companies are supporting to fire employees. This also concerned employees with permanent contracts. We now see in the third aid package that this government is already ahead of schedule and announces a phasing-out. As the government says, we're going to phase-out the scheme. We are no longer going to support employers with less turnover losses. We are going to offer less support and money to employers with turnover losses in order to maintain employment. Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP Group is concerned, that is totally irresponsible. We are now on the verge of a second blow to the labour market. We should not talk here about phasing out the aid packages. No, we need to talk here about building that. As far as the SP Group is concerned, therefore, we are going to do the NOW differently from what the government is proposing. We are going to help the employers, who with tax money are generously helping to maintain employment, to ask for something in return. As far as we are concerned, aid must also remain generous. We're gonna demand from the employers that they keep everyone in, that they keep the flex workers in service, and that they don't fire people while they're on the government drip. We're gonna offer the employers a way out. If they manage to get an employee who wants to say goodbye to another employer, they do not have to pay the fine because they say goodbye to people during the support package. As far as the SP Group is concerned, that is the condition that should apply. We have also tabled an amendment, a proposal, to agree. We find: for what, hear what. If we support companies with tax money, with tens of billions, which are added to these NOW schemes, then we must also be there for the workers. We must therefore ask these companies to do something in return and to keep people in service. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Tozo, the self-employed scheme. In the first instance, there was a lack of clarity. A lot went wrong with the application. What has been particularly wrong with this scheme is the second aid package and the condition of the partner's income. That was going to count in determining whether anyone is entitled to this aid. As a result, if you have a partner who works at a supermarket, for example, and you are an artist, you are no longer entitled to that arrangement, because you have a partner with income. We all know that in many cases two incomes are needed to pay the rent and to bear the fixed costs. These people have been brutally abandoned. In the debate we had earlier, the Minister could not even indicate how many people lost their support. Never mind the Minister's eyes on how many people have gotten into trouble. As far as the SP Group is concerned, we are removing the partner test, because it is unjust and makes families very difficult. Mr. Chairman. Another mistake was that students were not entitled to that Tozo, to that aid measure. That is, of course, very strange, because they too can be entrepreneurs. They too may have a loss of income. I would therefore urge the Minister to delete that provision and give students access to that aid. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, I will table a motion on this matter in the second term. In April, Minister Hoekstra made it very clear: our pockets are deep and we are going to empty them completely. The question that arises now is: are those bags empty now? I see the Minister of Finance laughing now. Is that the reason that this government chooses to cut down the aid instead of building up now that we are in that second wave? Are those bags empty? What perspective is there to scale up, to build up precisely, now that the need is high? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the General Political Reviews, I received the following e-mail: "This afternoon you rightly confronted Prime Minister Rutte and I very much appreciate that with the difficult position of older job seekers. The Prime Minister does not understand why organisations, including most certainly the government, do not accept older jobseekers with a lot of living and working experience. Blowing. Then he did not read the reports from the UWV and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau at the time of the credit crisis, for it is not about higher salary costs. No, organisations are biased that older workers will become ill faster and productivity will be lower. I am now a 60-year-old man entitled to welfare for a long time. I lost my job because of cuts in justice. I've written 3,000 application letters by now." I will save everyone else the list, but I still share the conclusion of this e-mail: 'The dogs do not like bread, but the caravan with fine words with the Prime Minister, and rather ex-Minister of Social Affairs Mr Asscher, continues'. I could also have read an e-mail from a 55-year-old flex worker whose contract expires in November and who is already thinking about the coming holidays. Older people who lose their jobs or have benefits are uncertain and lack perspective. I ask the Minister: what did this aid and recovery package aim to offer them? The main concern of 50PLUS at the moment is the timing of the package of measures. Why is aid for businesses, work and income already being substantially scaled down? Already. We ask the Minister: take direction, both young and old. But we are asking: present a concrete plan of action before the end of this year. After all, the Council of State is asking for this too. I have just mentioned all the experiences in Sweden with international job security funds. In our view, these are excellent points of departure. We are excited about that. Will the Minister look into this and what will be the position of older people in the supplementary social package? We expect this cabinet to make an extreme effort to better secure the transition to viable work in the form of a plan of action with serious agreements on job retention. We indeed support the PvdA's ideas for a form of work-to-work guarantee or assurance. 50PLUS also calls for a temporary extension of early retirement, so that young people can retain or receive employment: old-for-young schemes. Work out an arrangement like this. Could we possibly bring forward the proposed reduction of the RVU fine on 1 January? We're considering a motion. I'd like a response to that. Is the Minister willing to take into account, or more importantly, the extent to which companies are committed to an inclusive labour market and international corporate social responsibility when granting state aid through the NOW? Vulnerable groups should be allowed, because we are not even more concerned about being the child of the account. Mr. Chairman. By means of the power test, the use of the Tozo will be a third lower. That's 45,000 self-employed people; the SP just called it. Isn't this Tozo gonna be a colander like this? Is there not an unnecessary loss of valuable viable activity? 50PLUS also calls for a thorough examination of the position of coronage-stricken groups which are unable or unable to avail themselves of any of the aid and recovery schemes. How's the cabinet gonna help them? Schemes for investment leading to work, e.g. the Job-related Investment Discount, the ICI, should indeed result in new jobs and new investments. Such a BIK should also contribute to social equality and a sustainable economy as far as we are concerned. Are there any guarantees for that? And why not opt for a temporary accelerated write-off of investments in the interests of work? Or, even better, lower labour costs further? Mr. Chairman. All support and recovery packages are wasted money if we do not consistently contain the infections. 10% of the detected infections can be traced back to work, even more so than the catering industry. So make homework if that's possible, a right. Make consistent work on inspection reports of corona-insecure work situations. Can we count on the Minister in that regard? Finally, Mr President, I would like to comment on the e-mail we received from the event sector, on the reimbursement of the fixed charges and the reference period, which means that they are really out of the question. That's never supposed to happen, is it? I'd like to receive a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Aartsen on behalf of the VVD. I call Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Madam President. It is good that the cabinet supports entrepreneurs and employees at this difficult time. Many entrepreneurs are still in enormous weather. Corona is not gone, and unfortunately the restrictions for many of us will remain among us for a while. It is a good thing that the cabinet is setting up this package for nine months. Last summer I spoke to a lot of entrepreneurs who were actually in uncertainty: does the government still support me, when I can only half-do or have all kinds of limitations? In any case, this nine-month package offers entrepreneurs a bit of a financial perspective. They can make calculations and plans for the near future of their business on the basis of this aid. Mr. Chairman. The VVD still sees a number of improvements in this package. Many entrepreneurs had to stop their tax obligations because they simply couldn't pay it anymore at the time. Every entrepreneur understands that they will, of course, pay it back. Everyone really understands that. But what the cabinet is now proposing, namely to pay as of 1 January and also to pay within 24 months, is simply not possible for many entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs such as those in the travel industry and the hotel industry are still on black seed. They simply cannot have this. That's gonna be a headbeat. We would therefore like them to be able to start paying back later and to take them more than two years. The VVD will therefore make a proposal in this debate together with D66. Most entrepreneurs prefer not to hang on to the government at all. They mainly want to do what they are good at, namely undertaking and earning their own money. That is difficult, because many restrictions are urgently needed. The infections are running fast right now. Fortunately, entrepreneurs are also extremely creative. Recently, I've been bombarded with many creative ideas about how entrepreneurs could do something more in a corona-proof way. Then it wasn't "gone with the 1.5 meters" or #I don't care anymore. These were mainly safe concepts that help to prevent the spread of the virus, but which allow these entrepreneurs to do more. Think of special business conferences with separations, think of cough screens in theatres, and so even more smart technological solutions that are safe. Unfortunately, these entrepreneurs are looking for scientific recognition of these solutions. They are also looking for an agreement from the government: is what I have invented really safe, and is it allowed? There are nice initiatives around the field labs; a nice start, as far as we are concerned, but it could be much more large-scale. Every industry should have a lab like this, because it's much needed, since the virus isn't gone yet. Unfortunately, there are also sectors that are completely closed. For example, think of the nighthoreca or event security guards. The cabinet states that it would like to set up separate arrangements for this purpose. Mr Wiebes once spoke of "the mothball arrangement." We would prefer to speak of a kind of sleeping beauty arrangement, in which an entrepreneur could temporarily stop and then be kissed back to life. I'm curious how the cabinet sees it. How are we going to do that with social obligations, employees, debts, rent and taxes? How do we prevent this from becoming a kind of semi-bankruptcy for these companies? Mr. Chairman. One of the strong points in this package is that there is money for retraining. We just said, "Let's get to work on lifelong learning." We think this is a real momentum. We need to get rid of the fragmentation, boxes, groups and so on. It must be a wide-ranging and regional point of contact, where everyone can make accessible use of this retraining, because I believe that this is a huge opportunity in this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	All good words...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u30	... but of course there is one thing that is at stake: the arrangements that are now in place are simply being lost in the coming period. And what does the VVD, which always puts on big pants when it comes to entrepreneurs, to the catering industry, for example, the industry in which 500 000 people work and 40% of which are technically bankrupt, when those people and entrepreneurs see that their support is simply being cut short? While they're already having such a hard time, the VVD says: we're gonna lose weight. How are these people gonna stop them from throwing more people out on the street? How are you gonna stop this from getting the neckbeat for the whole sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u31	The PVV gives a false picture here that the sectors that are experiencing enormous difficulties are going to receive less support. In fact, the TVL is going up from €12,500 per month in fixed charges to €30,000. That's more than a doubling in a month for a lot of those entrepreneurs you mention, Mr. De Jong. These are not the entrepreneurs who have 80% or 70% of their former turnover. No, unfortunately, these are entrepreneurs who are much more affected. For the time being, therefore, they will continue to make use of this aid. The TVL is even getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u32	So beautiful always, such a debate trick, the TVL.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u33	That's not a debate trick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u34	Of course it's very good that the TVL is being expanded. On the other hand, there are all kinds of entrepreneurs who cannot make use of them. Look, for example, at the event sector, which is going to be very difficult. But I'm talking about the catering business. 500,000 people work there. 40% is technically bankrupt. I'm also talking to the hospitality department. He says to me: these austerities are going to make it very difficult for entrepreneurs who are already struggling when it comes to the NOW... It's gonna be worn out. I find it very strange that a coalition party here is going to claim that it is not being shattered. I mean, read the pieces, look at the amount at NOW 1 and look at the amount at NOW 3. If you don't understand that, you don't belong here at all. But the point is that this catering entrepreneur can simply make less use of these arrangements. Whether it's the turnover determination or the fee, it could be the neckbeat for the catering industry. Hundreds of thousands of extra people on the street. What do you say to these people? My only question to the VVD is: is the VVD prepared to remove those austerities for the NOW and for example for the Tozo at least for the next six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u35	I would advise Mr De Jong to read the documents himself. He just mentioned the difference between NOW 1 and NOW 3. The big difference for the catering industry is that in NOW 1 there was only 30% extra on a salary and in NOW 3 I don't know if you know the answer. That is precisely because of the catering industry, because it said: boys, this pinches with us, this is not right with us; can you raise it? So that is the big difference between these two schemes. Once again, for those sectors which are currently struggling, this aid is still there for the time being. But it is true that we are going to normalize for a number of sectors. To a number of sectors we say: if you have lost 20% turnover... You know as well as I do that this is not about the catering industry; it gets really heavier hits. That's why we're increasing the TVL. It is precisely to those sectors that have unfortunately lost 20% that we say: you will have to normalise the period ahead. I think it is justified, on the one hand, to say that companies that need it less are slowly adapting to the economy and, on the other hand, to say that we are providing extra money in this package for companies that need it more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u36	Indeed, it does seem that the VVD does not quite have the facts in order. This increase in employers' costs has already taken place with NOW 2, not with NOW 3. So it already was. The NOW 3 does indeed reduce the remuneration to 60% of labour costs, while the NOW 1 and 2 and the first period of the NOW 3 were 90%. So you're gonna tear that restaurant guy's skin out of his ears. You say "normalize," but normalizing the VVD is letting companies go bankrupt and sending people home unemployed. That's normalizing the VVD. It is true that, while we are finding that the number of infections is increasing, this government apparently with the support of the VVD is reducing aid packages and deliberately letting employers go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u37	There will also be a percentage available in the NOW for exactly what I believe Mr Van Kent wants, namely retraining. That does not disappear in Mr Hoekstra's pockets. That is precisely what is being set aside, because the hospitality industry is going to be a difficult sector in the near future. Then you can leave people on the couch. Then you can keep people on the state drip. Or we could say to those people: you will receive a sum of this, precisely for retraining, to ensure that people are properly retrained to another sector. That's what we do for the employees. For employers, we ensure that the fixed charge ceiling is removed, that they do not receive a maximum of €12,500, but that they receive a maximum of €30,000 for fixed charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u38	The VVD really doesn't have the facts in order. It's really incredible; I hear colleagues saying it here too. 10% of this allowance should be made available for training. The question remains as to what will happen and what workers will have to do about it. At least it doesn't help the employer. In any case, it has no compensation for wage costs. 10%, but the fee will not be reduced by 10%. Eventually, it will be reduced to 60%, so you're talking. The VVD doesn't have the facts in order and talks out of it. It is true that these entrepreneurs are being abandoned. It is true that this aid is being reduced in such a way, while we are dealing with a second wave, when we are dealing with it, everyone sees the coming with a big blow, a second big blow on the labour market. And what does the VVD do? It leaves the workers in the lurch and leaves the employers bankrupt. It's outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u39	No. Mr Van Kent is also using a debate trick. The 10% goes to retraining. That's right, it ends. That is to ensure that we slowly adapt the packages to normalization, because we know that the situation will be really different in the coming period than before the corona crisis. I think it's healthy for you to take that down very slowly, one step at a time. But those fixed burdens remain. It must therefore be more real towards the employer. We offer the employee a solution through retraining. That's how you offer people perspective. The employer offers you a solution by increasing the TVL from €12,500 to up to €30,000, more than a doubling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u40	However, I would ask the VVD to stop using the covert language. I hear the VVD here a number of times saying "normalize." But it is actually said that companies go bankrupt and send people into unemployment benefits. That's normalizing the VVD. You can use all kinds of fine words for that, but that will be the case in practice. You know that as well as we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u41	No. I have just said that we are going to slow down in a number of areas. I also think it is fair to entrepreneurs that we are slowly saying: try to see if you can get rid of state aid. That's part of it, too, I hear a lot of entrepreneurs say. We can also tell by the numbers that they make less use of them themselves. But on the other hand, we're gonna do it much more focused and we're gonna do it where it's necessary. We spend money on sectors to retrain people, not to spend more than a year at home on the couch while they have zero perspective, but to retrain them to sectors where there are new jobs or where there are job shortages. On the other hand, we say to employers: the fixed burden continues and we are going to spend more money on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u42	Then I have Mr Stoffer, then Mrs Van Brenk and then Mr De Jong. Yeah, it was there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u43	I don't care much, but thank you for letting me interrupt now. It sounded like music to me that the VVD also sees that the postponement of taxes, which the government is proposing in the two years now, is too short a period for a number of entrepreneurs, not for all but for some. I also spoke with the SME Netherlands this week and they said: Mr Stoffer, SGP, can't you make a proposal to go to three or four years? We have talked about this for a while, and I will come up with a motion in which I propose that it be extended to four years for those entrepreneurs who need it. Is that also the proposal you are putting forward with D66, or can we put it together? Or do you have a completely different proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr Stoffer does indeed have a proposal that comes close to ours. So I suggest that we discuss this with each other in a moment, because the SGP is right to make a point. You can see that entrepreneurs say: I'm not gonna make that cup of coffee back. All the costs I've made and the taxes I've been getting on, I need a little time to do that. That blow is so big, if I have to do it in 24 months, it's gonna be really hard. That is what we need to be so real that we should not have it, and that is something that many entrepreneurs cannot have. So I think we should actually see if you can't make payback possible for up to 36 or 48 months. That seems very real to me. Fortunately, entrepreneurs are free to pay back sooner, if they wish or can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u45	I think it's a painful expression used by the VVD: "state drip." In my opinion, there is no entrepreneur in the Netherlands who is waiting for that. I wish we wouldn't talk about enterprising the Netherlands like that. But what I'm worried about is what I've put forward in my contribution and I don't understand why the VVD doesn't notice it's too early. I understand: it would be healthy if we were to cut back. But the momentum. We see that everything is going to increase again. In fact, we have said that the doors of the catering industry should be closed earlier, it is beginning to increase again. We can expect regional interventions. Then why does the VVD think that now is the time to build again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u46	To get back to the word "state drip" first. That's not my word, I hear that a lot from entrepreneurs. They are indeed very grateful, they are happy that they receive such support in the Netherlands, but it is for.I think that Mr, Mrs Van Brenk and I will not disagree on that.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They want to undertake, make their own money and have that security. I think that is what the package is doing in part. I think that Mr Van Brenk is right to raise a point. Let me put that question to the cabinet through you. What do we do with the package, always cut up in cubes of three months, if it does get really fast and we go to a total lockdown? If we lock up the Randstad and Brabant, you already have a very large part of our economy. So I think it is right, I say to Mrs Van Brenk, that we ask the cabinet what the scenarios are. I think the cabinet can give a good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u47	I'm glad I'm one of the men here in this room, that's nice. But I would like to ask the VVD that perhaps we are not already going to scale down, that we now stick to the level we have and then give the opportunity to take a step back a bit later. 'Cause I think we're just gonna kill a lot of corporations. I hope the VVD has an eye for that at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u48	We certainly have an eye for that. Fortunately, however, there is a link with a percentage of turnover. The companies that are really hit very hard in their turnover really go down a lot less than other companies that are hit less hard. If you look at that TVL again: if you're only at 20% to 40% of your sales, you get even more than in the TVL-2. So I think that's real. But once again, we need to keep our finger on the pulse of what will happen to the measures. I think that is a fair question from Mrs Van Brenk, whom I would like to pass on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u49	Just for the record and perhaps also good for the Acts: Mr Aartsen of the VVD claimed in reply to me that there would be no austerities, that it is not at all the case that fewer entrepreneurs... You may wish to say no, but you haven't read the documents. I suggest you read the Acts again. In reply to a question from me, you indicated that there would be no fewer entrepreneurs who would be able to use the NOW scheme. You said that, and I did read the documents. Can Mr Aartsen at least admit that, when it comes to the NOW, the minimum turnover loss to claim the scheme goes down from 20% to 30%? Can he therefore confirm that the rates of reimbursement are gradually reduced from 80% to 70% to 60%, and that this is ultimately a reduction in the scheme? And if it is a austerity, that fewer entrepreneurs will be able to make use of it, what could be the headbeat for entrepreneurs who are already in a very difficult position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u50	Mr De Jong's figures are, of course, correct, because this is only the specific component of wage costs. If you look at a company inside, you will see that an entrepreneur not only has to do with wage costs but also with the fixed charges. There is now a proposal to increase that remuneration. So yes, there is indeed going to be a cut-off, no one is making a secret of that, there are a number of reasons for that too, but you should not pretend that we are pulling the wool over all the entrepreneurs now. We say: the labour market must adapt, wage costs must adapt. I think that's fair to the people who work there, to give those people perspective. But then we also tell those entrepreneurs that the maximum fixed-cost payment is going up. That's what you should tell them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u51	What Mr Aartsen has to say is how the hell they should adapt. We look in the eyes of the second wave monster. Those companies have no opportunity to adapt at all! 40% of the catering industry is technically bankrupt. So what are you talking about? Adjust! They can't adapt at all. You're making a political game of the company and people's jobs. What are you doing? That's really unheard of. There are now companies in the hospitality industry, for example, that are technically bankrupt, that are going to get the neck blow when they can make less use of the NOW. And you're waving it away a little bit, you're using technical terms, while those companies are just falling over. Shame on you. My appeal is only through you, President, to Mr Van Aartsen: do not close your eyes to those companies that are now doing their stinking best to keep people in service, to keep their heads above water. And in the next six months, make sure those austerities go away. If that does not happen, then all your comments about entrepreneurs are hollow phrases; then the VVD will be of no use to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr De Jong now pretends that the TVL is a technical story. Sorry, you can't pretend the TVL is a technical story. That is a really fine arrangement for a lot of entrepreneurs, and I am glad that we are more than doubling it in this new package. Mr. Chairman. The winter months are coming. In particular, suppliers of events, such as tent rentals and stage builders, av companies, but also fairgrounds and festivals do not have any turnover in winter. That makes sense. The system we created at the TVL now threatens to receive €0 in these schemes. I wonder if the cabinet has this problem in mind. Does this problem play wider than just the fairgrounds and festivals, for which the cabinet announces solutions? Is the government also prepared to discuss this issue with some of these parties that have already spoken about it, such as the industry associations of tent rentals, stage builders and other suppliers in the event sector, and to see what is possible for these seasonal companies? I conclude with the many entrepreneurs a lot of strength, a lot of support but above all a lot of health to wish for in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr Aartsen talked about a lifetime of development. Then there were a lot of other interruptions, so I was actually hoping that he would go through with it, because it has been discussed for a long time in the Chamber and everyone thinks it is important, but in practice nothing happens. The second aid package contained the NL Leert Door scheme, which was transferred within a month. We read yesterday in the letter that this arrangement will only be opened in the new year. Does Mr Aartsen agree with GroenLinks that this is actually too late and that we need to see whether this arrangement can be opened as soon as possible, this year, so that many more people get help with retraining again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u54	As far as social affairs is concerned, I know that these are often no-brainers when you use your sane sense of farming, but then the Minister comes up with all kinds of implementation issues, which also sound quite logical. But here's the thing. Just in the interruptive debate with Mr Asscher, I was talking about this: I believe that this is an opportunity as a government to look not only at the big one, but also at the strong one, how to really help people. So we should not put people at the window and wish them a pleasant competition, but we should make sure that people really make that shift from work to work, switch to another sector and thus also get a perspective on a new job. So I guess that's definitely a possibility. And the fact that so many people use such a scheme shows that that scheme is not there for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u55	In short, we fully agree on that. But the situation is now just so that a lot of people want to take advantage of it. Over the past ten years, a great deal has been tried to set up such schemes. There was never anyone. Now, because of this crisis, there are finally people and now the cabinet says: after the coming year you may be the first. Is the VVD prepared to support us to make that possible again this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u56	I'm sure there's that willingness. I would add that, of course, I am always prone to reasonable arguments as to why it cannot be done. The people at the UWV are working terribly hard. I've never heard so many businessmen thank the UWV's officials that that's been different for the fact that they're getting the money into the account so quickly. So I think we should take that into account, but there is certainly a willingness to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr President, thank you very much. We must do everything we can to protect Dutch jobs and incomes. It is therefore incomprehensible that the cabinet is already seriously undermining the crisis arrangements. Hundreds of thousands of jobs are at stake and companies in the hospitality and event industry, for example, are facing enormous difficulties. One in three Dutch people expect to be unable to pay the bills in the near future. A social tragedy is taking place. Then this cabinet can't take the risk of even more bankruptcies, even more job losses and therefore even more uncertainty among all those hard-working Dutch who didn't ask for this at all and who already had a hard time before the corona crisis? Over the last few months, we have received many reactions from people who have been in great financial difficulties in a few weeks, for whom this corona crisis has come as an unprecedented blow, whose jobs are at stake or who have already been made redundant, who are seeing their income evaporate, while the permanent burdens continue to rise, who are unable to pay rent or mortgage and who have to put themselves in debt in order to survive. It is terrible and all under the first two packages of aid. We also receive reports from employers indicating that austerities are coming far too early and that they are afraid that they will have to put more people on the street because of these austerities. And now you're obsessing? We shouldn't do that. The PVV proposes to extend the current NOW, Tozo and TVL support package without austerity for the next six months. So don't cut the NOW fee and don't increase the turnover loss limit either. We also need to restore the Tozo, so without the partner key and the power key. Zzp'ers have it hard enough already. Mr. Chairman. What about this 10% space for companies to be able to fire people without any consequence of the subsidy? That earlier discharge fine turns into some kind of discharge bonus. That can't be true, can it? Get this off the table! We need more job retention and not more layoffs. But that can't be the end of it. There's room in the wallet right away. With that 0.8% purchasing power that the cabinet now promises, a lot of people are not gonna make it. If you count the local burdens, they'll just have to deal with a fat, fat min. These people have not been able to prepare for this crisis in recent years and have not been able to build up a buffer to take the hits. We must not forget that, even before this corona crisis, one in five households had to deal with payment problems and that the reality of overly expensive messages, too high rents and too high an energy bill already caused enormous problems. We can't look away from that. That is why I call on the cabinet to temporarily set VAT at 0% in the low rate. That's good for the wallet, and that's good for the economy. Also reduce the rents and the energy bill. That gives direct air in these difficult times. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I call on this cabinet to introduce a more generous payment scheme for entrepreneurs who have made use of deferred payments of taxes. They shouldn't feel the hot breath of the Tax Administration on their necks at this difficult time. We propose that the refund should not start on 1 January next year, but on 1 July. Also, the period of repayment should be 48 months instead of 24 months. Give entrepreneurs more air and more time. I'd like a response. Mr President, I will conclude. The Netherlands is having a hard time. The Dutch people have everything they need to get back on top of this and defeat this crisis, but then people should not be pushed into an even deeper crisis. It should not be that it is made even more difficult for them than it already is. We must avoid as much as possible that, when this crisis is over, ordinary hard-working Dutch people will continue to feel the financial consequences of this misery for many years to come. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We live in extraordinary times. If someone had predicted that we would be sitting here today and dealt with a third package of support for employees and employers of more than EUR 10 billion, everyone would have said you were crazy. And yet it is. We all know that Corona is far from gone and is probably only going to get more intense in the near future. Mr. Chairman. I think we are very much in agreement as House of Representatives on a number of things. We are very pleased that the cabinet is helping companies and employees to keep their heads above water at this difficult time. There's no discussion about that. However, there is a discussion as to how far we should go. Mr. Chairman. Are we happy with what's now? No, we don't think it's enough. We have an incredibly prosperous country. If we see that despite this prosperity we are abandoning a number of people, it hurts us and we think we should do something about it. This is particularly true of young people. We see that young people are getting the hardest hit in this crisis. In a few months, for example, the number of young people in the WW has tripled. That's unbelievable. It is therefore a little painful for us to see that young people are getting the most upset when it comes to the measures currently in place. For example, look at the Participation Act. In the Participation Act, basically the welfare, when you're over 27, you have more rights than if you're under 27. I think that's really weird. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to do something about this. We all know that when you become unemployed at a young age, this often haunts you for years to come. We must therefore prevent people from becoming unemployed, but also, above all, people from falling into poverty, because its effects are much and much greater. That is why I ask the Cabinet whether it is prepared to see if we can make the Participation Act fairer, so that young people get a fair chance of receiving benefits. The point is, for example, that they should not wait a month to receive benefits and that they should be allowed to earn a little extra in the benefit, just like people over 27, so that they do not end up in poverty. That is the crisis income we stand for. The second point that GroenLinks considers incredibly important is about retraining and helping with retraining. We all see that there are now a number of sectors where there will be less work in the coming year, probably in the coming years. At the same time, however, there are sectors, especially in the public sector, such as care, such as education, where we have been understaffing for many years and where it is likely that the next few years will only increase. Let's please match that with each other. Let us ensure that many more people get help, guidance to develop from one sector to another. In this respect, we are actually quite pleased with what was said in yesterday's letter from the cabinet about the point of contact for this. Indeed, we can say: is a window really going to help people? We think so. Last year GroenLinks has already argued for a work desk: one place to go as an employer or employee with all your questions about help, retraining, salary and income. We are very pleased that the cabinet is now aware of this and is actually taking that step. Mr. Chairman. A little less pleased we are with the help in retraining which is provided through NL learns by. I know that I had a rather fierce debate on this with Minister Koolmees when he discussed the second aid package. I said then that if you spend more than EUR 1 billion or EUR 10 billion on all kinds of measures, 50 million for retraining or a little bit little. At that time, I made a proposal to add 100 million. Minister Koolmees certainly said: no, it can't be; it's not going to go that fast; you're not getting rid of that money. Turned out what? That arrangement was transferred within a month. More than 22,000 people were dying to take advantage of it. As Frank Kalshoven wrote in the Volkskrant, the flag should be left with the Ministry of Social Affairs and, in my opinion, there should be a tompouces for all civil servants. I wonder if they eventually got it; I ask the Minister through you, Mr President. We can make fun of it, but it's an incredible success that so many people finally realize that they need to be retrained and that they may have to work in another sector. I read in yesterday's letter from the cabinet that it is prepared to open the scheme again to 40,000 people in the new year. I think that is a nice step, but I would really like to ask the cabinet whether it can do this already this year and whether it can't do it for a greater number of people. This is not about large amounts, but it is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u61	You were done, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u62	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u63	This is your fifth question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u64	I'm counting, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. We have already had discussions on further training and retraining. We see very often that a training course for people on benefits is very difficult, because we have had discussions about single mothers, for example, because they have difficulties with their benefits. If they go to school, they're not available for work. I ask GroenLinks if she can join in the next thought. We see that there are opportunities, in health care but also in education, for example, and that this takes more time than usual, because then you spend more years in school. Will GroenLinks also make a plea to this minister to make room for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u65	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you. That's short and powerful, that's how it can be. Thank you. Then I look at Mr Van Haga. Mr Van Raan would actually be the next speaker, but he is not here, which is why it is your turn right now. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u67	Also on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Mr. Chairman. The various support packages are impressive. This package of support is also huge. Several schemes are being extended, improved and adapted. That is a way of getting through the corona crisis for many sectors. Some companies are able to keep their heads above water as a result of these schemes. Different branches, such as the hairdressing industry, appear to have been saved. The brothels are open again and also the retail trade seems to be able to breathe a bit. But this does not apply to the catering industry, for example. Soon all companies that have applied for a stay at the Tax Office will be in trouble if they have to pay back. Is the Minister prepared to look at a longer repayment period? I am considering a motion on this point, but several others have already said something about it. How does the Minister deal with the legal consequences of the lack of power of payment associated with the postponement of the tax payment? I am also considering a motion on this. Mr. Chairman. You'll only rent tents in the event business. The industry association of the Dutch tent rental companies is the emergency clock. This primordial Dutch sector will not last for months. The TVL 2 scheme is particularly negative for this industry. If nothing is done, the end of the Dutch tent industry is near. What can the Minister do for this sector? Mr. Chairman. You'll only be working in the entertainment industry. You'll only be a sound technician or cameraman or own a discotheque. You're just gonna organize festivals or be an artist at one of those festivals. Then your turnover is zero and there's no arrangement that's gonna make sure you survive. I talk to these people every day, and I can't explain it anymore. The sacrifices are no longer in proportion to the goal we thought we had together, namely to combat a virus that would cause hundreds of thousands of victims. I understand very well that people are resisting and that people want their freedom, their work and their lives back. That is why it bothers me that people who stick their necks out in the public debate are immediately ridiculed by the media. If your tax-paid salary is paid by the NPO after all, it's easy to talk. A little compassion would be in order. Solidarity must come from both sides and can never be imposed unilaterally. If we all had to turn in half our salary here until the corona crisis was resolved, I think it would all have been arranged for the next salary payment. Finally. As far as I am concerned, the best support that this cabinet can give is the immediate lifting of the all-disrupting coronamat rules. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u68	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's hard to make predictions, especially when it comes to the future. What is clear is that we are in a health crisis and in an economic crisis. It's gonna cost us a lot of money. And that's good. It's good that we can do this. The financial crisis is set to rise to a budget deficit of up to 100 billion, added up over 2020 and 2021. An economic crisis that already costs 5% of our growth. If it is a bit disappointing, next year's unemployment will rise to 550,000 people. Those are predictions. If it is successful and the economy recovers, it will do something, but the question is whether it is a realistic assumption. I have the impression that today's situation is already more negative than when these plans were drawn up. I would like to know from the members of the Cabinet whether any changes are being considered. I know, we haven't even adopted the package yet, but are any changes being considered? It's a fact that it's not going well. The second corona wave has already presented itself and the question is indeed: are these assumptions still valid? What if there is not 3% growth in 2021 but 3% shrinking and unemployment rises by 10% to 800,000 people? Fortunately, this cabinet learned from the previous crisis. The previous cabinet aggravated and prolonged the crisis by burdening society with a budget cut of 52 billion. The fact that the government opened the money tap in the spring is absolutely good. Or, as the Minister of Finance said, we have deep pockets and we will do whatever it takes. The controls, the NOW, the TVL and the Tozo, are similar to oxygen administered to a patient who would otherwise suffocate. But the question is: is it wise to slowly but surely close that oxygen supply now, especially now that we have seen in the past two weeks that the situation is getting worse? So why charge the NOW with an ever lower rate of reimbursement, which goes to 60%? Why increase the minimum turnover reduction from 20% to 30%? Why increase the exemption rate, which does not need to be spent on salary, to 20%? The TVL 2 scheme is also being dissipated. Not as far as height is concerned, it is indeed going up, but it is going up in terms of turnover loss limit. It goes up from 30% to 40% and then to 45%. I understand that we can expect entrepreneurs to adapt their business and adapt to new circumstances, but the question is: is that realistic? Unnecessary and unnecessary restrictions are also included in the Tozo 3 scheme, the self-employed scheme. What's with the partner test? What's with the power test? Only unnecessary bureaucratic administrative burdens. Why is there no second TOFA scheme for flex workers and temporary workers? Why does the Cabinet leave these very vulnerable groups to their fate? It has already been recalled a few times: the deferred tax has been reduced to 1 October of this year. But why don't we let that depend on how the economy and the turnover of entrepreneurs develop? Why not more customization? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of uncertainty. The package goes until 1 July 2021, but now we have elections in March 2021. On July 1st we have a missionary cabinet. Does the cabinet assume that we have a new cabinet somewhere between March and July 1st? I must not forget that we have a outgoing cabinet and it is unclear what will be the follow-up package. We know that uncertainty in the economy is devastating, which leads to less spending and less investment. Is there any thought about a fourth package or a longer term? What about the idea of bringing people from disadvantaged to promising sectors? That is good in principle, there is a lot of talk about it and there is also money to be spent on it. People in the hospitality and retail sector could theoretically go to education and care, but practice shows that this is not so easy at all. The question is whether the EUR 70 million allocated is not a drop in the ocean. Mr. Chairman. I have two more points. I speak to many entrepreneurs who are stuck, who cannot go forward or backwards, who are technically bankrupt. But they do make use of that scheme, because it is there, and it costs taxpayers' money while there is little prospect of recovery. Wouldn't it be helpful if the cabinet could do something to help those entrepreneurs stop? If we can spend EUR 180 million of community money to stop mink breeders, why can't we spend money to help entrepreneurs who don't like it? All the way to the end. The CPB has indicated that the most vulnerable groups of young people and people with migrants are disproportionately affected. How will the Cabinet monitor that this support, this package, will also reach them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u70	Mr Azarkan spoke about companies that quit. I would like to make it very clear, because I also asked a number of questions to the cabinet. There is a lot of talk about such an arrangement. Is it really meant to stop permanently, or should it be an arrangement in which all the mothballs called it "mothballs" come out of the stop mode again? They are supposed to be temporarily in the fridge, so they can move on afterwards. I am curious to see what Mr Azarkan is looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u71	I know entrepreneurs as highly creative. As far as I'm concerned, it's both possible. I think there are entrepreneurs who really want to leave. I often talk to entrepreneurs who say, "I'm totally stuck, I'm in debt. Part of it's funded by the government, I'd rather not, but I'm really stuck in it. I just don't get out because the contracts go through, but I'd like to get out and start something else." But there are also entrepreneurs who say, "What if we get a vaccine in a year, it runs and we can go back to the normal situation? Then I'd be happy to go on." As far as I'm concerned, we can do both. You can freeze it, you can also say you stop completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u72	Then I am glad that the VVD and DENK find each other in that problem and together...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u73	But as parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yeah, that's why, that's for sure. We share the appeal to the Cabinet to proceed quickly with such an arrangement in order to deal with these problems quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about extending the aid package until 1 July next year, and that is sensible. That package of support is unprecedented. We have seen in recent months how hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, millions of workers and many self-employed people were supported during this unprecedented economic crisis due to corona. I am also pleased that, in addition to the schemes for entrepreneurs, employees and self-employed persons, the package also provides a large amount of money for culture; half a billion, in addition to the general schemes that they can also use, for municipalities, for broadcasters and, for example, for specifically affected sectors. I agree with the question raised by Mr Aartsen on how we deal with sectors that are caught up in the seasonal pattern. To what extent has the maximum level been achieved in this scheme in order to meet this? I am very aware that it is sometimes very complicated in implementation, but that question also poses the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs. The package also contains a large social package. We got a lot of information about that this morning: 1.4 billion. As far as D66 is concerned, we are now finally going through this crisis to take that big step towards more from work to work, to real guidance and to lifelong learning. There are still major steps to be taken in this regard. I was just discussing the deployment of R&D funds or sector funds in a small debate with Louis Asscher. I would like to ask the Minister how that is really secured, along with all the other points. I am also very specifically concerned about whether we have properly framed this. Is it really gonna happen? Freeing money is one thing, but we haven't helped anyone yet. After the letter, I would like to explain a little more about how this is done in practice and how organisations such as UWV, municipalities and social partners are really going to work together. This also requires that we all occasionally come from our traditional comfort zone. Mr. Chairman. Then about the position of young people. Together with colleague Gijs van Dijk we have already made a separate arrangement for flex workers. That was a lot of kids. I'm also worried about school leavers. How can we ensure that they too are well helped by municipalities? Mr Smeulders has already mentioned this. That's what I thought was right. What is more, it is also about self-employed people who may receive support from the municipality while they are currently not receiving benefits. In the documents it seems that only self-employed persons who are covered by the third Tozo scheme or self-employed scheme are being helped. Shouldn't we also help municipalities with self-employed people who are in trouble, but who will not receive this benefit, for example, because of the partner or asset test, when they do need support? How are we going to enable municipalities to help them? Then perhaps my final sentence, Mr. Chairman. Then there will be a natural bridge. A bit wider: a power test is introduced. I understand that, but are we gonna monitor what that does? Self-employed people are concerned that they are now losing all their pension reserves. How are we going to monitor in practice how this goes and whether too many self-employed people fall between shore and ship?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u79	I think it is right that D66 should be concerned about the position of young people. Previously, thanks to the efforts of Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Gijs van Dijk, the TOFA was developed. It was meant to give young people who were entitled to few things. This proved to be very complicated in practice, despite all good intentions. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that it makes more sense to make assistance more fair in the next step through the Participation Act for young people? You can make the difference that there is now between 27-plus and 27-min smaller, or as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u80	That is, in part, a fundamental change. We have also encountered this before, for example in the support that young people can receive as self-employed. I have read interesting proposals about this in recent days, including from your party. I find that interesting, apart from the fact that I would like to give more room for local authorities for extra-earning customization in the main Act of Participation. It's unrelated to the corona crisis. I'm not looking for it in an extension of the TOFA right now, but more in customization. This will enable municipalities to provide the help they need. For example, I saw something about temporarily disabling the waiting periods. I find that all interesting suggestions. In my opinion, they do respond to the concerns that GroenLinks and D66 share. That is that young people who need help are now at risk of falling between ships.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u81	I think that Mr Van Weyenberg's answer is very hopeful. I also understand that it is difficult to grow a lot into the Participation Act within a week, but we do have a crisis situation. In any case, I would also like to see much more extra income under the Participation Act. If we agree that young people are now extra vulnerable and that it is a little weird that people over 27 are allowed to earn extra money in the Participation Act and younger people are not, I think we can arrange that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u82	I totally agree with that. In my view, I agree with you in the main on the direction of the Participation Act. If we start that fight now, we won't be helping the young tomorrow. I find your suggestion that at least temporary space should be provided in the context of corona very interesting. I had a taste of goodwill in the cabinet letter. I encourage them. That is not only because I like to get the support of GroenLinks, but also because I think this is just sensible. I have a number of points which are no longer about the position of the workers, but more about the entrepreneurs and the companies. I have just asked a question about the sectors and the seasons. The events and the fairgrounds were mentioned. I have a very specific question about zoos. $39 million is available for that. That amount is needed, I also say as a lover of Artis and Blijdorp. Yesterday, I read that municipalities are also joining forces, including loans. I would like to ask the cabinet to talk to zoos about the very special role they have. Not only do a lot of people go there, often with their children, with great pleasure, but it is also a place where a lot of international research is being done and where breeding programmes are for endangered species. I would find it really indigestible if we kept zoos open in the crisis, but if this kind of international wildlife protection breaks down. So would the cabinet like to enter into this conversation as well? In decades, international structures have often been built. We really can't let that stop, let alone disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party is not here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u84	Then I take the liberty of saying that I assume that Mr Van Raan shares this. I think we're sharing this with each other, and no one wants programmes for endangered species to stop. I understand that this may be a somewhat strange duck in the bite of this debate, but this is about the support package, so I should like to make the point today. Mr. Chairman. Mr Aartsen also mentioned: can we help entrepreneurs who are looking for new concepts that they want to get approved? Can we help companies with field labs and stuff? That sounds like D66 to me. My final point is the tax delay. As of January 1st, you can no longer apply for a further extension. I think it is very sensible to give businesses more than 24 months to pay back. They scribble up and then we have to give them the time and not let them start on 1 January with and no more delay and pay them back immediately. Let's put a little time in there. That seems very sensible to me. Finally, a cri de coeur. We're talking support packages. When the crisis gets deeper, we'll be in a new situation. There are a number of points where there is an extension and there are a number of points where there is a limitation in this package. But if we all hope that it doesn't happen, then much more restrictive measures will have to be taken, then that will also mean that we have to look at this package again. In this sense, corona policy on the care side is still the most important support package and that we all adhere to the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u85	On this very last point, I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg a question. Is it not true that the package we are discussing today has already been overtaken by current events?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u86	When I look now, I see that a great deal can be done in many sectors and that a lot of people like it. If I walk on the street and see what can be done in the catering industry and what can be done on the shopping street, then thank God that's a lot more than when we were in the intelligent lockdown. However, Mr Van Kent is right on one point: the assumption in this package is that the crisis is not getting much worse, with a lot of additional restrictive measures, causing businessmen to stall and jobs to be compromised. If that does happen, but let us do everything we can to prevent it, then there is a new situation. Then we'll have to look again. I think that is exactly the call I made and that is also in line with Mr Van Kent's concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u87	I note that today we are talking about reducing the aid package to 60% of the wage costs reimbursed. That's a really huge cut-off. In the meantime, the reality is that the problems are increasing again. In D66's view, is it not totally irresponsible to agree to a reduction in aid? Should we not now say to the cabinet: will the support packages be built instead of aborting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u88	We are voting today on a nine-month extension of the aid. Let's establish that for a moment. The aid packages will all stop on 1 October if we do not decide today: we shall be voting formally on the extension of the package for nine months. Mr Van Kent is right to say that there are a number of areas where the packages are being extended. A timetable has been agreed on a number of points, namely that if things improve, a company must be in deeper difficulties to be eligible for aid. That's something I think can be defended. But Mr Van Kent seems to have already given up that we can stop the second wave. I'd like to do anything about that. But I fully agree with Mr Van Kent: if it turns out that we need to take additional measures in a moment to stop businesses, to close terraces and to stop the catering industry, then we are entering a new phase. But again, let's do everything we can to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u89	Finally, Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u90	I think we should be prepared. Mr Van Weyenberg is right: we are talking about an extension today. But in this extension there is a huge austerity: the remuneration to companies for labour costs goes from 90% to 60%. That's a huge reduction. In this way, we are not prepared for what may be in store for us. We must now say to the government: adjust that and stop this austerity. We shall then vote in favour of continuing aid to these companies without any phasing-out. In my view, it is not the time for this and it is also totally irresponsible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u91	Firstly, we are voting on an extension, otherwise everything would stop on 1 October. I'm gonna take a look at what happens on October 1st. Take the NOW. Yes, the percentage of aid goes down by 10%. But there is a social package of 1.4 billion on the other hand. So that's, in a different way, actually more focused on supporting employees. I think Mr Van Kent, like me, is pleased with that package. And yes, after the next nine months there is now a path, in which a further step back is taken on 1 January and 1 April. But I also see that Mr Aartsen was right to extend the TVL scheme. And precisely because we have that path, if it turns out that we need to do more, we need to change the package. So we give nine months of clarity and we say: if we, God forbid, have to go back to an intelligent lockdown and again, let's do everything we can to prevent that from happening. But the basis now is that I assume that we are still going to prevent it and that we must do everything we can to prevent it. So I ask the cabinet: if we get into this situation, can we also expand immediately, without delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u92	It's a good thing the TVL is being expanded. However, access to this is also being reduced. The number of companies that have access to this will soon be reduced. That's what needs to be told. But what I would also like to point out is that in the NOW case, you have to have 30% turnover loss in order to be able to use it. Now there are companies which, for example, have a 25% turnover loss, or at least a 30% turnover loss. So they'll be out of the boat in no time. Whether it is an industry such as the catering industry, where 500 000 people work and where 40% of companies are technically bankrupt, the event industry or the retail sector, or anywhere else, would it not be wise not to restrict access to the NOW? Then we do not give that extra push to all those entrepreneurs to fall over, because that could happen. Is Mr Van Weyenberg prepared to do so and does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u93	We share the analysis that we still have a lot of support to go through, and we do. Then you can ask: is it wise to raise the bar in that package, in terms of loss of revenue, what? In a package you know you can't go through with it until the end of time in this form, I get that step. But here is actually the same thing as in reply to Mr Van Kent; it is an assumption. Fortunately, this is the case for a lot of entrepreneurs; many self-employed people are still far from being able to work, and not all in the way they should. But I think that the fact that you are always making the package one step less spacious is something I can defend. There is an improvement on the intelligent lockdown, which was there when the package started. But if it turns out that we should go back to that, which we all do not want, then we are going to talk about this kind of thing again, as far as I am concerned. Then I fully agree with Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u94	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u95	But when is that weighing moment? Those entrepreneurs can't wait for that, can they? Imagine you're a company. You're already technically bankrupt, but you're doing your best to keep the people in service. I don't know how many companies. Those companies now see: "Yes, I am eligible for NOW 3. I'm glad." But then they see that they just can't use it. There's gonna be a problem with all those people who are gonna be out on the street. Isn't this much and far too early, and you're not prepared to say, "We're looking that monster from the second wave deep into the eyes right now. Then let's do this in January"? We do not want that; we do not want any austerity over the next six months. But give something to those entrepreneurs who are now sending out the signal that they are not gonna make it with the austerities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u96	What I see above all is that a lot of entrepreneurs I talk to say, "I'm so glad you're not stopping on 1 October, because I'm still a long way from what it was," and that solutions and customization are offered for specific industries. I have listened carefully to a number of seasonal sectors that are concerned. I asked a question about this, and you asked it. There's one point you're right about. When this package was presented, I was less concerned than I am today. So I'm also asking the Cabinet, if it turns out it has to, to turn those buttons again as soon as possible. We are talking about the turnover threshold and, as far as I am concerned, the level of support for the self-employed. But I haven't given up the courage yet that we're going to be able to really prevent that second wave. Mr De Jong is right: if it does, we also need to scale up very quickly where it is needed. But again, that would be a real nightmare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group also appreciates this third package of support. It's long-term and robust. That gives certainty and confidence. I have three questions about the focus of the aid. First, CBS reports that the number of bankruptcies in August was the lowest in 21 years. Does this mean that with public aid we also keep companies that would not have stood up in healthy times? How does the Minister read these figures? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the motion tabled by my colleague, Mr Van der Graaf, who is asking for debtor-friendly measures to be included in the Bankruptcy Act? That motion is becoming increasingly urgent. Secondly, I ask the cabinet to what extent social responsibility has been taken into account in the design of this support package. My group chairman tabled a motion in May calling for conditions to be imposed on companies in the event of public aid in order to promote them with respect for people, animals and the environment. The ESC and the OECD also recommend this. To what extent are such conditions incorporated in the NOW 3? Thirdly, the same applies to employers who stick their necks out to offer people a learning job or a work-to-work path. Does this also benefit employers? Are the resources allocated from work to work only on the routes or do employers also receive a piece of labour cost subsidy for this? Mr. Chairman. It is good that there is now a full commitment to retraining and further training. My group believes it is very important that the focus on lifelong development should not be watered down again. We need to use the lessons of this crisis to actually move towards learning rights for everyone, for example through a personal development budget. I welcome the joint initiative presented by the MBOs, colleges and universities last Monday to give all workers one week of learning rights per year, or even two weeks of learning rights for employees with a degree to MBO 2. Minister Koolmees has received this opinion. I'm asking him how he looks at this report. What concrete steps is he going to take to make a real lifelong development? We've been talking about it for so long, but this is the time to do it concretely. Can private MBO schools join these plans? How does the Minister implement the Palland/Bruins motion, which calls for the regions to be involved in a lifetime of development? Are we going to use the European Recovery Fund to boost lifelong development? We receive a substantial amount from that fund and I think this theme is particularly suitable for investing in it. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw particular attention to young people. Their starting position and prospects have changed dramatically. It is good to see that coalition-Y sits at the table with the cabinet to think about the position of young people, and that they have now managed to reach our parliament to ring the bell. The cabinet is releasing 325 million to combat youth unemployment. Much of that money goes to the municipalities and is intended for vulnerable school leavers, but the municipalities have a large proportion of those school leavers not at all on their retina. They're at home and their parents are holding hands in their hair. You're gonna have to pull those school leavers out of the bank personally and intensively escort them. How do municipalities reach those young people who are not in the card box? I believe that schools, associations and civil society organisations have a crucial role to play in this. How is the Minister going to involve these parties so that we can actually reach the young people? Mr. Chairman. There is a need for more internships, more learning places; already 20,000 places and perhaps up to 50,000 in the coming months. I would like to hear from the Minister what role the government itself can play in this as an employer, for example by offering additional internships or taking an extra set of national trains, etc. I am also curious to see what role social service can play in reducing youth unemployment. Wouldn't this be a good way to keep young people active? It can be a nice step towards being active in society and perhaps even to a job. My group considers it important that we also dare to look at what is needed in the labour market of the future. How does the cabinet ensure that we train young people and lead them to those sectors where they are really needed and have a future? The Christian Union believes that we should look closely at this and make honest choices. I had an interrupting debate with Mr Asscher on this. He mentioned that there should be work streets in addition to test streets, but are those work streets actually going to lead to those sectors where we need people? Do we dare to make those choices as a society? Do we dare to choose that the exit of such a street is the care, education and technology: where we need people? Finally, Mr President. The package also includes resources for social work companies and social entrepreneurs. This is crucial, because if we are not careful, a new group of long-term unemployed will be created at the basis of the labour market. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, social work companies have a central role to play in helping and keeping people at work. That is why it is right that they should receive 50 million in support. But is that enough, given the nine-month duration of this support package? What is needed there and how is the cabinet going to monitor that those sw companies are not falling down? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months, the government has opened up the funds to support the economy, and the SGP has supported it. It is good that the cabinet is slowly reducing emergency support with the third aid package, but the message of the SGP is: do so with caution and with regard to individual cases. Mr. Chairman. There was support for start-ups and scale-ups. There were over 1,000 applications for the corona bridging scheme, but more than half of them were rejected. Invest-NL has reserved EUR 100 million, but has only granted one loan of EUR 4 million. My appeal to the rulers is: look carefully whether this, perhaps too, rigorous selection policy does not unnecessarily put companies in trouble while they could have been helped. That is a very specific question from me. Mr. Chairman. The SGP has pointed out in previous debates that companies are unjustly outside the Fixed Charges scheme because they have the wrong SBI code. Fortunately, this has already been dealt with, but it remains a problem that threatens unnecessary bankruptcies. I call on the government to come up with a more refined approach. Mr. Chairman. I also think it is important for the cabinet to keep in touch with entrepreneurs and, fortunately, I hear a lot of positive reports on this, but unfortunately there are not only positive reports. This is how I spoke this week with the KNV, the trade association for, among other things, coach companies. This association has sent several letters with concrete proposals, but I understand that they have not even received an acknowledgement of receipt and that in their experience it is somewhere between the ministries of IenW and EZK. I do not think that can be true and should not remain so. So I ask my question to the Minister of EZK, but also, of course, to the whole cabinet: does he want to talk to this industry in the short term? I would like to have a concrete commitment on this point. The SGP has previously referred to other companies with high fixed charges, for which €30,000 offers far too little relief. Think of tent rental companies, for example, but also many other companies. My question is whether the Minister will also invest more in tailor-made approaches for these companies. If I take this customization approach further, my question is whether, for example, the directors also want to support companies in the travel sector by contributing to a voucher bank, where companies can borrow to repay unused vouchers. Does the Minister also have an eye for the small sole proprietorships for which the current arrangements offer little relief, such as small travel agencies? For example, as a result of the VAT exemption, these travel agents are eligible for less assistance than other companies. Very specifically, I would also like to mention the out-of-arms trade; I am talking about the market merchants, in plain Dutch. Those too have a hard time when they cannot work on markets or have to keep too much distance and are not in their normal place. For this sector too, these market buyers, I would like specific consideration to be given to how they can get through the winter. Mr. Chairman. Then there are also companies that are not going to be in trouble for the next few months. I might mention, for example, the infrastructure or the ordinary utility building, because assignments are still going through a bit but the order book may gradually dry up because people simply have less to spend. My question is how the Minister will prevent those companies that are still operating well from getting into trouble. How will they be helped? I understand that the cabinet is already putting this question together. That's good. Mr. Chairman. Then a few things for Minister Koolmees. She thinks, of course, that's how I get away. But it's not like that! The impact of the youth unemployment approach is very vague for the large amount of 350 million. Much is left to the regions. Wouldn't a more rural, generic support be needed for entrepreneurs who want to continue to offer young people a place and security in order to stay longer in education? Wouldn't that be nice? Why is the additional subsidy for apprenticeships limited to agriculture, catering and recreation, while the figures from the UWV show that it is also going to be very difficult for young people in other sectors? Then the BIK, the Job-related Investment Discount. There's a reason that this arrangement is job-related. This also seems to be the right path for the SGP: stimulating investment, focusing on employment. My questions to the Minister are: how are you going to ensure that employment is promoted, and will there also be clear criteria for measuring the impact on employment? Then, Mr President, the issue of deferred taxes, which I have just mentioned in an interrupting debate with the VVD. Let's be very clear: nice that something is there. But it's too thin for us. I would like to see a longer period of three or four years. I've already spoken to the VVD and D66. The proposal from them that's there fits us as well. This is really an essential point for us to be able to support this package. So my question to the Minister is: please let that continue. As a concluding remark, Mr President, we see that all the arrangements will be phased out from January 2021. In itself, that's good. We can support that, too. But my question is: how is the cabinet going to ensure that this is feasible in practice for entrepreneurs without getting into financial difficulties? I would also like to have a reaction to that. Of course, that's related to the customization I've just appointed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u101	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Palland on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Our society is being put to a huge test at the moment. Corona causes a great deal of human suffering and economic damage, at the same time unleashes unprecedented resilience and solidarity, but also exposes mercilessly the weaknesses and looming errors in our economic system. Flex workers, young people with a zero-hour contract, people with little or no buffers: they proved to be the cushions of the business cycle, which were the first to enter the WW in April and many of them needed help. Corona also forces companies into other earning models. The time of mass is cash register, with many people, seems to be over without vaccine for the time being. Who could have thought a year ago that national icons like Carré, Lowlands, the brown fleet, Diergaarde Blijdorp or our fairground culture should fear and fight for their survival, and with them many other ancient Dutch companies, from zzp to large business, from SMEs to multinational? Even for many family businesses, some more than a century old, transfer to a next generation has become uncertain. Fortunately, the cabinet has been able to provide help with quick action and support packages. This third support package provides clarity for a longer period, nine months: support and guidance, which supports and prepares companies, workers,zzp'ers and young people for a new reality. That brings me to a first question. The NOW 3 and the TVL 2 are phased out. What if we find ourselves in a new lockdown? How quickly can we then scale up and adjust percentages if necessary? Do we understand that the development of the reference periods for the NOW and the TVL has yet to be developed? This is particularly the concern of seasonal companies, such as those in the event sector. The CDA has already called several times for attention to Dutch entrepreneurs who live in Belgium or Germany and have their business here. They are not eligible for a Tozo benefit and are often unable to rely on such schemes in their country of residence. There is still a difference of opinion with the European Commission, but a solution remains and that feels unsatisfactory. Do we have the size of where it pinches? What can and will the Minister do on this point? Many entrepreneurs have been granted deferred tax payments, many of whom have already been appointed. With effect from 1 January, refunds should be made within two years. We have made sure that this is going too fast, especially the two-year period, now that the crisis is continuing and this has to be paid in addition to the regular tax payment. How does the Minister see this? Part of the third support package is an additional social package to guide people from work to work through a regional approach, to combat poverty and debt and to tackle youth unemployment. The success of this falls or stands with good results and monitoring. For example, the first budget of NL was taught by Mr Smeulders in no time, without knowing whether this has actually reached the target group. Can the minister tell us how he's gonna send this? What does he think of the appointment of an external envoy to monitor and report back to us? Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis has great consequences for us as people, but also for the quality of life in villages and cities. Tourists stay away, online shopping is increasing and emptying is worsening. For this reason, the CDA would like the funds earmarked by the Cabinet for the restructuring of business areas and shopping areas to be used by municipalities to enable them to maintain their viability. Is the cabinet prepared to look into this and make a proposal to that effect? Mr President, I will conclude. The CDA can agree to the third aid package, but we also want to look beyond 1 July next year when this package is over. Our economy and labour market must be fairer and more resilient. Our companies must remain competitive. That is why, in addition to all the temporary emergency measures we are currently taking, we call for structural instruments to be developed that can help companies and workers in future crises. Take, for example, the part-time WW, on which the Borstlap Committee also makes proposals. What's the Minister's position on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u103	I hear that the CDA is also concerned about the reimbursement of deferred taxes. Well, that sounds good. There is now a nice proposal from VVD and D66. I also hear the PVV moving in that direction. My specific question is as follows. Worrying is one thing, doing something is two. Is the CDA therefore going to support the SGP's proposal of VVD and D66.................................................................................................................. 'Cause that's where the crux is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u104	Yeah, sure. I have heard that many parties have called attention to this. So those feelings live wide here, also on our side. I do not know exactly what the text of the proposal is. I've seen that you've been in conclave with the gentlemen for a while. Perhaps I can do that, too, to take a look at the precise proposal. But I do think it would be useful to look at an extension of the deadline for reimbursement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u105	That's clear. I hear that the CDA is going to support this wonderful proposal, if I am right, in three years' time and starting on 1 July. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u106	I'll take a good look at the lyrics, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u107	I see Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Bruins. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u108	I would like to ask the CDA whether it is not partly concerned about the development of corona. Isn't it a little early to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u109	Of course, we are all concerned about the rising figures. That has been the subject of a debate this week. It is important that we maintain our support in society, that we really stick to the measures, that we take responsibility in them and that we call on each other to keep a distance of 1.5 metres. That's very important. If that doesn't work, the result is that it's gonna get out of hand for the economy. We see that risk, of course.I tried to address that in my contribution when I asked what we're going to do if we really get into a lockdown again. Luckily, we're not at that point yet. I think the stakes should be focused first to prevent that. But let's say it is. What can we do with these measures? I believe that we have had an exchange of views with Mr Koolmees on this before, but I think it is a good thing that we are now having another reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u110	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-4.u111	I shall suspend the sitting until 1 p.m. Then first we say goodbye to our colleague Anne Mulder. Then we will continue with the debate.
