ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	We now turn to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks' question about sexual abuse of underage boys in youth care institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Almost a year ago, health inspections alerted about the situation in youth care. "The most vulnerable young people are not adequately protected," they wrote in an alarming report. Inspections are bodies that supervise on behalf of the government. When they say that, there really is something going on. If it is also known that vulnerable young people are not adequately protected while they are under government supervision, then the same government must act. If we don't, the government can be deeply, deeply ashamed. And more importantly, the government must act immediately to improve the situation and help these young people. This can be done, for example, by investing in aid workers, and by reducing groups so that there is more support for these young people who are most vulnerable. This can also be done by investing in education. But we are now almost a year further and the situation has deteriorated, I dare say here. For example, it has recently been announced that as many as 30% fewer employees have been entered into the youth care system compared to a year ago. And we also know that because of the high workload and because of the heaviness of the work, many people are running out of youth care. Last weekend, I was also shocked by the message in the Leeuwarder Courant that underage young people staying in a youth care institution are being recruited and sexually abused. They're being put under pressure to commit criminal offences. I am well aware that this Secretary of State barely has this portfolio for a week, and that this is a very difficult subject to talk about immediately in our first conversation. But I do have a number of questions, because this is very important. This is about the future of the most vulnerable young people. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State the following. What has actually happened since last year's report on the inspections in which they raised the alarm to help the most vulnerable young people? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that there should be immediate work on smaller groups, on better guidance for these young people, and on education in youth care institutions as well? I'd also like to ask the Secretary of State if we have an image. How many young people are we talking about right now? Is this just the situation in Leeuwarden, or does it play a broader role, including in the rest of the country? And what will the Secretary of State do now to help these and other young people? Has there been any contact with the Safety House in Leeuwarden? There seem to have been signs for some time now and they have been ringing the bell for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Last week I was allowed to take over the Youth portfolio from Minister De Jonge. That is a very nice wallet with very nice sides, but also with very black sides. What we are talking about today is one of the darkest aspects of our society: abuse of young people in a vulnerable position. I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld's commitment on this point; let there be no misunderstanding about that. It refers to the lower influx of youth care workers. That is a worrying phenomenon. And she also wonders what has happened since last year with the most compelling recommendations on improvement. If I am not mistaken, we will soon be discussing the report of the De Winter Committee in plenary. I think that's what Mrs Westerveld is referring to. And we have a broader debate on the whole youth policy in November. I would like to go through all these aspects, but I do not want to run away from the questions that Mrs Westerveld is asking. The reason was the article in the Leeuwarder Courant in which huge misunderstandings, serious calamities and wrong practices are noted in the clinic there. Of course, we already knew that girls are massive victims of loverboys, wrong practices. But it must make us seriously think that boys are also the victims of this, increasingly, it seems. Mrs Westerveld asks if I know how many young people are involved. Yeah, we just wish we knew. I'll find this homework and I'll come back to how we're gonna get a better look at it. Two aspects of how this is done in practice make this difficult. How are young people recruited, recruited for very wrong practices, for sexual abuse or for criminal activities? Young people are physically recruited, just with cars out front of the clinic. In addition, it is difficult for emergency workers to detect who owns that car. Is that from a family member, from an aid worker, or from someone with very bad intentions? I don't know if they're gonna go to every car to open the window and ask what kind of intentions anyone has. That's hard enough. And it is certainly very difficult when it comes to digital practices, via social media. With a few clicks on the button, people with very bad intentions are vulnerable young people. We need to signal it and improve it. This is also why things have been set in motion. Together with JenV's colleague, we have now started the following things. This is also a response to the recommendations made last year. First of all, there is an assignment from Youth Care Netherlands. The Azough Commission has gone to work. It has developed tools in 2016, not only for better alerting but also for cooperation with the police. How wide is that going to be? I would like to inform the Chamber about this in the run-up to the November legislative consultation. CoMensha, the organisation that portrays trafficking in human beings and is against it, is receiving a grant from VWS. That is the second point I would like to mention in this context.............................................................................................................................................. Thirdly, the police are now in the process of piloting youth aid institutions for better cooperation and exchange of information between police and youth aid. That's always very exciting. Mrs Westerveld knows that because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	... it's about privacy-sensitive information. I would like to say, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	...that a lot of things have been set in motion. I'd like to inform the Chamber about the progress. A logical moment is when we publish CoMensha's progress letter Together against trafficking in human beings. That will be in November of this year. Then we can indicate where we are right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	Yes. The response of the directors should also take up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	But I get so many questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yes, Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman. I asked a lot of questions, because there is also a lot going on. I understand this wallet is new. It is indeed sometimes a beautiful portfolio, but it is often also a very heavy portfolio. The problems in youth care have gotten out of hand in recent years. If we know that there is much less influx of new employees and that current employees often leave the sector, then I am not very happy when I look to the future. It is true that a number of legislative proposals are coming up. We are going to talk about the De Winter Committee, but I always wonder what we are doing very concretely for young people who are now in trouble, who are now vulnerable and who are now being approached. That is the problem with legislative proposals: if we set them in motion, then it is a question of what they will solve and b then it will take a few more years. Mr. Chairman. When something becomes clear, also from the report of the Leeuwarder Courant, it is that young people are not only approached through someone who, so to speak, stands and rings at the gates of a clinic with his car, but that it also happens very much online. Of course, that brings with it a new challenge. I'd like to ask the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	Sorry. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if there is sufficient capacity to resolve this online. Are there agreements with social media platforms or is he willing to make agreements with social media platforms about grooming, accessing young people online? And is the Secretary of State also prepared to talk to aid organisations to think with them about how we can deal with these problems properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	Those are a few specific questions. Let me put it first before there is any misunderstanding that I am worried about this problem together with Mrs Westerveld. This really creates a bond, because this really matters to me. What can we do? In my opinion, we do not need legislative proposals for everything to be done now. In fact, next Wednesday there will be a wide consultation with youth aid institutions. That is my first administrative consultation with them, and I promise to do so; that is a fruit of this question, and I will also put this issue on the agenda and see what we can do with each other in the short term. I would like to raise the question of what we can do about grooming through social media platforms and how the police can optimally address it, even when it comes to the capacity that is available. I promise Mrs Westerveld that I will put these themes on the agenda on Wednesday. I hope that, before the legislative consultation in November, I can indicate what concrete steps we are taking in the shortest possible time to help this super-vulnerable target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mrs. Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have one final comment to make. I am glad that the Secretary of State takes this issue seriously and wants to take it up. I would ask him to take this up with the young people themselves. As far as social media is concerned, they often know better than adults what is going on and where the dangers are. Many young people also find it difficult to report, because they are still in the picture with possible perpetrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	So I'd like to do one last apple. Involve young people and ask them what they need, not only to report but also to tackle and solve this problem more widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	I would like to thank Mrs Westerveld for this free advice. I will certainly take that to heart. I do that on other files that I have been responsible for for for a long time. Also when it comes to social service and homeless and homeless young people, I involve young people in this. And this is certainly a very timely issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	First Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP and then Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	This is a very convenient point, I'm sure. It is also good to see what measures are being taken by the Secretary of State. That may be the beginning of the reduction of the problems as they are at present. Only, it's not a structural solution. Mr Westerveld points out that one of the most important things that needs to be done is that these groups are getting smaller. At the same time, this institution has to do with the outflow of personnel. That is a vicious circle; it only increases the burden. Is the Secretary of State prepared to free up space in the budget and also indicate in the letter he has promised, in what way, with a financial injection, he thinks he can deal with human pressure? 'Cause that just takes money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Bishop will also know that the budget has now been tabled. Of course, we have the ambition, as expressed by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Bishop, to work towards smaller groups and to make the box more attractive, so that we get inflow at the front and keep the outflow as small as possible. This is, moreover, an area of concern, but certainly also of concern in the field of youth care. I will gladly continue the discussion with the Chamber in the legislative consultation on how to implement this concretely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u25	I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u26	I hear about pilots, there will be a debate, it has been discussed for a long time: I think it is all very well, but I wonder if this will solve the problem, as the inspection has already raised this a year ago. So I think it would be greatly appreciated if the Secretary of State would be willing to take a peek at Leeuwarden and the surrounding area to see how he can help there. My question is also very specific: how will Woodbrookers and other youth institutions who sit there be helped, for example, to put up cameras to record who gets there, what viper spawn comes there to recruit those boys? And to what extent are these guys gonna be helped to press charges? That is a very concrete proposal, rather than just debating it. Because it's been going on for a year. Time slips under our eyes, while this continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u27	I would suggest that nothing happened in that year. Mr Van Wijngaarden would not say that either. There is a great deal going on, for example training is given in identifying it. And Mrs Westerveld was right to point out that it is not just the men in the wrong cars who stand there. "Adder spawn" is a beautiful term, but that the most evil happens via online routes, and that we need to get the finger behind it. That's where they're gonna be loaded. Mr Van Wijngaarden also asks me to take a look and talk to the organisation about how to tackle this for good. I find it very complicated to arrange work visits from me here through this oral Question Time, but of course I am very curious to see how that goes. I don't know if it makes any sense for me to go there. I'm going to talk to the sector, maybe I'm going to look in that place, but I have the ambition to look in places in the Netherlands where youth assistance is provided. Mrs Westerveld also asked: is it only happening there, or is it happening in more places? At VWS there is clearly the image that it happens in more places. That won't just be limited to Friesland. I think the problem is broader. Mr Van Wijngaarden can be sure that I look very seriously at that. I will look at that location or at other locations and I will see how we can offer concrete handles to counter this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u28	A second supplementary question, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u29	I had also asked if the Secretary of State would be willing to see if it would help, for example, to put up cameras there. In the Leeuwarder Courant I read that people are just picked up and dropped off there. You want to get those guys who abuse and drug these guys literally and figuratively in the picture. So that might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u30	My primary reaction is that this is a very logical and meaningful thought, but I would like to come back to that because I do not know what legal obstacles there are. If those cameras are aimed at public space, I think you have a problem using the footage of it. But it is a logical question and I think that type of question lives throughout the Netherlands, so I'd like to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. That's how we came... No, wait a minute. There's one more question from the PvdA. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u32	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I did raise my finger, but apparently not assertive enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u33	I don't know you like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u34	I thought, "I'm gonna do something different than usual for once." You get advice sometimes to go another way. I would like to ask a supplementary question, because, like Mrs Westerveld and Mr Van Wijngaarden, I am concerned that it is still going to be fine words. After all, we know that there is a shortage of well-educated people to help these young people. We also know that groups are too large and that boys and girls often have a complex background, making them particularly vulnerable. My question is: when will we know if we have actually achieved results? Otherwise, we will be back with the same results in a year's time. So my question is not just to look at this, but also at the question: when do we feel that we have made progress, and are we therefore reckonable? Because that doesn't really happen in childhood care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u35	Specifically about these miserable practices, CoMensha will issue a mid-term report in November. It states how the flag hangs when it comes to victims of trafficking in human beings. The report Together against trafficking in human beings will be published in November. The room gets it, too. I'd like to discuss that with JenV's colleague. I've just had this wallet for a few days, so I think you're asking me when I'm getting results right now. I would like to follow up on that discussion during the legislative consultation, but I am being over-asked at the moment if I have to promise that I will have results in January or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u36	To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you. This brings us to the end of Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
