ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next question is from Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD and concerns the circumcision of girls in the country of origin. I call Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's almost summer break. Despite corona, that is a time to enjoy the beautiful weather, to meet with friends, to be free. But that does not apply to dozens of girls who threaten to be taken to a country like Somalia, to be circumcised there with an unsterilized blade or scissors. Their clitoris or even the entire vagina will be removed. Why? Because it's tradition. Almost 41,000 circumcised women live in the Netherlands and 4,200 girls at risk. In the city of The Hague alone, 50 circumcised girls are added every year. Their parents have the stupid idea that their daughter would only have a future without clitoris. Women who are circumcised often find it difficult to urinate, with their menstruation and with sex, not to mention the great spiritual damage. Mr. Chairman. Clearly, this has to stop. Last year the VVD submitted an initiative paper against cultural oppression and also female circumcision. We want to prevent girls from being taken into account by means of checks on flights at risk at Schiphol Airport, with information on what to do in the event of signals from female circumcision. I read that the cabinet wants to do that. That's great, but how soon has this been arranged? Can the Minister promise: before the summer? We also want those responsible to be dealt with harder. But it is difficult to punish, because that would only be possible with a Dutch nationality or with a permanent place of residence here. So when the circumcision happens on vacation, it's hard. That is why I have proposed that the accomplices should be punished more severely, not only those who circumcise but also the family who encourage and watch from the culture. Can the Minister arrange this? And does the Minister want to do more against imams and mosques that recommend female circumcision? The brave Femmes for Freedom forced a task force for a mosque teacher last week. But this teacher is appealing. And the mosque now says very nicely that the recommendation to circumcision of women is subject to religious freedom. Where's the government? Can the Minister appeal to municipalities to maintain them? Can he talk to the Islamic community to distance himself from female circumcision? Can these imams get a restraining order? I have also asked questions about this with the SP, and I hope I can get a response to that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, Mrs Becker. In the Netherlands, you're the boss of your own body. Female genital mutilation is a degrading cultural practice. It is quite right that Mrs Becker has drawn attention to this in her own initiative paper. In fact, there is also an amendment that provides for a sum to be available next year to support policies that prevent this. The right to self-determination is enshrined in our laws and regulations and in our Dutch culture, and must be guaranteed at all times. Mrs Becker and I agree on that. This requires constant attention and defence. That is why we have taken measures, both in the past and recently, such as the use of key players to reduce this harmful practice. Especially because of the major health risks and the psychological damage that female genital mutilation can cause, it is punishable in the Netherlands. And rightly so. In this area, cooperation is carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs. From my ministry, the Social Stability Expertise Unit works together with the various communities to strengthen resilience and resilience within communities, also against this kind of harmful traditional practices. In the general newspaper article that Mrs Becker refers to, the figures are not correct. There is talk of 50 in the region of The Hague, but in the most recent insight from 2005 it concerns 50 girls throughout the Netherlands. Apart from that, every girl is too much. But also this research has now become obsolete due to Pharos' prevalence study, which was published in June last year. It states that 4,200 girls will be at risk of being circumcised for the next 20 years. In the Netherlands it is really criminal and prohibited, but that risk becomes real when they visit the country of origin. That is why we also pay a lot of attention to Schiphol and to the fact that people visit their homeland. Additional measures are being taken. On 18 February this year, the Action Agenda Harmful Practices was presented to the Chamber. This Agenda for Action also includes measures contributing to the prevention of female genital mutilation. The Ministry of VWS, by Mr De Jonge, is the coordinating department. But again, there is cooperation with JenV, SZW and the VNG on the programme Violence does not belong anywhere. Then there is Mrs Becker's specific question about the example at Schiphol. Unfortunately, the implementation of the Agenda for Action has been delayed by corona, but efforts are now being made by all parties to keep up. Unfortunately, that is not ready for the summer. I wish I could promise that, but I can't live up to that. But that doesn't mean nothing's gonna happen. We are working hard on the roll-out of the measures announced in the letter of 18 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mrs. Becker. Or weren't you finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mrs. Becker asked more questions about punishing offenders. I would also like to take a look at my colleague who is here. Friday there was indeed a court ruling on the example of the As-Soennah mosque in The Hague. I also find it unfortunate that an appeal has been made for freedom of religion. It is still a damaging practice which we must all condemn and which we must combat in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thanks to the Minister. I do not doubt his intentions, but at the same time it remains very difficult to see progress on this dossier. The Minister refers to many different ministries dealing with it and to measures that would have already been taken, but the fact is that last Saturday there was also a newspaper reading that nurses are very concerned about the lack of preventive policy and that people are very concerned about what is still happening in Dutch mosques. That is precisely why I addressed this Minister of Integration, because I want a minister to take charge of this. I hear the Minister passionately talking about pensions, but I would like him to be as passionate when it comes to defending the freedoms in the Netherlands and deciding about your own body. So let's be specific: if we can't check for flights at risk this summer, what are we going to do? Can we then, for example, in the Netherlands, ensure that we do not allow female circumcision to take place here, now that people can also be more difficult to leave because of corona? For example, there appears to be poor cooperation between aid agencies. Experts say that it should be reported much more quickly from education and aid that there is a suspicion of circumcision. Then a girl can be placed under surveillance and then the parents can be reported. That's not happening right now. That is the chain approach, and the minister must appeal to municipalities. Is he actually gonna do that? I also hope for a firmer answer on enforcement towards mosques and imams. If the Minister cannot answer that today, I hope to get that answer in writing. Here it is also important that we do not say: yes, that is freedom of religion. No, this is mutilation and this has to stop. Finally, while I have a little time left. There would also be an end to hymen repair in the Netherlands; also genital mutilation. However, Minister Hugo de Jonge has now delayed this, also because of corona, to 1 September. Can the Minister promise that there will really be a directive on 1 September to stop hymen repair and, if not, that the cabinet will then come up with a legal ban? If he doesn't want to do that, I'm considering proposing such a ban myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	To begin with, I just honestly don't know. I can check that out for you and ask Minister De Jonge if he informs your Chamber. I fully understand Mrs Becker's frustration at this point, but several departments are responsible for this. This always means coordination and different perspectives. Sometimes those angles collide. Above all, the whole cabinet finds this practice shameful. This one's criminal for a reason. It is not for nothing that we have all signed the Agenda for Action, Mr De Jonge and Mr Grapperhaus and myself, because we want to put an end to these practices. There's a lot going on in the meantime. Let me give two examples. The first is that the Minister of VWS supports the Federation of Somali Associations in the Netherlands in a nationwide establishment of key persons. Why? It is so incredibly important to get the information from the group itself and to have the information to be able to intervene. If you don't have the information, you're indeed chasing the facts, it's already done and you're too late. That's one. The second is that all children from 0 to 19 years of age are seen by youth health care. It is also part of the basic tasks of youth health care to make such a risk assessment and, if necessary, follow-up steps in girls with parents from a so-called "prevalence country', a number of risk countries for female genital mutilation are at risk. So there are concrete steps, but they are indeed scattered across different departments. It is partly health care, it is partly the criminal justice chain and Justice and Security and it is partly prevention and enabling the municipality to intervene if there are such signals. The latter is to my department. We do work together a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	I've got 30 seconds, I see. I understand what the Minister is saying, but this is the hard part. So municipalities also deal with four or five ministries. That is why I have tabled an action plan for self-determination, on which I would like to see a minister in charge, namely the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mrs. Becker?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	Those 30 seconds were not meant for you, but for a supplementary question. But finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	In one sentence, I'm gonna try to finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	That's good. It was a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	Would the Minister make a specific appeal to municipalities on their task of really getting the chain approach right and is he prepared to sit down with the Islamic community so that this is really distanced from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	Three answers. The first is that we have not created the Task Force Problematic Behavior for nothing. The purpose of this is precisely to cooperate better within those departments and to share signals of this kind more quickly. I share Mrs Becker's point. That is where we are now trying to give hands and feet through the task force. The second point is that Mr De Jonge manages the Agenda for Action from the VWS Ministry. Well, we do work well together in that. I'm gonna think about the third. I'm gonna let you know in writing how we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mrs Becker. Then I'll go to Mrs. Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u18	Female genital mutilation, girl circumcision, is disgusting. This is always the case here in the House of Representatives. But if I move on behalf of my party if when it comes to tip money, when it comes to increasing the penalty, when it comes to expelling the perpetrators after serving their sentence, then it is always "dissuade" and the VVD always votes against. So my question to the Minister is: when does it stop with empty words? It happens not only on holiday abroad, but also here in The Hague. Girls are placed on the kitchen table and are circumcised in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u19	As I said, it is a very damaging practice. The cabinet is very far away from that. It's not for nothing that it's a criminal offence in the Netherlands. I'm gonna go take it for Mrs. Becker. She submitted a very good own-initiative paper a few months ago, which drew attention to this... In response to what Mrs Agema says outside the microphone: I cannot judge what motions this is about. A few months ago, Mrs Becker presented an own-initiative paper on this subject, which gives concrete expression to it, including money, in order to address this issue. Mrs Becker deserves all the praise in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u20	No, Mrs. Agema, you have... A point of order. But everyone has the opportunity to ask two questions, and so has the PVV. Just a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Our plan of attack, with fifteen points, was simply voted against by the VVD. I think it's so neat to include that in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u22	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr President, I cannot judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u24	Then that's what you said. I am going to Mrs Özütok, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u25	Genital mutilation in girls is horrible. It mutilates these girls for the rest of their lives. GroenLinks believes that we need to focus much more on prevention and awareness in the communities. But that doesn't seem to be enough to prevent mutilation abroad. For example, in England and Wales there are special laws to protect the victims if there is reason to think that the child is travelling to a country where it will be circumcised. The judge can then, for example, take a passport of the child and the parents, to prevent girls from being taken to countries where they are circumcised. Is the Cabinet prepared to see what it can learn from this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u26	Didn't you say the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u28	That's also part of the approach, right? We are indeed looking at this in the roll-out of the Agenda for Action which we sent to your Chamber in the letter of 18 February. So the UK approach serves as an inspiration for us to see what we can learn from it and what we could take over. But don't ask me about the details, because that's just again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u29	Don't say that, or else... Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-3.u30	Please.
