ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr J.A.M. Reines. I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Jan Reijnen, who died on 7 April last at the age of 93. He was a member of the First Chamber of the States-General for the KVP for more than five years, from 16 May 1972 until 20 September 1977. Johannes Andreas Maria Reijnen was born on 3 February 1927 in Kaatsheuvel, where he also attended Roman Catholic primary school. At the Dr. Mollercollege in Waalwijk, Jan Reijnen passed his Hbs-a degree 75 years ago. He then obtained his candidate exam in political and social sciences at the Catholic University of Nijmegen. In the early fifties of the last century, he attended the municipal administration and finance programmes. These were connected to his work as a volontary to the municipal secretariat of Loon op Zand. He continued to work as an official in Loon op Zand, including the sections of the population, civil status, finance, education and human resources. With experience in all facets of the municipal board Jan Reijnen became mayor of Wervershoof in 1964, in 1969 of Oldenzaal and in 1976 of Heerlen. In 1986 he retired as mayor of Heerlen because he was appointed chairman of the Supervisory Board of the General Civil Pension Fund. Two years later, he became chairman of the same ABP. Jan Reijnen was active in the youth organisation of the KVP when he was 27 years old and became a member of the board. In the early 1960s he made the switch to the "bigger brother," the KVP itself. In 1964 he was a member of the party board, was a member of the Committee on Information to Local Council Members and a member of the International Committee. Reijnen has also been a member of the party council within the KVP, chairman of the Den Helder Chamber Circle and vice-president of the Noord-Holland Chamber Circle. In view of his background, it was natural that Jan Reijnen became spokesperson for Home Affairs and Housing at his First Parliamentary Membership in 1972. At that time, the police were still under the Ministry of the Interior and in his maiden speech on 18 June 1974 he expressed his concern about "the problems that can arise in cooperation, in finding and understanding two very different police organisations: the state police and the municipal police." Reijnen concluded his speech as it befits a good citizen's father at the time of Oldenzaal, with binding words to the rulers, but above all with appreciation for the police. I quote: 'It must not be unspoken that I also implicitly pay tribute to all police officers in the exercise of their difficult, demanding and often life-threatening tasks'. In addition to his social and political career, Jan Reijnen was particularly active as a director in many different areas. To name a few: Chairman of hockey club D.E.S. in Kaatsheuvel, board member Koninklijk Muziekverschap Euphonia, board member Stichting Katholiek Voortzet Onderwijs in West-Friesland and member of the central board of the European Movement Netherlands. Jan Reijnen was known as an ambitious director with a more intelligent attitude, and with a great heart for European cooperation. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-12-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you.
