ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the report (Doc. The VSO has been requested by Mrs Postma of the CDA and may also speak first on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and two questions. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to do a pilot to help diabetes patients with the inspection. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many people who have diabetes have to do double inspections in their opinion;]] [[Whereas a pilot has been undertaken to use eye measurements that patients with diabetes should carry out as regular controls for the inspection of the CBR;]] [[Whereas the CBR is an organisation that comes from afar and does not yet have sufficient focus on the applicant for a driving licence;]] [[calls on the Government to organise the pilot in such a way as to reflect on the driver's licence applicant, to involve the Diabetes Vending in the design and to inform the Chamber for the AO CBR about the design of the pilot,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Postma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-852]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u3	My first question is about autism. Every year there are 5,000 to 7,000 people with autism who undergo medical examinations for the renewal of the driving licence. However, the why is not clear for the CDA. Where is the scientific basis for this? According to the Dutch Association for Autism, autism does not pose an additional risk in traffic. If so, people with autism would easily pass the medical examination and, if in doubt, pass the additional driving test of the CBR. For this reason, the CDA would like an insight into the figures. How many people have had to do a medical examination in 2018, 2019 and 2020 because of autism? How many of these people didn't pass the physical. How many of these people had to do an extra driving test and then didn't pass the test? Is the Minister prepared to amend the advice for this group if it turns out that many problems are due to that inspection and testing? My last question. The CDA is getting signals that there are also long queues in theory exams. Someone wanted to apply for a theory exam for his daughter and it turned out to be her turn around in April 2021. Are there any more of these signals? Is it true that there are delays in theory exams because they are bought in massively by large theory companies? If so, what will the Minister do to reduce queues? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you very much. Exactly within the speaking time. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. I wouldn't have done that at the beginning. The next speaker was Ms Van Brenn, on behalf of 50PLUS. The motion needs to be issued, Mrs. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion, but I still have a lot of questions. The Minister indicated that Member States could apply for an extension of the European regulation which provides that people with a driving licence which expired between 1 February and 1 September may continue to drive for seven months. Such a request could be made until 1 August. Is that what happened? And what's the sequel? We can also imagine that this regulation will provide temporary relief. For the duration of this exercise, it is a wonderful solution for the licence holders concerned to be able to continue driving at home and abroad, or at least in the EU. But how does this contribute to the long-term solution? Is there not another reservoir waiting for us at the end of the regulation? And what influence has the corona crisis had on the progress of the catching-up process at the CBR? How does the recruitment of new medical examiners go? How is it that the total number of driving licences expired is still so far above forecast? And to what extent is the final objective, namely to eliminate all backlogs by summer 2021 at the latest, still feasible? Mr. Chairman. The meeting was quite a while ago. You can imagine that we are curious about the answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). He speaks on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Imagine, you're 18 years old, you've finished your driving lessons and you're ready for your driving exam, and then it turns out you still have to have a medical exam and take an extra driving test because, yeah, you have some kind of autism. All your life, every time you renew your driver's license, you have to have it re-examined. Every year, 7,000 people who have ever been diagnosed with ASS have to jump through this hoop. That can't be true, can it? And why? Last Sunday I heard during the radio broadcast of Reporter on NPO1 that there is no scientific evidence at all that ASS leads to reduced driving power. The last opinion of the Health Council on this issue is based on an old investigation and dates back to 2013. In our neighbouring countries too, autism does not require inspections for a driving licence. This has to be different as far as D66 is concerned. Of course road safety is paramount, but anyone who wants it and who can do it safely must be able to drive a car without the stigma of ASS. I therefore want the opinion of the Health Council to be reviewed. And if it shows that there is insufficient scientific evidence that ASS leads to an increased risk in traffic, I want the Minister to adapt the regulation to that as soon as possible. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with a diagnosis of autism in the Netherlands should be periodically tested to test their driving skills;]] [[whereas the research on which the Health Council based itself at the time is dated (2013) and is at least unclear as to whether there is a link between autism spectrum disorders (ASS) and impaired driving ability;]] [[calls on the Government to send the Health Council a further opinion on the driving skills of people with ASS and to communicate its findings to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schonis and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-853]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. The next speaker will be Mr Van Aalst. He speaks on behalf of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the recess, the problems at the CBR did not go on vacation. Our mailbox continued to flood again with complaints and crying outs. It shows that solving these problems has still not been successful. The PVV does wonder whether these problems will be resolved soon or not. There seems to be something structuralally wrong with the CBR. That's not just because of the current corona crisis. The PVV therefore also asks whether the current form of government, a ZBO, is the right one. How does the minister get control again? To answer that, the PVV submits the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the problems of the CBR have still not been resolved and lead to huge waiting times and obstacles;]] [[considers that the Minister does not have sufficient control over the CBR;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the current form of government for the CBR is the right one,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29398-854]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you. Finally, Mr Dijkstra, on behalf of the VVD, has the floor. Mr Laçin has given up speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u13	Mr. Chairman. It's been a while since we talked about the CBR. We're gonna talk about the CBR again at the end of the month, so we're here regularly. Also for corona the problems at the CBR were of course considerable, but Corona added a little bit to that. We have previously arranged for an extension for the 75-plussers and also for the European code 95 for lorry drivers and for people with expired driving licences. That's all very well, but covid does cause 300,000 delays in exams, whether that's practice or theory; all kinds. As a VVD, we want that delay overtaken as soon as possible. What's going on with that right now? If the figures come at the end of the month, I'm okay with that. But we want it to be overtaken, as soon as possible, of course. Indeed, it takes a very long time if you want something at the CBR. You're also really dependent on the CBR. We have looked into the way in which the whole process has been dealt with at the moment, including with the medical examinations. I know that there will be a study by the Foundation for the Scientific Research on Road Safety into the role of the general practitioner. I know that in the past, general practitioners certainly didn't want that because of work pressure and above all objectivity towards your client. But I'm still wondering... You'll see it when you're abroad. The GP has a bigger role there and can judge people. Maybe that could lighten up. I don't want to know if that's the answer yet, but I'd like to give you that suggestion. I hope we will hear from SWOV about this too. So this is a suggestion that the Minister can come back to us later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you. One more question to you, Mr Dijkstra: an interruption by Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u15	I put the question to the Minister via Mr Dijkstra. We were to receive a system change from the medical examination. At the end of this month we have the CBR debate. I would like to ask Mr Dijkstra whether he agrees with me that the Minister should send this to us for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u16	There's information coming our way. It is always nice if that is timely for the next debate. We are here regularly to talk about the CBR, so we keep working on this, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. She needs to think. I'm suspending until 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u18	The next item is the continuation of the VSO CBR and medical examinations on driving fitness. The Minister has the floor to answer the questions and give an opinion on the three motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Often it is the other way around with a whole row of motions and a few questions, but this time I start with a rather extensive list of questions and I close with three motions. Mrs Postma asked questions about the justification of the inspections for people with autism spectrum disorder. Mr Schonis asked for this later in the debate. In 2013, the Health Council recommended keeping the inspection for this category that first applies for a driving licence, as they see risks to road safety there. We've been talking about our ZBOs recently. The Health Council is one of them. Of course, I rely on the expertise of our institutions. The opinion is, of course, based on their own research and expert opinion, as I say in reply to Mrs Postma's question. Mrs Postma has also asked a number of more specific questions on this subject. What are the numbers? How many people are we talking about? How many people have to go through the inspection again? How many people can't have their license? I suggest we take a very specific look at that. I can't shake that out of the loose wrist right now and I'm sure it's all right. Your Chamber has already reported that we are having a consultation on the CBR at the end of this month. I am happy to acknowledge that I will forward this information to your Chamber prior to this consultation. You will therefore have this information available for that debate. I want to be absolutely sure, because you also asked about 2018, 2019 and 2020. We need to make sure that we also provide you with the right information. I shall then take up the questions put by Mr Schonis on this subject. Oh, no, that's in a motion. It'll come later. Then Ms. Postma would have asked how long it would take for you to plan theory exams. The CBR has informed us that the average booking time for theoretical examinations is 12.6 weeks, with a minimum booking time of ten weeks and a maximum reservation time of fifteen weeks. I'm just talking about the bulk of the B exams. That's the information the CBR gave me. They indicate that they do not recognize your example in which it would be much longer. So I have no choice but to share that information with you. The CBR also indicates that it will do everything it can to catch up as quickly as possible, but the impact of the corona crisis is considerable. It's been remembered by your room, too. It stopped for nine weeks. Of course, that's quite a term. It's complicated to catch up. Both theoretical and practical examinations are conducted by the CBR with more than 100% of the occupation. In theory exams, that's 150% at the moment. So they're really doing their utmost to catch up. Of course, it is always difficult to predict exactly how fast you enter it, because you also don't know how many new exams will be added in the meantime. The demand from the market therefore also plays a role in this. But I think it is useful to keep the finger on the wrist in the run-up to the next AO and to give you an insight into the direction that that goes. Mrs Postma had asked the question whether it could also have to do with the large-scale purchase of examinations. That was indeed the case in the past. The CBR has indicated that it has taken measures to prevent such buying-in. For the theory exams A, B, and AM, since August 2019 only a reservation is possible in the name of the candidate. That reservation can no longer be converted to another candidate. A driving school can no longer just say: take twenty theoretical exams on that day or that day. It must really be linked to a candidate. The examination products for the vocational training courses are the only category in which public capacity is still purchased. This is continuously monitored by the CBR. They actually have no reason to believe that this is being abused.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u20	An interruption by Mrs. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you for the answers. I still think the queue's long. I also wonder whether it is different in different regions, because there is a fairly large variation between them. If these figures are sent, is it possible to see which region needs more attention and in which region it is doing well? Because it's often nice for people to be able to take a theory exam in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u22	That's right. I will see how detailed we can make that information available to you before the AA. It is possible, if you wish and are in a hurry, to go to another region and take the theory exam there if there is room earlier. It's okay. But I'll see how detailed we can send that information to your room. Mrs Van Brenn asked questions about the extension of the regulation. She asked whether the proposal had been submitted in Europe. That has indeed been done and the requested has been granted. So that AMvB is now in operation. Is this going to lead to a reservoir for people covered by the 75-plus scheme? That was a question from her, too. No, fortunately the CBR indicates that the number of people covered by the AMvB 75-plus is rapidly decreasing. At the end of March, 119,000 people were still covered by this scheme. At the end of August, that number had fallen to 74.000. The CBR is committed to ensuring that those stocks have been disposed of before those arrangements have ended. Fortunately there is a decreasing trend. Also a question from Mrs Van Brenk: what is the situation with regard to the recruitment of medical examiners? You are not, of course, referring to the medical examiners who carry out the examinations in the medical sector. I assume you're referring to the medical advisors at the CBR itself. So these are not the medical examiners who do the first examination in humans. The CBR has done a good job recruiting those medical advisors. They will therefore be able to process the reports of the external examiners and then, on the basis of their expertise in the field of fitness for driving, they will be able to reach a decision. The CBR has informed me that the recruitment of those medical advisors is even above the September 2019 forecast and that there is currently sufficient medical capacity to decide on the medical fitness to drive. We still have a lot of problems, also because of corona, because people could not be judged because a lot of things outside of corona to lie still. Contact professions and so on; you know it all. What exactly is the state of play and progress, I will also report to you in the next report. Mrs Van Brenk asks what influence Corona has had on that recovery. The production process of the driving fitness division could simply continue despite the intelligent lockdown. During the period from March to May of this year, the external examiners and medical specialists did not do so, because, of course, there was a lot of silence there. That's what I just gave you. The delay with these external examiners and medical specialists has not yet been fully addressed; you can also see that this has to get going in many places. The number of expired driving licences has remained more or less the same for several months and has decreased slightly since June. For a large part of the files on expired driving licences, therefore, the CBR is now waiting for a report from an external examiner or medical specialist; there are now sufficient advisors of their own. The reservation period for driving tests has been increased as a result of COOVID-19. The impact on the number of expired driving licences is limited. The CBR still uses, among other things, the overtime and the training of additional examiners there we were just talking about taking back that reservation period. In fact, Mrs Van Brenk's main question was: is the final objective, namely to get things in order by 2020-2021, still feasible? Well, the CBR indicates that that's still feasible. Soon I will give you the intermediate position again. Mr Dijkstra asked whether all the theoretical and practical examinations delayed because of COVID-19 had been rescheduled. The CBR has informed me that almost all delayed exams scheduled for August have been rescheduled. But let me also clarify this in the letter that you can look forward to. Then Mr Dijkstra had a comment and a question about the general practitioners. How can general practitioners in other countries be allowed to take those tests? We take this point into account in the whole system review that your Chamber has requested and which SWOV is also investigating. So the role of the doctor, in whatever form in that fitness to drive, is taken into account in this study. So also the question of what can or cannot be expected from a general practitioner in that area. Mr. Chairman. I believe I have answered the questions with this. I don't see anyone running to the microphone, so I'm going to give you a response to the motions. The motion in part No. 852 calls on the government to set up the pilot on the measurements to be carried out on diabetic patients, to think from the driving licence applicant, to involve the diabetes association in the design and to inform the Chamber for the AO CBR, which we are always talking about, about the design of the pilot. With the emphasis on 'on design', because of course that pilot still has to be held, I can give this motion judgment Chamber. We have already scheduled a meeting with the diabetes association at the end of September to discuss the scheme. But I will inform you as soon as possible. Then I have the motion in part no. Mr Schonis and Mr Laçin. First of all, I would like to comment on the recital. It says: considering that the research on which the Health Council based itself at the time was dated from 2013 and is at least unclear as to whether there is a link between autism spectrum disorders and reduced driving ability. You're more or less judging it. You say that it is not clear at least. I do not want to step into the position of the Health Council, which is, of course, independent. Nevertheless, I would like to pass on your request to the Health Council. I will ask whether the Council is prepared to give its opinion again, so that I can share it with your Chamber. But you know how it is with independent advisory bodies. They can say: this is it, and we see no reason to do so. And whether it's the RIVM or any other institution, I can't push on that. But with that in mind, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. And then it is up to the Health Council whether or not to respond to your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u23	I've been on that broadcast, so it has really become clear to me that there are at least questions to be asked. I'm glad to hear the Minister wants to ask the Health Council for some sort of second opinion. My question is: when do you think you can get that second opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u24	So I wouldn't call it a second opinion. It's an independent institution, and to ask them to give a second opinion on their own research, I think it's a little crazy. But I would like to convey the message as it stands to them. I want to say: well, it's from 2013; is there any reason to review that research, given all the questions that exist in society about it? But it's kind of crazy to ask the same agency for a second opinion on their own research. I'd rather talk about an update or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u25	Give the animal a name! But my question was specific: when can we look forward to this research? Could you put a little rush on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u26	I'll transfer your request to the Health Council. You also regularly say that ministers and the cabinet should not put pressure on such institutions. I will pass on the request and they will respond independently and independently. I will send it to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u27	On the same point, Mrs Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u28	I think the signal from this Chamber that we have some urgency is clear. It took a long time for the Health Council to respond to our previous request. We were months away and we had one A4't that there was nothing possible. I understand that Mr Schonis is asking for a somewhat harder deadline. I would like to point out, and I think the rest of the Chamber too, that we think this is very important and that we want to send this signal firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u29	I am going to do my best to convey it as firmly as Members Postma and Schonis do to the Health Council. But of course it is up to them how they react. I'm going to do my best to convey it intrusively. Then I come to the motion on part No. 854 by Mr Van Aalst. The motion concerns the ZBO form of the CBR and asks the government to examine whether the current form of government, i.e. a ZBO, is the right one. I would ask Mr Van Aalst to hold the motion because it is precisely from the Chamber that a wide-ranging investigation is being carried out into all the Zbo's and how improvements can be made there, especially in terms of performance. The CBR is one of the ZBOs being investigated. I would like to await the inquiry of the Chamber and then see if your motion is still topical or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u30	I'm not the worst. I'd be happy to hold the motion. On the other hand, I find it a little strange that a govern ment person is hiding behind an investigation by the Chamber. That's an independent investigation, isn't it? But I'd like to await the investigation and hold the motion. In the end, it's about solving the problems at the CBR.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u31	I am very pleased that Mr Van Aalst is reacting this way. It would be a little crazy if the cabinet were to look at how to improve the implementation of all kinds of Zbo's and the Chamber would also conduct an investigation, in advance of saying that we will stop with this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u32	At the request of Mr Van Aalst, I propose his motion (29398, No. 854). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u33	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you very much for your reply and the judgment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-10-tweedekamer-8.u35	We are not going to vote on the motions until 22 September 2020, because we will have Princess Day and General Reviews next week. The next debate you will have on this subject will be a general discussion on 30 September 2020. You'll be able to cross swords with each other again.
