ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u1	Let us now move on to the debate on the European Green Deal. We had arrived at the answers of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr President, thank you. I want to say something about the Green Deal in general. Several questions have been asked about the percentages in the Climate Act. Questions have been asked about the finances, both about the finances that leave us and the finances that come in. Questions have been asked about the various ministries in various policy areas. At the end I come to biomass and finally to nuclear energy. Then there are some questions about which I could not get into a category. Before that, I should like to close the various spokesperson's questions. We were here a while ago. Then the supporters of the Climate Agreement and the opponents of the Climate Agreement signed off. My point is that anyone who makes a logical argument must see that those in favour of the Climate Agreement, who are concerned with global warming, must, in principle, be in favour of this, because there are more countries that are helping to combat global warming. At the same time, of course, the opponents of the Climate Agreement, who were mostly concerned about a level playing field, must also be in favour, because that playing field is now becoming equal. So you can't really be against this. At the beginning of the discussion of the Climate Agreement, we often had this point on the table. They said: yes, but the Netherlands is doing everything in its power to ensure that the rest of Europe goes along. That was often in response to the different concerns that lived there. And see, now it's time. When I analyse the Green Deal, I come to the conclusion that it is irrevocable that Mr Timmermans has had one central advisor besides him. And that is, of course, Mr Kops, because Mr Kops has said several times that the playing field is uneven and that something has to be done about it in Europe, that the Netherlands is making a very small contribution and that other countries have to do something and that the Netherlands should not be the best boy in the classroom. So I am pleased that Mr Timmermans has listened very carefully to Mr Kops, and that is what we all do in this Chamber. And so again. So in that sense, I think we should accept the general principle. That does not mean that we can agree with each part. Mrs Beckerman, for example, asked questions. She asked whether the Netherlands would not give power to Europe and whether the EU would not draw too much power towards it. Let us note that one thing we wanted everyone here in this Chamber was that other countries would also be bound to something that we find to be a good cause and which we cannot do on our own. We have therefore welcomed the fact that there is some influence at European level. At the same time, we have a story where national sub-targets no longer exist before 2030. This direction is only available at European level, but no longer at Member State level. The Netherlands has always argued in favour of this. This was always the Dutch position. We also recognise that there will be a goal, but countries are about their own policies. So no one tells us what to do. No one is saying that we must do this, or that we must not have nuclear power, or that we must have nuclear power. No one's saying that. So those are things that I think we can live with. The delegated acts, Mrs Mulder is also asking for them, we do not think they are beautiful. We are not prepared to do that, and we share that with many other European countries. So in that sense, I do not think that this should be our main concern on this proposal. Mrs Mulder asks: yes, but what is the contribution, and what does that mean for the Netherlands? I assume that she also means the tonnes, and that is still complicated. Firstly, of course, we do not know whether countries will reach 50% or 55% or 53%. We still don't know how that is going to work out. Because it makes a big difference whether we do it in the non-ETS domain or in the ETS domain, whether we do it through source policy, or through pricing at European level. So there are two answers to that. Of course, we have to wait and see how it crystallizes. Every year the Planning Office for the Environment calculates this knowledge and determines in our KEV what this means and what extra we should do. ETS could solve a lot, but I will come back to that later. But there is also an independent study group led by Laura van Geest, who is going to think about the implementation of that climate assessment of that Green Deal piece in the Netherlands. That will give us more clarity about what it means to us. But I can say that it helps us on all kinds of fronts. The debate on a CO levy would certainly have been less heated if we had already had this. In fact, the question is whether we are going to suffer from a national CO levy at all, because maybe ETS is going to do it all. But that's very important. So we have to keep a close eye on that. I would also like to agree with Mrs Mulder. Then 55%. Mr Sienot asked for this, as did Mr Van der Lee. What do we do for that? Well, look, we've been pursuing this since the beginning of this cabinet period. The Netherlands has taken the initiative with a special group of countries to discuss this regularly. That was again this week and that group is getting bigger and bigger. Because originally there were only a few countries: Luxembourg, Sweden and the Netherlands. That's it. We had it pretty cozy together, but it wasn't a big group. In the meantime Finland, Denmark, Spain, Portugal, Latvia and France have joined, and more countries seem to follow. There are also other countries which, although not yet joining the group, are no longer opposed: Germany, Italy. I've had all these conversations with them, too. So it's starting to thicken; there's a growing coat for it. But that remains a matter of concern. So also with the impact assessment in hand, we will need to convince more countries. We're also gonna have to bet things like that Just Transition Fund. It is best to link up that we want to solve things that are inoperable in certain regions of Europe together. On the other hand, however, we can make a few demands on ambition. So, that way, that game is played. We are now in the final phase of the battle around the 2050 targets. We are still in the middle of the fight for the 2030 targets. This automatically means that I would like to suggest to Mr Sienot: first let's make the vertices and then we'll look at the 2040 target. Because that'll be less difficult. Let's not fight it three times, but let's click on the corners and then make a logical intermediate step, which by then also drips the logic off. Mr Sienot asked me about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u3	That's right, but you were working on the climate component.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u4	Yeah, should I finish that, the 55%?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u5	That is fine, then Mr Sienot will receive an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mrs Dik-Faber is actually asking a kind of meta-question: how are we going to prevent all kinds of countries from alienating us? She cites the pulse as an example. You could see that in this context. We are trying to do that by building bridges. We belong to the ambitious countries, but we should also be aware of those countries that will need a Just Transition Fund to make that battle. That's how we try to do it. At the same time, we do have a position, a view of the overall size of European resources. It is also known; we are not going to do that again in this Chamber. But I think that's combinable. Mr. Chairman. Then I came to the issue of the euro, but there seemed to be a desire to ask for something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Sienot...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u8	Before I go to the next block, I'd like to give the chairman a moment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yes. Mr Sienot and then Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u10	It sounds very reasonable what the Minister says: we do 2030 first; 2050 is so hard work. But for me that only says how much it is necessary to agree a path for 2030, 2040, 2050. That makes a lot more sense, because if you don't, you're gonna be all over the place in 2040. The point is that we get the train running now and determine the stations in advance. If you have to talk about the new station every time, you're not working on the solutions needed to get there. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u11	Then I invite Mr Sienot, who has this understandable concern, to think about it one more step further, and then more mathematically. Because if we were to philosophize on straight lines between the current goal and the future goal, that line would be lower than if we waited until 2030, if the ambition had perhaps been raised, because that line would be higher across the board. So, mathematically alone, I think it's convenient for us to first raise the vertices and then draw lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u12	I still have a question about how we can get other countries involved in that 55%. In a nutshell, the Minister says: we are not going to repeat the debate on finances. I would like to respond to him in so far as we are not going to settle that here today, but professors have looked at that budget. They say that most of the money is existing and that there is private money, perhaps 13% new money. Does the Minister recognise that if you set a target and know how to raise it to 55%, it will be particularly difficult for the disadvantaged regions to keep up with it? Does he recognise that it is likely, in logic, that you will have to move a little, either within the existing resources or within the additional resources to be agreed, to include those regions in them? Does he recognize that this could mean that the Just Transition Mechanism might even have to grow in volume?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u13	I'm not denying logic. The government's position on this is yet to come, but let us confine ourselves to the positions that already exist in this area. Of course, we believe that the percentage to be spent on climate targets under the MFF should be increased. At the same time, we have said that 100% of this expenditure cannot go against the Paris agreements. That is the kind of demand that the Netherlands makes, but indeed it is with maintaining our position on the size of the total resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Bishop. No, Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u15	Yeah, for a follow-up question. I understand that the Minister cannot explain the entire Dutch negotiating position here. There are a lot of routes to reach an agreement. For example, you mentioned mainstreaming: 25% of the budget should be spent on behalf of climate policy. You could raise that, too. That, too, may offer room to fit in with that greater ambition; let me give you just one example. Are those kind of options all in the picture? Or is there a preferred option and, if so, can we hear it today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u16	Even if all options are in view... No, actually only if all the options are in view, you can justly speak of a preferred option. The preferred option is 25%. Why? Because it allows us to move together with other countries that are on our side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u17	I did not hear the term'subsidiarity' in the statement of the Minister's heads. I did just hear the Minister respond to a comment made by Mr Agnes Mulder on the delegated tasks. The Minister says we're against that. First of all, as far as the Minister is concerned, is that the issue of subsidiarity removed or is he going to come back to it in greater detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u18	No, unfortunately I had not come back to that on my own. So perhaps Mr Bishop should repeat his question or his concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes, because that is a very slim way, a bit in line with the way in which the BNC sheet removes this issue of subsidiarity. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to a motion adopted by this Chamber last December, which was broadly supported, and to the reaction of the cabinet by letter of 16 December. I read a phrase: 'This general first appreciation is without prejudice to the fact that the cabinet will thoroughly assess the Commission's proposals, including on the basis of subsidiarity and proportionality'. So that's what I'd like to have. I would like the Minister's undertaking that the Chamber will be able to look forward to that thorough assessment on the basis of subsidiarity and proportionality, as far as I am concerned, before the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u20	The "chips" about that, as we say in the jargon, are still coming. I believe that most of that comes before the recess. In each sheet this is a fixed part. So these issues are always addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u21	I would like to point out that this is also the case in the fact sheet that we are talking about here, but it is done in one sentence. I want a systematic review of subsidiarity and proportionality. That's what the Chamber has been asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u22	That seems to me to be an orderly request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u23	The Minister admits that, I understand. When can we do that, structured and not shredded over all kinds of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u24	My estimate is that most of it could be ready for recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u25	So that's next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u27	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u28	I don't think all of them. It's a lot of subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u29	Okay. Then it's noted. Then I will go to Mr Van Raan and then Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u30	I'm also gonna try to make an orderly request. That might help. The Minister spoke of 50%, 55%. That's what he's committed to. He also said, "No one prescribes what to do." So we could do that ourselves now, as he said, in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u31	Yeah, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u32	Parties like ours are sometimes put away a bit like drammers. If it's never enough, we hear a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u33	I never say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr Timmermans also gave a nice example in the video conference call we had. "Emotional" he even called it, a new term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u35	Ah. Who called that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Timmermans. Let me turn it around. My question to Mr Wiebes is: does he think that 50% or 55% is enough when he looks at what science tells us? What's his opinion on that? Does he think it's enough for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u37	If you look only climatologically, it is best to be climate-neutral from tomorrow morning. But that is not feasible. Look, we're not writing fiction here. We have to do something that society can experience. I think 55% is extremely ambitious. That's gonna take a lot of us. It's also gonna take a lot of people at home. It's also gonna affect their job. It's going to affect our behavior. And we try to make sure that people still experience that the Netherlands is doing better. People want to have a nice life. All these things we try to combine. I think 55% is an ambitious path.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u38	That's his qualification. We already knew them, quite frankly, because the Minister very often repeats that this is an ambitious goal as far as he is concerned. That wasn't the question. The question is: does he agree with the knowledge that these goals really need to be set higher? If you translate that 55% into CO emissions, related to global warming, does he agree with the knowledge that that is not good enough, whether it is ambitious or not, or that there is support for it? Just a sec. I'm just gonna talk to the Minister's right-hand side of his mind. Do you think that's enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u39	It is not for me to agree with science or not, because then I should be a scientist. I see the different results of the science of the band rolling. I can't understand all these models scientifically. So I assume that, in the consensus of the IPCC, for example, comes out a sensible picture. That calls for haste, and that is why the Netherlands was a precursor in advocating the 55%. Ideally and theoretically, you might want to do that even faster, but we are dealing here with the real world, in which people have to be able to cope in a pleasant way. This is what came out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u40	Third question, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u41	Third question. Apparently, the Minister doesn't want to tell us what science is telling us. Is he prepared to write again in a letter what that 55% means in terms of the chance of being below, well below, certainly below 1,5oC and let us read it again on the basis of the IPCC reports? Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u42	I think that's a little unnecessary, because that means that I have an IPCC report... I am not standing here denying that science advocates firm measures. That's not the issue at all. I agree with all of Mr Van Raan. We read the same reports. He also finds the answer in those reports. Of course, it calls for greater haste. The world needs to do much more. Europe is one of the forerunners, but it can be a lot more impressive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u43	It is not a question of science calling for more haste, because we agree on that. In fact, I agree with Mr Wiebes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u44	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u45	It's the Minister. This is based on what science says: 55% is not enough to keep the temperature rise below 1.5oC. Is he okay with that or not? That's all I'm asking him, not if the basis is there, but simply: does he agree with that conclusion, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'm not doing science reviews. I read the same documents and I note whether I agree with them or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u47	And why does science do that, so I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr President, this is going to be a game. Mr Van Raan has read the same reports as I have. We do not differ, I do not think, on what science says, because that is what we both read. I am dealing here with policies that have yet to be accepted by the Dutch. I suspect that Mr Van Raan's supporters are more pliable than the average Dutchman, but I am not just dealing with Mr Van Raan's supporters. I respect that, but there are a lot of Dutch people who are also worried about the life they live.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yes, science is very divided. Anyway, I didn't want to ask a question about that. It was about subsidiarity. It is very little and very easy what the Minister wants to say about it. At the beginning of his reply, he said: the EU is only about the goals and it is then up to the Member States to implement them. That is very easy, because that is the European climate law that is coming. But there is also an entire Green Deal of about 30, 40 pages with all concrete proposals. 1 million loading posts should be added. Organic farming. A green European industrial plan. We have to recycle packaging. More renewable energy. Wind energy at sea. You name it all. These are all things that the Member States themselves have to deal with. So can the Minister explain again why the principle of subsidiarity is not at stake? I have just understood in the little debate with Mr Bishop that we are still getting information about this. But yes, we have the debate now, so I would like an answer to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u50	It is not Timmermans or the European Commission or anyone outside the Netherlands that decides what kind of wind we put at sea at sea, how much, where that comes from, its power and whether it comes ashore in the form of electricity or hydrogen. We'll do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u51	At the beginning of my speech, I also said that we, like the Netherlands, have a Climate Law and a Climate Agreement. We are deeply unhappy with that, but the fact is that there is now. Then the question is: why is the principle of subsidiarity not at stake? Because the Netherlands, which supposedly wants to be at the forefront of climate policy, proves that a country like the Netherlands itself is capable of shaping climate policy. So the question is: why is it that a Green Deal is needed and why is this principle of subsidiarity not at stake?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u52	If you do it all by yourself for each Member State, then the Netherlands will do something and some other countries will do something, but we have Mr Kopssen everywhere who rightly say that other countries do nothing. That's why you have to agree to it together, in which you fill out the policy as a country itself. That is the policy that Mr Kops advocated at the time. Timmermans listened very carefully to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u53	That's way too easy. We also have international climate agreements, such as the Paris climate agreement. We are deeply unhappy with it and we have to get out of it, but it is there. How many countries have joined? About 170. As a result, all these countries will have to develop national climate policies. The climate agreement is already there. We'll let it go, but it's already there. Then again the question: why is there a need for a Green Deal? Why? And how does that comply with the principle of subsidiarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u54	This is going to be a wonderful debate. I have had to listen to debate after debate that we are the best boy in the classroom, if not the best boy in the world in our intentions. But now the argument is being used in the opposite sense: everyone actually does everything, what do we need this for? I think we should move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u55	No, because I'm still not getting a serious answer. To be honest, we already have a Climate Agreement and a Climate Act. As far as we're concerned, we have to get rid of that, but at the moment there are. Then why hand over so much power back to that terrible EU, which is going to decide for us that we all have to go electric and that a million loading posts are going to have to come? What is the EU doing? That's what my question is about, and I just want an honest answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u56	Of all the measures we do, we decide how we do them when we do them. That's up to us. There's no power shifting. The principle of subsidiarity is respected, because it is precisely those things that we have to agree with each other to make sure that we do it together and that the Netherlands does not suffer damage as a result of its intended lead position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u58	I am going to the subject of 'everything with the euro'. Mr Moorlag suggests that there would be a major contradiction between climate ambitions and a view on the transfer of funds. I don't see that. I can see, however, that it is necessary for some countries, for example, to join forces with the Just Transition Fund and help difficult regions through it. I can see that. But the relationship with the total amount of resources seems less direct to me. Mrs. Beckerman is still asking where the money ends up. I think that's a bit of a rhetorical question. Of course, that money goes to anyone who can contribute to greening. Part of it goes to innovation, part goes to a Just Transition Fund, part goes to the European effort to make our energy-intensive industry more sustainable. That is not weird either, because unfortunately we need energy-intensive industries for all the products and services with which our homes are packed. So that's what we do, and of course there isn't one particular party where the money goes. Eventually, it all goes to ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u59	I see they want to interrupt, but I'll see if you've answered all the questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr Harbers asked for an appreciation of the budget of the Just Transition Fund, on which there was a proposal to broaden it. Even before the recess we hope to get there with a chip. Mr Harbers asked how the Netherlands is committed to raising money, for example for hydrogen research. We've already made a big hit there. We play far above our fair share in the collection of innovation money. We're very good at that. But there is also a special programme, part of Horizon 2020 for fuel cells. Part of that also goes to the Netherlands. We raised the money for the North, we were the first hydrogen region in Europe, and there are all kinds of funds for regional development and infrastructure funds. We're actively committed to that. We believe that, in the long term, this could happen within the framework of the JTF. So far we have had great success in this. I hope to continue. I also say to Mrs Dik-Faber in this context that, of course, we are working with the North Netherlands and with other regions in the Netherlands to plan for that energy transition. The Just Transition Fund would probably be a contender in the North. That's what they're looking at. That's what we do with the region. Other regions are, of course, also being considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u62	Yeah, I'm kind of through the euro sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u63	Okay, I'll go see Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u64	I asked the Minister a question he said was probably rhetorical. Of course, that was not the case. It is a genuine question: where does this money go? Professor Daniela Gabor warns: if you do it this way, chances are very high that the money will bypass the poor and go straight to the rich. How does the Minister guarantee that the money of the Just Transition Fund, for example, will actually reach the people most in need of it, for example those at risk of losing their jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u65	That goes both ways. Indeed, there is the Just Transition Mechanism, which ensures that regions that can't really get help on their own can get help. But the overarching strategy of Timmermans, as I read it, is obvious. We also formulated them in the Netherlands. I am not talking about Timmerman's policy, but I read in it that we are also trying to create jobs and economic activity within Europe. This means that the best way to combat poverty comes into effect, namely that everyone has a job. That's not a job in an economy of the past. That is not something that needs to be subsidised more and more, because it is actually getting out of grace, but something that is becoming more and more infamous and which is becoming increasingly global demand. That's the strategy and I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u66	I can go a long way with that, those green jobs. That is something that we too are strongly in favour of, but the danger is now that the Green Deal is funding some sort of uneconomic summit, which makes the risks public and the profits private. We see much more in creating many more public jobs, so that profits also benefit society. Because, of course, this doesn't guarantee anything at all. This is, of course, what the European Union and the European Commission have tried very often. Above all, you can see that the burden is very much on society's shoulders, while the chances of achieving goals are also getting smaller. Does the Minister agree with me? Are these public green jobs not very important?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u67	No, I don't think the analysis is right. So I don't agree with that either. It is not the case that by covering uneconomic peaks of industries that have to go through transition, we are increasing shareholders' profits. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are therefore committed to covering uneconomic peaks. We don't have any kind of reward in mind that makes shareholders richer. Furthermore, it is not at all the talk of this day that the transition, for example, will make huge profits for the energy-intensive industry. In fact, what the Netherlands has been worried about for two and a half years is whether we can keep that up. 'Cause if there's no return on that kind of activity around here, they're leaking out. They do not disappear, because Mrs Beckerman's closets and mine are also full of stuff that the energy-intensive industry has made. But then it disappears to a country where grey is produced and then the jobs are gone. I think that we should essentially agree with each other. As a result, shareholders are not supposed to be involved. The aim is to make it green instead of grey, because both the supporters of Mrs Beckerman's party and the supporters of my party would like to have a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u69	The various policy areas are also coming along. I've tried to make that a somewhat creative bundling, but I'll start with the main question, my favorite question. Well, my second favorite question; I also need a cliffhanger. How do we deal with the ETS? I think the ETS is one of the most successful systems we have in the Union. I do think the mechanism is too loose. I always have, but it's a great system. In particular, the Netherlands and I are committed to a truly functioning ETS system. That is the way to do this without too much pain, in the most cost-effective way, without having to subsidise countries, without having to take strong individual measures and without having to close or change factories with government pressure. This is the way to do it: pricing with all of us; not alone, but with all of us. That's how we do it. We also have a few tightenings outside ETS. Source policy is sensible, but ETS in particular is wise. Mrs Mulder and Mr Harbers asked about it. Mr Sienot also spoke about this. He asked whether we should remove rights from the market now. I think this will be a combination of both. We now have a system in which duties are withdrawn from the market with some delay, but as far as I am concerned, this is the Dutch commitment, we are moving towards a system in which surpluses are eliminated more quickly and the percentage by which the ceiling is lowered is actually adjusted to our 55%. That's how we want it. This is explicitly the main focus of climate policy in Europe. I see a false move with Mr Sienot. Do you want me to finish this block first? There are a lot of policy areas in it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes. Mr. Sienot, I'll give you the floor after the minister's done with the cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u71	I agree with what Mr Moorlag said about solar panels. Honestly, this was my stick horse in high school. Solar panels belong in Africa. They're the only way to make the Sahara rich. Mr Moorlag is now bringing this up. Yeah, we should. One of the ways to get hydrogen to Europe is through the port of Rotterdam. Rotterdam will become an energy port again. At the moment I am talking to Portugal about imports of hydrogen, but all kinds of other regions can be added. The port is also actively working on this. All these relationships need to be established there. The world of the future is one in which we produce a large part of our energy here, and we also pay attention to cost-effective imports. The Netherlands is an exceptionally good country for that. That has also been noticed by our eastern neighbours. They want to work very actively with us in the field of hydrogen, not only its development, but also its application and transport. Then there's a question on the premises of BZK. Mr Van Haga suggested that monuments could not be preserved. That's not true. There are more demands, but there are all kinds of solutions to make monuments sustainable in all kinds of ways. Many questions have been asked about the different modalities in the field of IenW. I think Mr Van der Lee came up with the strongest term, namely the plan of attack to improve the track. These are questions in the area of my colleagues from IenW. What I know about them is that improving international rail transport is high on the agenda. There have recently been pieces to the Chamber about this. On 4 June, at the Transport Council, 27 countries embraced the Dutch initiative to work together to further improve international passenger transport by rail, as a replacement for short-haul aviation. This should also be reflected in the Green Deal's mobility strategy. Then it's all about different things. It is about agreements between carriers and infrastructure managers, it is about infrastructure adjustment. Think, for example, of higher speeds. There are still many differences in rail technology, legislation and timetables. That is where more European cooperation is very constructive and in the interests of all countries. Mr Harbers and Mr Sienot also asked about maritime transport. Mr Harbers is right to say that I agree that we should do maritime transport globally. The same is, of course, happening in aviation. Let us do it globally. That's a wise thing to do. However, it is a pity that this is the only reason to look at other options as well.... that the global playing field is currently moving like a snail. That's what's bothering us. The Netherlands simply wants the Commission to look at how shipping can be preserved. It's under investigation. We support that, but we await the results. We will, of course, support all the global measures that can replace European measures or even national measures. This is supposed to be happening globally, but second best is to explore how we can do it at European level. In addition, European action is coordinated with global action in the International Maritime Organisation. Mrs Mulder asks whether this includes a port strategy. I have had to deal with this in my previous job, and funny enough, also in the honorable one, and I now recognise that ports must have a level playing field. It's just competition between countries. Countries compete not for products and services, but for employment. And that competition is certainly going on here. Whether this should lead to a separate strategy for ports? My fellow executives don't think so. They do believe that the Green Deal is important through the strategy for sustainable and smart mobility. The Commission is urged to develop further. Shipping must be preserved through all kinds of European initiatives. The Netherlands is on top of that. Mr Sienot asks me how we are going to commit ourselves to placing aviation under a more ambitious ETS climate regime. Of course, a global solution is always preferable here. I think Mr Sienot agrees with me. At the same time, however, the Netherlands welcomes reforms of the EU ETS aviation system, the reduction of free rights. We'd like to get rid of that. We in Europe have asked for a timely overall assessment of the ETS system for aviation, taking into account all the elements, including those free rights, and all of this, of course, with a view to the global playing field in which we stand. Then Mrs Mulder asks how the goals for nature, agriculture and fisheries are being worked out. Mr Moorlag specifically asked what opportunities that would create for the Netherlands. For example, when it comes to Farm to Fork, there are no agreements yet on common European objectives. It is now more a vision document than a set of concrete measures. And when the elaboration of all kinds of parts of Farm to Fork becomes clearer, the cabinet will determine a position. That is also the time to see how we are going to respond and what this means for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u72	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u73	I have another biodiversity question from Mr Van Raan. How will the objectives of biodiversity policy be translated and how will there be a future for agriculture and fisheries? The Minister of LNV must first hear from the Commission what definitions and criteria are applied by the Commission before a final position can be determined by it. At the beginning of July the Chamber will be informed about the position of the cabinet, with a sheet. Mr Van Raan also asked whether the measures in Farm to Fork and support for farmers were not contrary to climate policy. In all honesty, the Minister of LNV believes that the comprehensive broader vision of the European food system, presented there, is in line with Dutch policy, including her vision of circular agriculture. I'm almost there; I'm in the block of LNV. There was the question of how realistic the triple of nature is. On this point, too, the Minister of LNV awaits the definitions and criteria. Then we come a step further with the chip. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the cabinet would then commit itself to keeping food out of trade agreements. Did I hear that question so well? The answer is no, also because the sector in the Netherlands benefits very much from trade agreements. So that wouldn't help us. There are also policy areas that I serve here from the Minister of LNV and BHOS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u74	Then I have Mr Sienot, Mr Van Haga and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u75	I heard the Minister say about the ETS: we also want the ceiling to go down and it is getting stricter. So that's good. I have another question, which I think is very relevant in the light of what we are doing. It gets a little local and international doing things. Local policy is also being developed, for example the closure of coal power stations. These rights will then enter the international market. We are then greening here, so that people there can pollute cheaper, I say flat. We would like to avoid this by allowing countries to take emission allowances more easily when closing a plant, so that they do not all come onto the market. Otherwise, you're gonna put the horse behind the cart. Is the Minister going to make an effort to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u76	I do not think that is the most practical system. It shouldn't work that way. Then it is true that you are taking a measure and, as a result, withdrawing rights from the market. The efficiency of the system is precisely that you take rights out of the market first and that you are forced to take those measures. Otherwise, you pay twice: you finance the uneconomic top first and then you have to pay the shadow costs of the uneconomic top one more time to take the corresponding ETS rights out of the market. We have a system that takes rights out of the market, but I think that Mr Sienot and I can easily agree that there is too much time between them and that this system is too slow. That is why I am committed to reforming this system so that we do not need to spend separate taxpayers' money on purchasing rights. It also forces others to withdraw their coal plants from the market. That's the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u77	This is where we hit the nail on the head. It is my intention that we should stop spending taxpayers' money on this, but that countries that implement ambitious climate policies should be allowed to take rights, for example when closing a coal power plant. This is a kind of reward for their ambitions. In short, is it possible to reward countries that want to take the lead in their climate policies and act on them instead of selling them out of the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u78	This seems complicated to me, because then it is up to a country to withdraw rights from the market, but only to the extent that that country has taken measures. It's complicated. What do you call a measure? What do you call an autonomous development? What's public and what's private? I would like to see a system whereby excess duties are automatically withdrawn from the market every year that this occurs and the percentage in which duty volumes fall is also increased. I think this is in our best interest. That's exactly what I'm advocating. I think this is important. This is a great system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u79	We are talking about a deal that costs an enormous amount of money and which has also been deposited with Europe. Often, things that come from Europe are extensive. They also often cost a lot of money. For example, I remember the Emergency Trust Fund for Africa, where 4.1 billion went and nobody knew where the money had been transferred. That's why I'm trying to keep things a little concrete and small. That is why I have set an example of the monuments that are not preserved and isolated. Of course I agree with the Minister that it is technically possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u81	That's fantastic. It's all possible. Only, we do not do it, because all kinds of restrictions are imposed at municipal and national level. Especially at municipal level this is stopped. So it doesn't actually happen. That is what my question was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u82	Aha.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u83	So my question is: does the Minister agree with me that we should do this? I would like to know what we can do to remove these obstacles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u84	There you go! Now we're doing business. I naturally agree that we should not create our own obstacles. I can also imagine that there are obstacles in all kinds of regulation. What am I gonna do about it? This is a fellow Member's policy area, and b I think it would be helpful if Mr Van Haga, who may know a great deal about this subject, would please the cabinet with a brief e-mail containing more precise obstacles. Then I'll pass this on to the Secretary of State, and then we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u85	Now we are indeed negotiating; that is very good. I'll file a motion. I will then ask the Minister if he can pass that motion on to the minister who will be responsible for it. And then I'll send you an e-mail containing things that prevent that from being preserved. I hope it will be passed on as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u86	I asked for an e-mail and I'm getting a motion! With Mr Van Haga you have to be careful in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u87	I would like to come back to the issue of air and shipping. The Minister indicated that we should pick it up globally, but the pace is like a snail. I'll share that. My question is: is Europe simply working very hard on an ETS for air and shipping within Europe? I believe that it is indeed ideal to tackle it globally, but we have to wait a very long time. If we tackle this at European level, it can also give us a competitive advantage in the end vis-à-vis other continents. That was the reason for my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u88	I don't know the exact answer to those questions. That really is not my policy. The ETS for aviation is being actively evaluated, but for shipping I must remain guilty of the answer. I can now look up the answer from a fellow department, but in the end I think it would be very fruitful for Mrs Dik-Faber's group to discuss it directly with the govern ment in question. These are important issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u89	I will. Does the Minister have an idea of when the evaluation is known for aviation at least? I will indeed see to it that my colleague brings that question to the person in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u90	I'm gonna find out and the answer might already be in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u91	Okay. Mr Van Raan, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u92	There was a question I had left. Thank you for the answer on the Farm to Fork strategy. My question was actually: do the current subsidies remain intact in the Farm to Fork strategy in order to make the scale increase still possible? The direct income support to farmers is what I am talking about, and the way in which subsidies are made, per hectare, means that this income support is precisely the incentive for intensification. Does the Minister recognize that? That was actually the question. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u93	Okay. To be honest, I don't know the answer to that. It seems to me that scaling up is not the same as increasing emissions. I don't think so. I doubt if one large company releases more than two little ones, but let me do it at another level. Whether this is true or the facts in Mr Van Raan's analysis are correct and whether the logic is correct, I will leave it to my colleague. But let me say on her behalf that attention is given to this possible point in the sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr Van der Lee and then Mr Moorlag. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u95	I have another question on an area full of the Minister's portfolio. He can, I think, respond enthusiastically. I would have asked that question in the first place. The tightening up of the ETS is necessary for many reasons, also because of the increased withdrawal of rights from the market and their broadening. I noticed that the assessment of widening to other sectors was quite negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u97	This is an important element for our eastern neighbours, when it comes to their climate plan, the built environment and mobility. I would like to hear both a substantive and a political argument about this attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u98	Ah, look. They're both coming. In theory, it is undoubtedly the most efficient system if you were to store the entire economy under an ETS and price everything equally, with opportunities to exchange between countries and between sectors. However, there are other considerations not necessarily to do so. This is because the price elasticity in one application is very much different from that in the other. For example, when you talk about personal mobility, we have certain taxes in the Netherlands. If you look at the whole atmosphere of fuel taxes alone, for example, you can see that the implicit CO prices are above €300 per tonne. This has not yet resulted to a large extent in cars that emit well below 95 grams per kilometre. In fact, some segments of the fleet are growing every year. This means that the price elasticity is low there. Now you can say: that is clearly the value we attach to it, so that is fair and efficient. But on the other hand, we just know that if we have to emit much less by 2030 and even less by 2050, we now have to start developing those types of vehicles. We also know that we cannot afford to leave it entirely to one such system. On the basis of its excise history, the Netherlands firmly believes that this strategy is not going to work. Indeed, they are CO2 prices which are very much lower than what is already implicit in the Netherlands. I can imagine that if you're a country that produces a lot of cars and has to do something, you'd say, "Let's do it that way." But in the end, I think it makes sense to recognise that it may not be the best solution. The political answer is: if a country wants it and has a certain logic for it, we have to look at it seriously. We will. The Netherlands therefore awaits a final judgment until a meaningful investigation has been carried out. We think that is a sensible attitude. That means we're not coming up with that judgment until then. This will be reflected in the impact assessment, for example. That is the political answer. We have already been honest about this, not only in our expressions to Europe but also bilaterally, that we have this doubt. I personally had the opportunity to discuss this with Merkel at the Catshuis. Yeah, the only two betas in the room! But here's the answer. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to biomass. No, I don't think I'm getting on biomass. I come to Mr Moorlag, who I see at the interrupting microphone, unless the chairman... It is not woody biomass.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you, Mr President, a generous gesture. The minister states that as a high school student, he already felt that solar energy should be generated in the Sahara.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u102	That's really good. But how is he going to promote that? He must also, to my liking, see this idea in the light of my comment on Europe's finances. I think it is about creating as much value as possible and not just looking at the costs. If, with the production of hydrogen, we can create more value for our society by generating hydrogen in North Africa, but also create value by creating economic activity and prosperity there, then surely you are completely of yesterday if you don't. So my question to the Minister is: how are you going to deal with this in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mr Moorlag always has the primacy over the major questions of direction and governance. He also has that at the soccer club Nieuw Buinen, but also at the bigger governance and direction questions. I have to be a little modest here, too. The Sahara is not part of the Kingdom. Not all developments, innovations and companies are launched by the government, not even by the Dutch government. So what we can do is, as we do in the world, to make contact with countries and investors. We ensure that our infrastructure is in order; that is what we are working on right now. We ensure that we become the logical country not only for imports, but also for the transit and production of hydrogen and hydrogen technology. Then we hope that will be all right with that. It's not like we can guarantee that. But this is, of course, a strategy that the Netherlands has pursued in many areas and has sometimes also failed to do so. You can always ask yourself afterwards, "That's a question for in the café "If we'd had a chance to become a big wind energy producer." You could always ask yourself that. But we are actively committed to the logistics role and the research role. We have always been the country where international contacts have been extremely well controlled and where we have been able to get trade out of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u104	I don't think the Minister should be too modest about this. He talks with his colleagues in Brussels. My question is to strongly promote what he, as a high school student, had dreamed of with his colleagues in Brussels. May I ask another question, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u105	Well, that depends. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u106	Pfoe, I'm getting a bit of an exam feeling here anyway. No, that's not the case. In my view, the Minister took too modest a position on the Farm to Fork strategy. He says it needs to be worked out first. Look at the urgency of the food issue, of the protein transition. In 30 years, 80% of the world's population will live in cities. We may be able to add a billion trees here in Europe, but if all these people are going to consume protein in the quantities we consume in the Netherlands, then billions of trees will simply go away elsewhere. We have the expertise here. My question to the Minister is: how are we going to use this expertise properly? There's gonna be a cabinet formation coming up soon. Is the Minister prepared to take a good look at how we can also use the Green Deal as an opportunity for sustainability, in our own country but also globally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u107	I simply acknowledge, even though I am less inclined than the Minister of LNV, that this is a very urgent issue for the next three decades. But the answer doesn't take three decades either. I promised Mr Moorlag a sheet for the summer. Let's just wait for that. I really think that he too would benefit from an answer that the Minister of LNV has been able to think about, and that rather than just what we can do together here. The intention, the stake, is to have for the summer chips of this. I have said the reasons why the Minister of LNV is likely to be able to respond only to the main points. But that's also what's coming up with the details of the Green Deal. Let's wait for that. Then we can have the debate on what needs to be done in this area over the next three decades. The review of the ETS in aviation is expected this autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u108	That was a question from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u109	That was a question from Mrs Dik-Faber. I'll continue with Mrs. Fat-Faber. She asked the question about biomass, I think. The question is, and I paraphrase her: is this the way forward now? I can only give a nuanced answer to that. If we think that in the long term we will also produce low temperature heat with woody biomass, then I say: that is not the way. That is thermodynamic, economical and ecologically not wise. So that's not the way. That does not mean that the Climate Agreement does not take a sensible direction. The lower beam is that biomass, also woody biomass, is part of the realistic mix. I'm not making that up. The IPCC, which is often cited here when it comes to global warming, also says so. It is irrevocable that there is also a cascading in it. No, it is not wise to produce low-temperature heat with woody biomass in the long term, but woody biomass may be the source of energy for the carbon-processing industry, for example, chemistry. Cascading is really the key in the long run. At the same time, it is a fact that we are in transition and that we cannot start immediately on the most high-quality applications. We're not ready for that. The advance of sustainability in the built environment also requires intermediate solutions. For example, we allow the road to green hydrogen to run partly via blue hydrogen; not entirely, but partly. At the same time, it means that we now have to watch our backs damn closely. We have to ask ourselves again and again whether our certification systems are running, whether primeval forests are not disappearing in the oven and whether air quality questions have been adequately answered. We need to know more and more about the impact on biodiversity. That's now. In the long term, we need to phase out this woody biomass from the low-value heat. There's no other way. That's what we have to do. I also think it wise to think about this already and to make preparations for that policy already. My answer to Mrs Dik-Faber's concerns about the principle is that this is not the way forward, as she herself says. But in a practical sense, we are bound by a transition path. I didn't have to think of that myself. That is also what the Planning Bureau for the Environment says, which, incidentally, makes all kinds of justified comments, comments which are likely to be increasingly shared in this Chamber. Then Mr Sienot asks what the phasing-out path looks like. That phasing-out path shall have at least two elements. A transition? Fine, but someone who's going into transition will have to tell us how it's going after that transition. What is the successor for the generation of low temperature heat in the built environment? Who's gonna be ready in the wings to take over in a while? At the same time, we see that biomass, also woody biomass, is an undeniable part of the mix. Then how are we going to ensure that at the top of the cascade that biomass is used so that we can use chemical products again in the future without oil supply? In my view, these are the two main paths that we need to outline in that phase-out. Finally, I have Mr Harbers' nuclear question. Let me start with what has always been the Dutch starting point. That was three. Firstly, the Netherlands has always said that we are focusing on one goal, namely emissions. Two. We're technology-neutral. Three. We're science-based. We do what we have to do, says first. It doesn't matter how, says the second. As long as it's wise, the third says. That's our policy. This means that we do not believe that a particular technology would belong a priori or not. Now Mr Harbers asks for that "do no harm" principle. We have to look at this in three ways, because that is not one concept. The "do no harm" principle plays in three different ways. The first is taxonomy. Taxonomy is not what European policy is. Taxonomy is nothing more than a label for calling a private investment "green" for reporting according to a certain definition or not. This means that parties have a need to tell society in their annual report how green or not green they are. They can find all kinds of labels and ways to do that. One common could be taxonomy. The question of whether nuclear energy is given one or the other colour is one aspect. I'll get back to you in a minute, but that's one. The second is whether we think that nuclear energy is a use which is eligible for certain European funds, budgets or whatever. That's number two. Number three is: can you actually count it as CO-neutral in the climate forecast? Let me start with the latter: yes, you may. So one way to become climate neutral and make it count as such is nuclear power. Let me start with the other two. The taxonomy discussion is ongoing. At the moment, this taxonomy has no degrees of sustainability at all. You can say that nuclear power is not in that taxonomy, but it is not in it either, because it has not yet been decided. Well, it's been decided to study on that. So it's being looked at. The Netherlands maintains the view that we are science-based and technology-neutral. We have only one objective: emissions. We see what comes out of it and await its advice. The second point, of course, is how we deal with policy. That's really another point. Once again, the 'do no harm' principle has been added, but this is in fact simply the question of whether you can spend a particular spending, a fund or a European budget target on nuclear energy. In some cases, it isn't, and in others it is. Take, for example, the Just Transition Fund. The Just Transition Fund has no energy purpose. It is a fund to compensate for the phasing out of coal in one way or another, in such a way as to create economic activity with a high number of jobs in the short term. Nuclear energy is not directly eligible for this, because it is not in the short term and it is not about many jobs, so it does not fit in with that objective. But there is no other letter, no general statement in the Just Transition Fund on the desirability of nuclear energy in Europe. So with some funds it doesn't fit and with others it does. In fact, there are funds that are specifically focused on nuclear energy. There is a Euratom research and training programme. There's an international thermonuclear experimental reactor. There are funds for the decommissioning and safety of nuclear installations. So that's how it's handled. But again, the most commonly mentioned application of "do no harm" is in that taxonomy... that's really no different than a hallmark. It is not a European policy, but a quality mark that enables private investors to express which part of their investment portfolio meets certain criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u110	Were you finished with your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u111	Let's see. Yeah, I think I was done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u112	Yeah? Mr. Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u113	It was a comprehensive answer, which immediately gives the impression that it is a lot more complex. It can be so much simpler. The Minister says that taxonomy is a private hallmark. In the meantime, however, it is being dragged everywhere in Brussels, as a sort of informal measuring bar: if we stick to it, perhaps later in the Just Transition Fund or in other things, then it will do. At the moment there are just discussions about it in Brussels...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u114	Sure, that's right. Research, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u115	... where the Netherlands does not always play the most active role. I simply ask the Minister: pay attention to this and instruct your officials. There's also an investigation in that Joint Research Centre. That may be ready later than the whole taxonomy starts, but ensure that this can still be included in taxonomy in the event of positive results, because this does indeed play a role in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u116	That's the case. I'll confirm that. It's possible. An explicit confirmation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u117	I would also point out to the Minister that, as he speedes this up and seeks alliances in Europe, he also received a fantastic gift from his Polish counterpart this week. Poland is the only one who does not yet want to participate in an increased objective. It says: we want to do that, but then we want nuclear power to sort in the same way as other techniques. They are also concerned about the fact that it is not in taxonomy, not in other financial instruments. So I'd take this opportunity with my hands open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u118	Thank you for the suggestions and the warnings. By the way, I think the average listener knows that I am not in favour of it from high school but from university. No, not from kindergarten. I can't live up to that, because then I was dealing with very nice things with Legos. Mr. Chairman. I'm out of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u119	I had the same impression. Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Sienot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u120	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome the Minister's commitment to taking advantage of this Green Deal as much as possible where it can help Dutch interests. I believe that this is precisely what we are trying to do and that it will be of great benefit to us, which the Minister has also strongly advocated. As far as the ETS approach is concerned, I would once again ask the Minister to say that he is really going to do his best to ensure that if certain countries are going to be either the Netherlands or other countries are going to go faster locally than other countries and therefore, for example, to close coal plants more quickly, the rights are going to go with the market at that rate, according to the system he is advocating. In that I can also follow him for a long time, because this is ultimately the simplest thing. But that would have to be secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u121	I don't know if you have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u122	I don't have a motion. I did, however, hold a motion on biomass. I've heard the Minister's views on that path. I believe that a number of crucial moments can be added, but I follow him on the main lines. I will therefore table an amended motion after this debate, which will be put to the vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u123	But do the colleagues know exactly what you are going to change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u124	I've got six seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u125	But since we've had a lot of modified motions lately...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u126	The Minister outlines a path and does not mention a number of important things, for example that we are going to stop at some point and that we need to give a clear signal about it. That's what our motion was about. A phasing-out path will lead to a halt and the motion will also go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u127	Let me ask you a question about that. That motion was about stopping subsidies for biomass in relation to electricity generation. The phasing-out path was broader, but when it came to abandoning new grant decisions, it was very much about biomass generating electricity. I checked it before the debate. Are you going to broaden that to heat generation? Is that part of the modification of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u128	What you well understand is that the previous motion was on both points about the cessation of the subsidy, only in the case of a faster one than in the case of the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u129	Do you know the number of that motion, because no one can talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u130	Honestly, I know. That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u131	That is important to know for the clerks in particular, but perhaps you can look it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u132	The motion had two requests. One was about the acute cessation of woody biomass burning for electricity and the other was about a phasing-out path, also leading to the end of subsidies for woody biomass for heat. So it was about both and not just about one thing. What I am about to do is to answer Mr Van der Lee's question briefly. The new one is that we are going to indicate more clearly and specifically what we are going to stop with when it comes to woody biomass and what we want to stop with in the longer term, in the sense that we are really going to have an end date and a turning point to that high-quality commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u134	I'm sorry. I should have had the number. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u135	Doesn't matter. Then we'll get it later. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u136	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that climate policy falls or stands at a sufficient level of support;]] [[considers that it is up to national Member States to implement national climate policy on how to achieve the targets set;]] [[Calls on the Government not to agree to the delegated acts of the European Climate Act as part of the Green Deal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u137	That's a nice coalition, isn't it? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Green Deal does contain plans for rail freight transport but lacks passenger transport;]] [[Whereas, in particular, short-haul flights are now being restarted;]] [[Whereas, despite the above-mentioned intentions, there is no concrete plan for the European rail network to be a full alternative to these short flights;]] [[calls on the government with like-minded countries to come up with a concrete plan of action to implement a rail network covering passenger transport within Europe in the foreseeable future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the way in which the Green Deal is financed does not only leave power with private companies and financial institutions but even strengthens it;]] [[noting that the Energy Charter Treaty remains in place, allowing fossil companies to destroy climate policy;]] [[whereas the fossil industry continues to play its part in this respect;]] [[believes that these old power structures need to be broken in order to bring about real change;]] [[calls on the government to break this power structure and not to invest all its power in these companies and financial institutions;]] [[calls on the Government to terminate the Energy Charter Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-4]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u138	I would have asked a question about this in the first term. I think it's been left lying there. So I'd like to have a little more extensive reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u139	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr. Chairman. In all modesty, I have the climate motion of climate motion here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, first of all, never or never to agree to the European Green Deal, or to do so. the proposals resulting from this and not to contribute a penny to it;]] [[calls on the Government to send a letter to the United Nations stating that the Netherlands is immediately leaving the Paris climate agreement, in accordance with Article 28;]] [[calls on the Government to throw the national climate agreement into the gas stove and repeal the Climate Law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u142	I can see the shredder was exchanged for the gas stove. Mr Van Raan has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u143	Mr. Chairman. I have three climate motions of climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u144	You'd better get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted the advice of De Nederlandsche Bank, among others, to promote investments in sustainability and greening;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what investments in sustainability and greening can be brought forward, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to actively prevent short-term solutions to the current economic crisis contributing to fossil lock-in effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having regard to the motion adopted by Mr Van Raan/Beckerman (34298), No. 24);]] [[Having regard to the motion for a resolution adopted by Mr Van Raan (35470), No. 9);]] [[calls on the government to review proposals from the Green Deal through the Monitor Brede Welvaart,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Moorlag and Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-9]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-7]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u146	Mr. Chairman. We are going to vote on two motions that we have held, on the 55% and 70% percentages, and we are also considering voting on the motion on the sustainability definition of woody biomass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you. Mrs Agnes Mulder has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u148	Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a significant profit to be made in terms of CO reduction in the shipping sector and that ports play a crucial role in this;]] [[Whereas there should be a level playing field for greening measures in European ports;]] [[noting that a research conducted by Rotterdams Havenbedrijf and TNO in 2018 concluded that significant amounts of CO reduction can be achieved through a system of just-in-time sailing, whereby port companies receive ships based on rostering rather than arrival moment;]] [[calls on the Government to call on the European Commission to draw up a green European port strategy which ensures a level playing field and in which the just-in-time sailing system contributes to reducing CO emissions in shipping,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that stopping natural gas extraction in Groningen results in a loss of 20,000 jobs in the North of the Netherlands;]] [[noting that Groningen is seen by the European Commission as an important target area for the Just Transition Fund in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that in the North of the Netherlands there are great opportunities for the development of green hydrogen;]] [[noting that other regions are also committed to the transition to green hydrogen and that we need all regions to deliver the roadmap to green hydrogen;]] [[calls on the Government to consult rapidly with the parties concerned in the North Netherlands and the other regions to jointly draw up a JTF plan, with a specific focus on the further development of hydrogen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Postma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-10]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, especially the last part of the reply. I am pleased to note that the Minister always needs little encouragement to display his love for nuclear energy, especially given the odds that the Polish Government is also keen to participate, provided that nuclear power is given a more prominent place. That should also be a pleasure for the 55% of those who love the Chamber, because then Europe will be united on that front. Soon there was a little debate about what then helps most, an email or a motion. However, if Mr Van Haga makes a motion, I shall add a motion, which may be under the Minister's pillow a bit as an incentive or so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nuclear energy is the largest CO-free source of electricity in the European Union by 25%;]] [[calls on the Government not to exclude nuclear energy from the European Green Deal;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to providing funding for nuclear energy through the highest category of taxonomy and financial instruments in the Green Deal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u151	I give VVDs their loves, but it annoys me when every debate on the climate focuses on cost-effectiveness and that the VVDs, both in the Cabinet and in the Chamber, express that love in such a way. We had an interesting briefing from TNO yesterday. Mr Harbers was there. In both scenarios that they outlined, I will not give them any details. They note that market players will not opt for nuclear energy, because it is incredibly expensive. How am I supposed to combine that, apart from all the other discussions you can have about nuclear energy? Surely you can't deny that the costs are getting out of hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u152	It's just the way you look at it. Compared to subsidised forms of electricity generation, you soon die. I see opportunities, too. If we invest the same amounts of money in subsidies for the development of new nuclear power plants as we have invested in wind and solar panels over the past ten or fifteen years, then that cost could also be reduced. There are good predictions for that too. In the same week that we got the scenarios we were discussing yesterday, we also got other energy explorations, which indeed shows that there are many scenarios in which you simply can't rule it out, you want to move towards full CO-neutral electricity generation in the future. I don't do anything but that. I simply want it not to be ruled out, not even implicitly through rules which ultimately aim to hinder nuclear energy. I would like to draw attention to this by means of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u153	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u154	My first motion concerns an issue to which the Minister did not respond, hence the following text. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet claims to be "positively curious" to the carbon border adjustment mechanism;]] [[Whereas a carbon tax at the border ensures a level playing field for global industry while at the same time providing a strong incentive to reduce CO emissions from industry;]] [[calls on the Government to be positive about the principle of a carbon tax at the border and to consider this with the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u155	Then there's a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU aims to spend only 25% of the Multiannual Financial Framework on climate-related issues;]] [[noting that too loose definitions would mean that all this money would not really be spent on climate-related matters;]] [[Considering that the European Parliament believes that 30% of the MFF should be spent on so-called climate mainstreaming;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself to increasing climate mainstreaming to 30% and also to a much tighter and performance-oriented calculation method so that this money will actually be spent on climate action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u156	Thank you, and also thanks to the Minister for replying. That was in line with my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u157	Thank you, Mr. Van der Lee. Mr Moorlag has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas large clusters of European chemical and energy-intensive industries are located in and near the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas greening and maintaining employment requires the conversion to the use of hydrogen as a raw material and energy source;]] [[whereas Germany has presented a very ambitious hydrogen strategy;]] [[calls on the government to reflect on the need to adapt and intensify the Dutch hydrogen strategy and the use of resources in order to acquire and maintain a leading role in the hydrogen transition in Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u159	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has the most leading knowledge and expertise in the field of agriculture and food and can therefore play a leading role in the European Farm to Fork strategy;]] [[Whereas innovation, more efficient and sustainable food production and the necessary protein transition can make a significant contribution to the realisation of the Green Deal;]] [[Whereas the government set up several study groups prior to cabinet formations;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a study group to identify concrete, coherent and calculated policy options for further lowering the ecological footprint of the food production and consumption chain, accelerating innovation and the necessary protein transition, reducing negative externalities and deploying and marketing Dutch knowledge and expertise in the framework of the Farm to Fork strategy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u160	Apologies, Mr. Chairman, it is indeed a long motion. I was inspired by a motion from one of my colleagues here last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u161	No, it's okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u162	In the future, I won't write any more essays, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u163	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have my own motion. However, I have co-signed a number of motions, including those by Mrs Mulder on Northern Netherlands and other regions, the green hydrogen economy and the Just Transition Fund. I wanted to discuss three more issues with the Minister. The first is the tightening up of the ETS system. I think it's badly needed. I would very much like to see both air and shipping included in the ETS system. I understand that this is not the place to make that plea today. I have done so, but we shall repeat it to the person in charge. The Minister said about biomass: we really want to phase out in the long term. My group is very keen to do so, but rather today than tomorrow. I have just looked it up: 3.5 billion has already gone to the coal power stations and 5.5 billion to smaller biomass plants. Grant decisions run for 15 years. We really need to stop as soon as possible, otherwise it won't be a transition. Mr. Chairman. Then trade agreements, the portfolio of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. One farmer's organisation supports trade agreements, but not all other farmers' organisations. I get a lot of farmers in the yard. I brought it up here today. We will continue to fight for this. The European Union is certainly schizophrenic when it says it wants to strengthen local markets but then closes trade agreements through the back door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u165	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u166	It says "round off" right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u167	Sometimes I do that preventively!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u168	That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u169	No, I'm not. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some things you can do well with all of them, and some things you have to take care of small, local. That is why the next motion, which is co-tabled by Mr Baudet, is tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present state monuments and municipal monuments are very difficult to isolate because national but also mostly municipal rules prevent the isolation of monuments;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how obstacles to the isolation of monuments can be removed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which a national directive can be drawn up for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u171	The request is to transfer this to the relevant ministry. I promise you, I'll come up with a letter with some tips and tools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u172	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u173	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I was a little disappointed by the way in which the issue of subsidiarity and proportionality was removed. It had to be asked, and I'm not entirely comfortable with it. This also has to do with the importance of a self-conscious, independent position in the whole violence of the Green Deal and everything that is being poured out on the Member States. Otherwise, others make up the service that you then have to fulfill and fulfill. I am also pleased that there are ambitious plans, but I do think that feasibility, affordability and acceptance should continue to be addressed. I express the concern of the SGP in a very sober motion, very briefly, in fact a repetition of something that has already been more or less established. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to carry out a thorough subsidiarity test on the Green Deal and all its parts, and to take the concerns raised by the Chamber into account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35377-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u175	And to your pleasure, Mr. Chairman, I'll be finished with my second term in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u176	Yeah, I don't know what I'm seeing. Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I have Mr Baudet here on behalf of... No, Mr Baudet is not here. Then I'll look at the minister. A brief suspension? Five minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u177	I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u178	You're gonna do your best. That's always good. Then I'll suspend the meeting for about five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u179	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you. I'll walk by the motions. I remember that there was also Mr Sienot's question. I would like to begin by saying whether I really want to work for a system that destroys excess rights as quickly as possible, according to the system discussed in the debate. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That's important. I'm on my way to the motions now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u181	Very briefly, Mr. Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u182	It's really short. So it was about countries closing things themselves. Then there's more on the market. We need to keep it at a good pace so that it doesn't go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u183	Agreed. That's a hell of a pace. That's what I'm gonna try with the motions. The motion in part No. Three of Ms. Beckerman's will be judged Chamber. The motion in part No. 4 of Mrs Beckerman, among others, on an undercover rail network is the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. Five with the request to step out of the Energy Charter Treaty, I must advise against. I think it is very useful to remain a member, but I think, probably with Mrs Beckerman, that we are in need of modernisation and that its purely fossil nature is no longer of today. So I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u184	Very briefly, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u185	Very briefly. I had also asked questions about this in the first term and again in the second period, because I wonder what the Minister means by modernising. That doesn't mean much to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u186	That treaty is mostly about fossil. Given that an important part, an increasing part and at some point all energy is no longer fossil, we must also bring non-fossil industries below. One of its considerations is that the fossil industry continues to play its part. I may not agree with that consideration, but I also read here that Mrs Beckerman would also be welcome if non-fossil sectors had access to it. But unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 6. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. Then the motion to part No. 7 by Mr Van Raan. I'm gonna leave that judge room. In the motion in part No. 8 is requested to check the Green Deal with a monitor. This is getting too complex. Review goes by all the policy goals we have. It runs through BNC chips. A monitor is more of an annual report to the Chamber. I do not see how I can organise an integrated review. So I have to dissuade this one, even if I understand the thought behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u187	First the other motions and then you get the floor, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u188	Then the motion to part No. 9, with the request to examine which investments in sustainability could be brought forward. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 10, on the port strategy. At first, I received less enthusiastic reactions from the fellow department, but closer contact brought about the enthusiasm of Mrs Mulder. I shall therefore leave this motion in this form to the judgement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u189	Mr. Van Raan, you had a short question about the motion in part No. 8. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u190	Yeah, going through whatever the minister himself said. At the Millions Note, we received a motion asking for the Millions Note and the Monitor to be linked to the Broad Prosperity. This has the same meaning. It allows the Minister to adapt it so that it is in line with what we are going to do with the Millions Note. Would it be any different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u191	I don't quite understand. The fact that these two reports are coming together more and more has a certain logic. But we don't test things against the Millions note or anything like that either. That's a crazy concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u192	Are you going to hold the motion, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u193	I'm gonna hold her and change her so that the word "keys" will disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u194	But what are you going to do with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u195	I'll hold her for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u196	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (35377, No. 8) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u197	Then I come to the motion on part No. 11 by Mrs Mulder on Northern Netherlands and the plan for the Just Transition Fund. I'm gonna leave that judge room. Then the motion to part No. 12 by Mr Harbers on nuclear energy. I'm gonna leave that judge room. Then the motion to part No. 13. Yeah, I'm positive about the principle of carbon taxation. I'll leave this motion judgment room. Moreover, I am still positively curious about an enforceable proposal. Then the motion to part No. 14. No, that increase puts us out of the coalition in which the Netherlands is now operating, and I do not think that is likely to happen. I'm committed to fighting this coalition for that 25%. I have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 15, by Mr Moorlag and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). on the identification of the use of hydrogen resources. I would almost say that is support for the current intention. But I will certainly leave this motion to judge Chamber, because this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u198	Mr Van der Lee on the previous motion, the motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u199	Yes. I'm still willing to hold that motion as the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u200	What's the number of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u201	That's the motion in part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u202	It's about the motion in part No. 14 about that mainstreaming and the 30%. I would like to continue this motion if I may hear from the Minister that, should it be necessary to convince other Member States and if this could be part of that solution, the Netherlands will cooperate in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u203	I imagine I can be positive about that. Yes, I see no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u204	Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u205	At the request of Mr Van der Lee, I propose his motion (35377, No. 14), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u206	Then I come to the motion on part No. 16 and the motion in part No. 17, respectively, in the fields of LNV and BZK. I can't judge those motions at all. I simply don't know. I see no alternative but to allow the authors to hold on to these motions for a moment, after which I ask my colleagues to return to the Chamber by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u207	Mr Moorlag and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u208	I had hoped that Mr Wiebes could say here on behalf of the entire cabinet that the Farm to Fork strategy is part of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u209	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u210	That it's definitely part of the Green Deal. It is also urgent that this should happen. We've had an authoritative liberal who...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u211	What are you going to do with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u212	I would like to hold the motion, but I would ask the Minister to come forward with a response in the short term. Otherwise, the motion goes over the recess. CO is urgent, but nitrogen is also very urgent and there are great opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u213	Yes. I will pass that request on to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u214	At the request of Mr Moorlag, I propose his motion (35377, No. 16) by the Court of Justice. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr Van Haga on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u216	In my view, the result of our little negotiation was right that the Minister would pass the motion for appreciation to the right ministry and that would then give an appreciation. That seems like a pretty small effort to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u217	I simply failed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u218	No, but you don't have to right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u219	It is a question of whether, for example, the word 'Directive' is appropriate. I have promised to tell my colleague that obstacles must be removed. For that I got back in the negotiation that Mr. Van Haga is clearer about what obstacles they are. He even promised me solutions in the second instance. Whether the wording in this motion is sufficiently in line with that, I have to check with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He'll come back to that in a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u220	I appreciate that, of course, and that is also a good solution. But I have understood something else, because I think it would be nice if you could still forward this motion to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and if that could come with an appreciation for next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u221	That's what I'm offering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u222	Oh, then we understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u223	I am going to pass on the urgency felt by the proposers to the relevant rulers and I am going to try to seduce them to give a quick response that does justice to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u224	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u225	Are you holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u226	No, because we're going to vote on Tuesday. Then I think it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u227	Okay, but then what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u228	Then, in case of doubt, don't catch up. Then I'd have to discourage the motion. That doesn't seem appropriate to me either. Perhaps it is true that with a few changes of words Mr Van Haga's intention is in line with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs thinks is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u229	Well, what are you gonna do, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u230	Well, I guess I'll have to take this final handshake. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u231	At the request of Mr Van Haga, I propose his motion (35377, No. 17). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u232	Hopefully it will be put to the vote. I'd say that's all right. In the motion in part No. 18 The government is invited to carry out a thorough subsidiarity test on the Green Deal and all its parts, and to take the concerns from the Chamber into account. May I give you some interpretation of this motion? It may be that the assessment of this subsidiarity actually takes place by component rather than by whole. This is where they're both called. In response to Mr Bishop, may I interpret the motion in such a way that, when it comes to all parts, it covers the whole? Otherwise, I must discourage the motion for technocratic reasons. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber. Then I'll make sure it gets to the Chamber that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u233	Agreed? Mr Bishop has agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u235	Thank you. We came to the end of the debate with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-25-tweedekamer-8.u236	I thank the Minister and the MPs. We are going to vote on the motions next Tuesday.
