ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	Today, we begin with Mr Van Ojik's question on behalf of GroenLinks on periodic penalty payments for too long procedures at the IND. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "The chaos at the IND can hardly be combated anymore," headlined NRC Handelsblad yesterday. Despite a long series of promises to make the opposite, the waiting times in the asylum procedure are still running out. Asylum applicants are in endless uncertainty, the azc's are overcrowded and, yes, the periodic penalty payments to be paid are rising. The number of asylum seekers has been stable, manageable and predictable for four years. How can you make such a mess of things? The list of organisational problems is endless, according to the NRC. Reports were not shared with the Chamber, but came out through the newspaper. Chefs don't know how many people they actually have work to do. Files are difficult to find and half completed, and problems are dealt with bureaucratically with improvement projects, of which 40 are currently running. 40! Tell me it's not true, that's how I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. All this organizational misery cannot conceal the lack of political direction, not just now, under this Secretary of State, but years earlier, among its predecessors who cut staff too much, who closed shelters in haste and who failed to make a quick and careful decision. Mr. Chairman. I have a lot of questions for the Secretary of State and I'm going to ask a few in my first term. Is it true that a total of 70 million periodic penalty payments for the year 2020 will be taken into account within your ministry and that there are even estimates that this could reach 100 million? Can you explain why on 18 November 2019 you sent the far too low estimate to the Court that the periodic penalty payments for 2020 would be around 17 million? How is it possible that the information from four months ago is so radically different from today's information? Did that happen on purpose or did you have no idea what was going on? Mr. Chairman. My final question in the first term is: what gives you the confidence that the proposed measures, on which we have just received a letter and which are not so groundbreaking, will succeed in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr President, thank you. The decision-makers at the IND have been a problem for a long time. That is what Mr Van Ojik said. For this reason, your Chamber agreed to an additional financial, and also structural, stimulus for the IND at the beginning of 2019. In my letter of 18 November 2019, I informed your Chamber about the state of play of the transition times of the asylum applications to the IND. In that letter I also indicated that reducing the current long lead times to the legal standard is one of my priorities. The others are nuisance and return. As a result of the fact that I was told that the periodic penalty payments for 2020 could amount to EUR 17 million, I decided to instruct an independent external party to monitor the implementation of the general and extended asylum procedure, track 4, at the IND. That research has now been carried out by the research agency Significant Public. On 21 February last I received the final report containing conclusions and recommendations. In the meantime, it is clear to me that the recommendations in the report lead me and that I am going to work on them. But this is just about the report on the amount of EUR 17 million, which was then calculated for the 2020 periodic penalty payments. Mr Van Ojik's question was whether it is true that there is talk of 70 million. I have sent you a letter this morning, in which I have indicated how the estimates of the amounts of 2019 so far are in 2020 and that there is an estimated amount of approximately EUR 1 million on a weekly basis. In November 2019, it was due to a variety of circumstances; it also depends on how many appeals are made to the periodic penalty payments estimated at EUR 17 million. There's nothing I can do about that. That's the amount that was estimated at the time. Now the estimated amount is 70 million. I explained this to you in the letter you received from me this morning, with the percentage and number of people submitting a notice of formal notice and then bringing an action for failure to take a decision in due course. If you extrapolate that, you can actually reach a total of 70 million. When I learned that amount very recently as an estimate, I was very shocked. At the same time, a few days later, Significant's report came out. Significant's report indicates that improvements are possible at the IND. There are two very brief points: the steering can be improved and the planning can be improved. Those are two things that are very important. As a result and as a result of the shock of the estimate of 70 million, I said that I would set up a task force. 'Cause this can't be, and this is unacceptable. This task force must ensure that, in the shortest possible time, even unparliamentary, unconventional measures resolve the problems as quickly as possible, because these amounts cannot be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	Before I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik. The Secretary of State refers to a letter sent this morning. The letter came in at 12:10, so I don't know if anyone was able to read that letter. So he just got in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	Still, there's something I don't understand. On 18 November, the Secretary of State informs the Chamber that the amount of periodic penalty payments she is due to pay could reach 17 million. That was then seen as a rather rough estimate: well, it could be 17 million! Then the Secretary of State will have an investigation done and on 21 February she will receive the first day of our recess, now one and a half to almost two weeks ago a report stating: no, it was not 17 million, it could be four times as much. Then she does not inform the Chamber, and apparently a newspaper manages to lay its hands on that report. Then we have to learn from the newspaper that on 18 November we were informed of an amount which is more than four times lower than the amount that is now available. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how she has so badly, slowly and incompletely informed the Chamber on this point. 'Cause that sounds like the first thing you do when you get a report like that. Mr. Chairman. My second and final question concerns the letter which, as you yourself said, was sent to the Chamber just before this debate. The Secretary of State proposes a number of measures: the appointment of a programme director, project management, operational management and process management. With all due respect to those who came up with this, these are rather obvious, obvious things. If the waiting lists have been rising for years, we've been talking about them for years, can't I assume that you have this kind of management business, so to speak, reasonably in order? Apparently, that is not the case. Now the Secretary of State thinks that solving these management issues will solve the problem of long waiting times. I'm asking her what her role is in that. What is the political direction, the political direction it takes and what it is responsible for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	First of all, on the first question. The 21st is the report of Significant. That report was not about periodic penalty payments, but about the practice at the IND and to what extent it could be more efficient and better and where it could fail. That's what Significant's report was about. The amount of 70 million has very recently fallen orally at some point. I immediately asked the Director of Migration and the head of the IND to give me a note explaining what is going on, what is happening and what are the possible ways to combat it, to contain it as much as possible. So it is a slightly different story from what Mr Van Ojik has just said. Immediately afterwards, as soon as I got all this information, I started writing a letter to the Chamber, because it is important to inform the Chamber properly. But for that, I need to get all the pieces above the table. That is why you only received the letter today, together with the report by Significant and also with a report by KPMG, which has been requested by the IND itself in recent months. I come to your second question. You say that there will be a programme director and a task force; these are obvious measures. I must say that it is measures that are aimed at getting this right as quickly as possible. The programme director shall be appointed to implement the measures identified in his report. I've set up the task force. It will report directly and very regularly to me and to the Secretary-General to ensure that we have mastered the problem of periodic penalty payments as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Then I go to Mr. Emiel van Dijk on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	What the hell is this bureaucratic bullshit? All the people sitting here and at home, thinking, "What the hell is this about?" We have here a Secretary of State who just likes to say that €5,000 to €15,000 per person is being paid out to people who shouldn't have been here at all, to profiteers, to lucky seekers, who deliberately frustrate the place in order to abuse the legislation that is now in force and which you are now in force. 1 million euros per month: complete madness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	A week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	A week, even worse. 1 million a week; 50 million a year. I have a very simple question: can the Secretary of State indicate that from now on, from now on, not a penny will not be paid one euro, not a penny, so nothing will be paid out to those profiteers at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	I have just said, in response to Mr Van Ojik's questions, that I have set up a task force, which is immediately working actively to come up with all possible and impossible solutions to deal with this problem as quickly as possible. Mr Emiel van Dijk asks me if I can say that no more money will be paid today. I can't give you that answer. But the answer is: as soon as possible we are trying to deal with this problem immediately, because it is not good for public money to be spent in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	Your second supplementary question, Mr. Emiel van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	Absolutely. This is a very clear answer. The Secretary of State simply continues to pay all these cents to asylum seekers who abuse our hospitality, which should have been abolished as far as we are concerned. Let us say for a moment that it was the VVD that opened the door to all these people, so that they came in here and think that it is some party to which the Secretary of State invited them. Your party, the VVD, has surrendered with the Turkey deal to the dictator Erdogan. Now there are tens of thousands left on the fence, all of which are about to come here. Are you going to give them all €15,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u16	As for the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u17	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u18	Yes, Mr. Chairman. As far as PVV is concerned, it is crystal clear: not a penny more to those people and fast elections to deal with this worthless VVD policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u19	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I have already answered Mr Van Dijk how I am going to proceed with the task force. I would like to say a few words about the situation regarding asylum and migration. The years of legislation have been something of the entire Chamber, of the entire Parliament................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u20	Except for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u21	No, no, no, no! Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u22	A license of inability; something else I can't call it. Withdrawal periods are so long that the inflow is in no way comparable to that in 2015. People who have to go back to their own country are not deported. People wait a long time in uncertainty, sometimes up to two years. The Secretary of State says, "Yeah, I was pretty freaked out." My question is: how could the Secretary of State be shocked? You know that waiting times are increasing, so it is a calculation of what this means in periodic penalty payments. The periodic penalty payments are not the problem, but the fact that we no longer have a decent asylum and migration policy. I really think it's a license of inability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u23	We do have a decent asylum and migration policy. In 2017, the size of the IND was scaled too quickly, and this caused problems. I started by saying that thanks to your Chamber money and structural funding have been added; that helps. My predecessor said to your Chamber that in the first instance stocks are going to increase at the IND despite the extra money that has been given for staff. That is indeed the case. I heard the estimate for the periodic penalty payments in 2020. I thought that estimate was high. That is why I ordered that external investigation, which I received on 21 February. Turns out it's worse than estimated. Every effort is being made to contain it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u24	Your second question, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u25	But that wouldn't scare the Secretary of State, would it? If you know that waiting times are rising, is there a simple calculation of what the periodic penalty payments should be? Until when is this mess gonna take? Is there an exact end date on which the delays have been overtaken? If that is not the case, we will pay EUR 1 million every week until the end of the week. Have to figure out how many people you can hire and what beautiful things you can do from the money we're just flushing through the toilet right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u26	In the letter you reached this morning, indeed a little late, I also wrote that I will inform your Chamber about the progress of the improvement process and the timeline within four weeks. The task force intends to control the problem of lead times as quickly as possible and therefore of periodic penalty payments, which are the result of long lead times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u27	It also makes me a little despondent, because we have tried to add extra money to it for a reason, so that people can be done justice quickly and they have clarity quickly. But then it doesn't work. I think it's a good thing the Secretary of State is putting all the strings together to get it done, but it's frustrating. Whatever's frustrating is those periodic penalty payments. Is the Secretary of State seriously trying to stop these periodic penalty payments? It cannot be the case that people who simply go into a procedure that takes longer due to circumstances take up so much money, whereas that is not necessary and that money can be used to quickly clarify people's status. In other words, is emergency legislation being prepared to stop this periodic penalty circus immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u28	That is certainly being considered, but that is not easy to resolve, and it is not easy to solve today either. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that too. If we say that the Penalty Act does not apply to these matters, then that only applies to the defaults. In that case, we will not be able to decide on the appeal in good time, because for this we need to change the General Administrative Law Act. That's a road that's tricky. I am not excluding that road at all, but I want the task force to start working from day one to ensure that we are at least going to curb it and get it under control, because we simply have to get rid of those long lead times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u29	In this respect, the Netherlands is just a bit unparliamentary, let me say, for SGP concepts, crazy Henkie of Europe. We know asylum seekers who repeatedly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u30	Mr Krol protests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u31	His first name is Henk. I was talking about Henkie. We have long known that there is a problem here. We have tabled a motion as a group on the final examination of the asylum and migration issues. Unfortunately, he didn't make it through the PVV's vote against. We have long known that, in contact with the IND, we are simply working towards delaying procedures so that deadlines are exceeded and those periodic penalty payments can be claimed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u32	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u33	The question is specific: what is stopping the Secretary of State from taking steps today to block those periodic penalty payments for asylum seekers? There's nothing, no international treaty...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u34	Mr. Bishop...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u35	There is nothing but the own regulation that imposes this on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u36	You really need to wrap up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u37	That is what I am doing here, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u39	I have just said in reply to Mrs Van Toorenburg that, of course, we are facing this. But I have also explained that there is a difference between the Penalty Order Act, which applies only to the defaults, and the General Administrative Law Act, which applies to appeals not to decide in time. So it's not just a matter of stopping a law. It is indeed terrible what is happening with these periodic penalty payments. They're huge amounts. You're talking about crazy Henkie that are your words "but indeed, you're wondering how this can be. At the same time, it is true that the government, including the parliament: Lower House and First Chamber.. has introduced legislation with open eyes with periodic penalty payments, including for asylum matters. So as a government, we must also do our best to ensure that we stick to the deadlines. With this task force, I will make sure that we really do so as soon as possible, so that we do not have to pay the periodic penalty payments anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u40	A quick question. The second question, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u41	Before that task force reports, we'll be four weeks. Why is the Secretary of State not already taking the steps necessary to stop the abuse of this scheme? This is regulated by law, but it's never meant to be like that. In that sense, it is abuse. Why wait four weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u42	The Task Force shall present measures............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That the law is not intended for these periodic penalty payments... We've got the Penalty Act. We have the General Administrative Law Act, which regulates what is the matter with appeal when not deciding in time. I can't disable it all at once today. Nor can I say that they are not intended for these matters, because they are meant to be. This law did not enter into force on asylum matters for three years from 2010. He doesn't apply to tax cases either. There was a horizoning on it. That's when it ended. Now the rules of the Penalty Act and the AWB also apply to asylum matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u43	I have two questions for the Secretary of State. The first one is very short. I read in the letter that the coverage of over 70 million has to be found within the Ministry of Justice. I would very much like to receive a letter from the Secretary of State within two weeks on exactly where they think they are going to find this cover. In general, it is not very wide-ranging in the Ministry of Justice. Can the Secretary of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u44	We're working on the spring note right now. That will probably not be unknown to Mr Groothuizen. I must honestly say to Mr Grothuizen that I do not know whether I can give my word at the moment. I don't know if the officials are gonna be able to pull this off in two weeks. What I can promise to Mr Grothuizen is that I will do it as soon as possible. I also said that in four weeks' time I will come forward with the progress of the improvement process and the timeline. Maybe I can do that at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u45	The second question. Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u46	Yeah, the second one. I hear several colleagues commenting on this penalty payment: all shame, shame, shame. But I think the system is just that the government has to decide on time. If the government doesn't decide in time, there's a penalty payment on it. I have a Secretary of State in front of me who has said several times in the press: "Rules are rules. They need to be followed. This applies to people, and so does the government." I think it's simple: if you decide too late, the government simply has to pay that penalty payment. Then I personally find it a bit weird to say: well, those rules are pretty bad; let's change them. Can the Secretary of State respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u47	I have just given a fairly clear answer to Mr Bishop, I thought, in which I said that I think that if the government lays down rules that we have to decide within a certain period of time, we should, in principle, adhere to them. But given the problems that lie ahead, I would like to see what the possibilities are. At the same time, I have indicated that these possibilities are extremely limited and that it is not settled today or tomorrow either. Of course I'm investigating the possibilities, because that's important, but I don't see how I can solve this right away tomorrow. And again, I think a reliable government should make decisions on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u48	Like many other things, the asylum policy of three Rutte Cabinets has completely failed. This week's news is kind of amazing. Last year it was 17 million in periodic penalty payments. Now it's 70 million in periodic penalty payments. The Secretary of State says that she heard this by the way, somewhere in the hallway, and then started working on it. Of course, she should have informed us immediately. Now we're here because of an unveiling in the newspaper. Does the Secretary of State recognise that she has informed us incompletely and that we are now having this debate through an article in the newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u49	I do not agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk. He says I happen to be in the hallway by the way... I heard it by the way, but I didn't use the words "in the hallway." I'd like to establish that. It happened to be mentioned, in passing, in a conversation with a number of employees. I jumped right in on that and immediately asked for a note. To know exactly what's going on and what's going on, I just need good data. Mr Jasper van Dijk will also have to acknowledge that. Because if I send something to the Chamber blindly, it's going to be $70 million while I don't know anything else, the first question your Chamber can ask me is: but what about it? That's what I wanted to know first. Now I've informed your room. If the press has managed to lay their hands on that, you should ask them why, but I did not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u50	The Secretary of State is right to say that these periodic penalty payments are in the law. Fortunately, however, she also says: for this kind of large sums, which are now to be paid out, our taxpayers' money is not meant. This is meant to do beautiful things for the Netherlands and not to give to asylum seekers in such large numbers. D66 just advocated the right of asylum seekers to do so, but as a VVD we find it really very unfair that Refugee Work and asylum lawyers are now massively advising people to make use of these financial opportunities. Can the Secretary of State ensure that that is not possible today, that we temporarily suspend the law? Can we do that? Can her task force examine whether that is technically possible, so that we could decide as a political one? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u51	That's definitely under investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u52	I'm happy about that. Then I hope that we can quickly receive the result as a political one, so that we can make that decision, because as far as the VVD is concerned, this has to stop. Then there is my second question, which I have not actually heard in this debate. There is a possibility for the COA to ask asylum seekers who make use of the possibility to obtain financial resources from the government to use part of that money to pay for their own reception. That is the so-called Reba scheme. Can the Secretary of State discuss this with the COA, so that this is actually asked of these people? In this way part of the money will flow back anyway and not just disappear and be used in this way, which is sin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u53	The Reba scheme is a statutory scheme. The possibilities that Mrs Becker is setting out are indeed there. In the letter and just now, I have given you an oral undertaking that I will inform your Chamber within four weeks of the progress of the improvement process and of the matters we are working on, including the question of whether we can temporarily suspend the law and so on. That will also apply to the Reba.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u54	You'd almost forget this is about people and not just about money. Those people are in uncertainty for a long time. We have a duty to live up to the rules we have devised with each other. Does the Minister also agree that we leave people in uncertainty for a very long time in this way, also because we sometimes think that they may be less likely later? Are the Minister and the Task Force wondering how we can give them more certainty, which will save us money?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u55	It's terrible when people have to wait that long. That is why the lead times for me, from the moment I have accepted this position, have become a major problem to solve, because lead times are very annoying for all parties, not least for the asylum seeker himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u56	Second question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u57	I sometimes wonder who we're debating with here. Is that someone who's a spectator at that ministry? I found the answer of just now "it wasn't casual in the hallway" shocking. Did the Minister intervene immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u58	Not the Minister, but the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u59	Yes. Did the Secretary of State immediately intervene and say: this kind of information is so important that we should organise it in a different way? What did the Minister do about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u60	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u61	Yes, the Secretary of State, thank you, Chairman. I started by immediately asking for a note about what's going on, what's behind it, what's going on and what's going on. I received that note after a few days. Meanwhile, I got the report from Significant. That's what I asked for, because I thought the lead times were too long. Following what I heard in the middle of November about the estimated amount of periodic penalty payments, I was so shocked that I said: boys, this has to be different. So I immediately intervened on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u62	The fact is that the Secretary of State has known for some time that she misinformed the Chamber in November. Conscious or unconscious, I don't know. But the Chamber was misinformed in November. Not just a little bit, but with a difference of over 50 million. That's what the Secretary of State knew. The question is why she did not just say to the Chamber: 'I now have new facts.' Apparently that was an internal memo, which she had to ask for herself, because the official was only mentioned in passing that there was a difference of a factor of four. She had to ask for it herself and she got it, but an article was needed in NRC Handelsblad before this came rolling and we are standing here now. Why? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u63	Mr. Chairman. I think I should get to the bottom of everything before I just send your Chamber raw information. 'Cause no one's gonna give a damn about raw information. We need to find out exactly what's going on. That's what I had done. I can't say anything about the fact that the NRC has received this information through sources during the receperiod, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u64	I just walked back and forth from annoyance. It's just another unheard-of moment I'm going through, the confrontation with this Secretary of State. It's verbal powerhouse again. That's unheard of. I have now witnessed a sample of strength that I could ask a question about, but that's a shame, because I only have two. She has said that she is creating a task force, amidst a lot of bureaucratic ram, which, if necessary, comes up with impossible solutions. My question would be how it would imagine that solution. But then I'm gonna miss a question, so I'm gonna leave it. What I do want to ask is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u65	Maybe it's useful to talk into the microphone, because otherwise people won't be able to follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u66	The $70 million, are they paid out without a hitch? As soon as there's an asylum seeker who says, "Hey, you're late, the penalty has gone down," is that paid out without a hitch? Does the Secretary of State ever argue against such a claim?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u67	The IND will defend itself against all proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u68	With who?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u69	To the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u70	Second question, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u71	I mean, you know, and that's not a question, just to be sure, is there any defence against a claim that says, "You're late, you have to pay me this and that." Does the state sometimes say, "I don't, 'cause..."? No, that never happens. It's an automatism. One goes to the counter and collects the money, one million a year. What the Secretary of State must do, and the question is: if they do so... There's something like civil law, isn't there? If an asylum seeker himself contributes to the delay that occurs, to loosen money, then he is not in good faith with his claim. And then you can ask the civil court for interim relief to suspend that execution. Then he won't get a penny. If you are smart, you may in the alternative apply to the civil court at least until the decision on the application for asylum has been taken. If it turns out he's a fraud, he won't get a penny. But what you guys do as a government right now is just throw that money away without a hitch. There's no defense at all. The only thing we're getting now is a task force that has to come up with impossible solutions. Well, here's the solution. Defend, go to the civil court and bring an interim suit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u72	Mr. Chairman. If I do not decide on the appeal in good time, it is the judge who makes a judgment on it and imposes the daily penalty payment. Then the IND will have a number of weeks in principle four weeks to reach a decision. If that doesn't work, the penalty's gonna run. It's the judge who decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-2.u73	Thank you. Then I thank the Secretary of State for her answers.
