ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal Amendment of the Disability Services Act for Young People and some other laws relating to further activation of the participation of young disabled people and the harmonisation of the various regimes of Wajong (35213). I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a bill that amends the Disability Services Act for young disabled people, the Wajong and some other laws. It's called harmonisation, and then you have to be on your qui-vive with this government. According to the Secretary of State, the reason for these changes is that the system of various schemes in the Wajong has proved complicated. There is now a spaghetti of rules which means that people with Wajong benefits do not participate. Mr. Chairman. The PVV is always a strong supporter of the simplification of legislation. But instead of making this spaghetti a pleasant meal, there is now a mikado stack in front of it. And you know, Mr President, how the mikado game is going: in case of one mistake, the turn is over and the points are counted. And so are countless Wajongers and many organizations, according to the large number of responses that we all received by mail and by letter. Mr. Chairman. Unclearness and uncertainty are inconvenient to this vulnerable group of people. And then, when this bill reached us, we would not even have had the crisis caused by the Wuhan virus. Since then, the world has changed for everyone and become more threatening. This applies in particular to this group of people. In view of the broad opposition to this bill, it would have decorated the Secretary of State if she had used the crisis caused by the Wuhanvirus to put this bill on a somewhat longer footing and revisit it. But no, it's even on the emergency list. That is why we are discussing this bill today. Not so smart, we think. Just another communication plan, the Secretary of State thinks. And so we can read in the reply that the UWV has developed an integrated communication strategy that describes how customers are informed about the legal change. Because of the importance of careful communication, I continue to read, the new communication products are tested with the target audience by submitting them to the customer panel and to the UWV's client council. If you read this kind of gibberish, you're 100% sure you're being cheated. And that's how the Wajongers feel. Mr. Chairman. The PVV is concerned about the financial consequences of this bill for large groups of Wajangers, perhaps mainly stimulated by the apparently necessary communication strategy. We have all seen countless examples by email and by letter of how things can go wrong on an individual level. A nice story with many guarantees from the Secretary of State cannot improve that. The PVV therefore understands very well that the care of the Wajongers remains unabated. Mr. Chairman. On 26 November 2019 I attended a closed technical briefing on the bill, which was provided by employees of SZW. And let's face it, I haven't been able to tie a rope to it. It was particularly unclear who gave what guarantees at what time of change of work, study, state of health and so on. This problem of ambiguity is all the more serious because, according to the response, Wajongers at individual level can only be informed about the impact of the bill on their personal situation in the run-up to its entry into force. According to the Secretary of State, the consequences for the personal situation depend on the personal situation at the time the bill enters into force. Mr. Chairman. For these reasons of unpredictability for personal situations, we consider this bill to be so irresponsible that I can say at first reading that we will be voting against it in its present form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I have a rather peculiar habit of taking notes for myself of something that strikes me. I also did this in 2010 when, following an article in Elsevier Weekblad, I noted the following quote: "In the Netherlands, 30% of the new disabled persons are under 35 years of age and in the other European countries this is 10%." The question I raised at the time was: how is it that relatively many people in the Netherlands are already being written off for the labour market at a young age and what is needed to make this less definitive? Therefore, looking for answers, I have studied with great interest the policy review of SZW on budget article 4, young disabled people. It is noted that legal measures for young disabled people are mainly aimed at providing income support at a higher level of protection than assistance. Implicitly, as a government, you already indicate that for young disabled people you estimate the chances of income from regular work lower. However, the higher level of protection also invited young people with mental disorders, for example, to register for the Wajong in good time at an early age. Opportunities for recovery at a later age were not awaited. For those who once were in the scheme, the fear of losing the higher level of protection of the Wajong was, in particular, reason for sometimes not taking steps to get out of the scheme. De Wajong focuses on the idea that young disabled people need protection, but also carries the risk that people will remain in prison more or less for life. The focus is not primarily on a more inclusive labour market in which people with disabilities have the right, like everyone else, to earn their own money with work that suits them. While writing this input, I was reminded of Koen. Koen is a former colleague of mine. That's not his real name... and everyone in the O.R. of the hospital where I was working. He cleaned the ok and took care of the logistics. He also took care of the employees. When we came to the department early in the morning, Koen already had the coffee ready and when we had to work overtime, he made sure that everyone had something to eat. At anniversaries and other parties of ok-workers, also in the private sphere, Koen was always invited. Koen was always there, but he was always there for everyone. Koen had a limitation, but he was fully part of it. He was appreciated for who he was and what he did was important in the day-to-day operations of the operating department. However, Koen is from before the introduction of the schemes for young disabled people. I'm from before that, by the way. Of course, adequate social protection as the only income provision is vital for young disabled people without work capacity. This protection remains unchanged with the present legislative proposal. But for today's Koens, who do have work power, more is needed to ensure that they can fully use their talents in today's labour market and not be constrained by restrictive rules. Mr. Chairman. Against the background of this preliminary consideration, I come to the assessment of the present legislative proposal. I will then go into what remains to be done for all of us. I also refer to the final evaluation of the Participation Act and the legislative proposal on a broad offensive. In conclusion, I would like to comment on the opinion on the UN Disability Convention issued by the College of Human Rights. Harmonisation of the Wajong is mainly motivated by the fact that it is not sufficiently emphasised here today by Wajongers themselves, who indicate that they feel limited by the current rules in the system. They feel limited in the ability to participate and continue to evolve. The aim of this legislative proposal is to remove these obstacles. An additional complicating factor, including in the communication on the effects of harmonisation, is that the current arrangements are virtually incomprehensible and inexplicable. Which one of us has managed to understand the complexity of all these rules, which have been developed and expanded in a spirit of intensity since 1976, but in which almost every logic has been lost? The motives will have been quite respectable, such as adapting to new ideas about participation and inclusiveness and respecting acquired rights. However, I believe that everyone agrees that clear, comprehensible rules are no longer in place at the moment and that they do not serve legal certainty and equality. When a means stands in the way of the desired development, there is something to say to start all over again. But the government does not go that far with this proposal. Unlike the young disabled after 2015, the young disabled in the Wajong regimes, which we are discussing today, retain the right to a Wajong benefit, to which the partner and asset test, unlike the Participation Act, does not apply. The higher level of protection is thus maintained in the base. In order to promote Wajangers' participation, the present bill provides that more work always pays and that, as is the case now, all earnings should be surrendered because you happen to have made a few euros too much or because you are classified in another disability class. The harmonised Wajong also no longer reduces the benefit when you go to college. This gives certainty and promotes the opportunities to continue to participate and develop. It is also now arranged that you can always fall back on a Wajong benefit when you lose your job. In my introduction, I already indicated that the fear of losing the higher level of protection of the Wajong works against taking steps leading to the termination of the Wajong. This uncertainty is also removed by this legislative proposal. I think that is really very good improvements. Then why are we bombarded with letters from Wajangers who say they are very worried? These letters come to an important extent at least, as far as I have been able to analyse them from a part of the target group for which the current arrangements are best suited, namely those who are at the cutting tooth point imagine it for a moment or on the plateau at the continuing work scheme. I refer to a graph from the reply. Those at the base of that saw-tooth or for that plateau, allegedly a much larger group, will benefit directly from the new harmonised regime. The VVD therefore supports the measures that take these undesirable cases, but also the legal inequality, out of the Wajong. However, we are trying to judge whether the concerns of the group that is now at that optimum of that saw-tooth are justified and whether this legislative proposal offers them sufficient guarantees. In this context, attention has been paid, among other things, to the so-called alternative formula. When I read this formula, my reaction was actually: this is a repetition of what is constantly happening in the Wajong. Every time we come up with a new formula for a specific group, which applies only to a small group. This does not solve the complexity of the current arrangements. I also think it is problematic that you have been able to observe from the interrupting debate between me and Mrs Sent that the formula is based on the minimum wage as the new social minimum, and only for those who fall within the current Wajong regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mrs De Bruijn just now indicated that she thinks that we are getting a lot of letters from those who are at the point of the sawing tooth. She calls attention to those who sit on the lower plateau. But does Mrs De Bruijn agree with me, I would ask, through the President, that the United Nations Convention on Disabled Persons prohibits the exchange of the individual rights of one person against the individual rights of the other? So you can't take something from one person to give it to the other. That treaty is about the individual rights of the individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u7	I understand the question. I went into that again this morning. The assumption is that we take it away from one person and give it to the other. But when we look at the financial outcome of the bill, we just see that money comes in, for example, for that amount of guarantee. So I don't see what you're saying going to happen there, we're taking it away from one person and it's going to go to another. I really explain the proposal in such a way that those who are often disproportionately disadvantaged in the scheme are simply given more opportunities to be earned, and may hold 30% of them, and that those who are at the optimum level, as I have said, will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u8	Then Mrs De Bruijn and I agree that, should the debate prove that those who are on the cutting tooth point are going backwards, that would be contrary to the UN Convention and that we would then like to hear from the Secretary of State how she is going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u9	I have, of course, already raised these issues in the written round. Looking at the answers to that, I have not picked up a signal that this group is deteriorating, because in fact these measures are being taken to maintain their income position, but under a number of conditions. Maybe I'll go further in a moment, but in fact, it can happen to anyone that you lose your job. Then they first fall back into the WW, as is the case for everyone. If one finds a new job within a year, one actually gets the income that one is entitled to now. This is also indexed up to the retirement age. Now there is the corona crisis, but when we received the bill, we assessed it as a sufficient guarantee. Now new uncertainties have arisen from the corona crisis. That is why I listened with interest this morning to the comments to perhaps make the scheme more coronaproof. I'm certainly interested in that, but I'll wait for the Secretary of State's answers first. But we are a little concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u10	Mr. Kox. Third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u11	At least the latter is very important. It is important that we agree on the need to consider the extent to which the corona effects should be taken into account. I would like to see the continuation of the debate that, should it appear that there is a deterioration in the income of the group that Mrs De Bruijn, who approached me others, there is a looming error in the legislative proposal. If the decline is not there, then the reasoning is correct. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u12	What we agree on is that I will listen with interest to the reaction of the Secretary of State. My analysis before the corona crisis broke out, even as far as I was able to get it out of the answer, was that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u13	I heard Mrs De Bruijn expressing appreciation for the fact that people are allowed to love every euro earned, but that is a deterioration. In the context of the Wajong 2010 people are allowed to keep €0.50 of each euro earned up to the legal minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u14	In my view, this is only the case in specific cases. I didn't make all the calculations, but I think it's a good idea to put that matter to the Secretary of State. That €0.30 is correct, because one can keep a third of the earnings, but I would also like to present this to the Secretary of State through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u15	I would like to answer that question: it was €0.50, but it will be €0.30. In fact, that makes it a retrograde step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u16	I understand that this concerns only a specific group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u17	As for the Wajong 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u18	That's the optimum I was just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u19	You're asking that question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u20	In fact, it doesn't do anything for the breadth of the analysis, because it's about that optimum group. I need to see where I left off. I said that I find it problematic in terms of formula and that the minimum wage is regarded as the new social minimum. I said something about it this morning in the little debate with Mrs Sent. We're healthy. We're healthy. I realize it's hard then to fully move into what it means to you if because of a disability you have little perspective to improve your situation. That doesn't just apply to the people in the Wajong. The same applies to those who have been subject to restrictions in the Participation Act since they were young. It also applies to people who later become disabled or ill for another reason, which means that they can no longer work. The VVD is not inclined to introduce for this particular group such a formula that creates another form of legal inequality to other groups, which are not included in the proposal. Of course, everyone is free to determine what a fair social minimum is, but if you are going to introduce it in this way, it requires a fundamental discussion, which, in the opinion of the VVD, should not be conducted here within the framework of this legislative proposal, but should primarily be carried out on the other side, because it has far-reaching implications for our entire social system. There are about 240,000 Wajangers. Some of them, including in the Breman scheme or the continuing working scheme, are affected by the effects of harmonization. I understand that this is a relatively small group, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she can indicate the size of this group. In order to ensure that this group does not deteriorate, the so-called guarantee amount is fixed. As long as a working Wajanger from this group retains his or her job or position, the amount of the guarantee applies, so that the income remains the same. In the case of job losses, I explained that just a short while ago, the guarantee amount again applies when a new job is found. The amendment by Stoffer and Baudet on the other side has extended the period during which, in the event of job losses, that guarantee amount can be revoked from two to twelve months. We can support that, too. I would ask the Secretary of State that this income guarantee, which I have read with indexation, is valid until someone's retirement age, when one's working conditions remain the same? The letters we received also show that there are many people, including those in the media, who I think are unnecessarily concerned about the consequences of harmonization. Because of the difficult interpretation of the too complex rules, it is virtually impossible to determine the impact of harmonisation on everyone's personal financial position. I understand that people want to have certainty about this. As long as it is not there, I think this is right to cause unrest. Can the Secretary of State state state what is going on with the implementation of, among other things, the motion Nijkeren de Haan and others adopted in the Lower House, which calls on the government to provide clear and sound information on harmonization in the short term? Have this harmonization solved all the problems for people with disabilities in order to get to work? No, I wish. The Secretary of State states that the Bill for Harmonisation Wajong is part of a wide range of measures that should lead to a more inclusive labour market. It follows from the evaluation of the Participation Act carried out by the SCP that 62% of young disabled people with working capacity have no work and therefore no prospect of an improvement in their income position. This was then still at the time of the boom. A new major crisis is now emerging; we have talked about it many times today. This is particularly bad news for the participation of people with disabilities. After all, the SCP sees major structural problems and argues that there is still a lot of work to be done in order to be successful in the long term. In addition to complex regulations, some of which are solved by this legislative proposal, the SCP also points to the lack of clear, easily accessible arrangements for employers to employ people with disabilities. In this context, the Secretary of State announces the proposal for a broad offensive, which includes measures aimed at increasing labour market opportunities for people with disabilities. Can the Secretary of State indicate when this bill will reach this Chamber? I understand that everyone, both at the ministry and at UWV, is very busy with the emergency measures, but I also think it is important to put extra energy in it, so that we can get a good safety net for this group, which may be particularly heavily affected by the crisis. I would like to go into this in greater depth when dealing with that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u21	I had hoped that Mrs De Bruijn would say a little more about her appreciation of what is now in the guarantee clause. From two months that went to a year. I think Mrs De Bruijn is quite right to point out the corona crisis, which can, of course, be frustrated again. Does she have any ideas or that need to be extended to ensure that people do not get into trouble? We know, for example, that in the time of high-class economics, which Mrs De Bruijn has just mentioned, about 68% of people had new jobs within a year. I fear that, in the event of an economic crisis, that percentage will be very low. Does Mrs De Bruijn agree with me that at least that is something that needs to be looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u22	I think I have more or less gone into that, but if I understand correctly, your question refers to those 12 months. I see that's right. Look, before the crisis, I said that I thought this was an acceptable arrangement, but the situation is changing. The possibility that the labour market will probably be put under extra pressure for these people means that it will take longer to find a job. That is why the question is whether we can perhaps make this arrangement more crisis proof, or at least look at it seriously with each other. But again, depending on what the Secretary of State may have to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u23	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the opinion of the College of Human Rights, and specifically the advice given by the College to the government to make it visible on its own initiative how legislation contributes to the implementation of the UN Convention on Disabilities. The government has expressed reservations about the impact of an explicit review of the UN Convention on disability and its possible precedent for other international conventions. The examination of draft laws in conformity with international conventions is now an integral part of the advice given by the Council of State. It also seems more or less impossible for the VVD Group in that opinion of the Council of State to report explicitly on everything that complies with the legislative proposal, rather than the current way of working, reporting only where the situation is not in conformity with the legislation. I therefore have two further questions on this matter. The first is: does the government consider that I should ask the government this question, because other ministries are also involved to include the Human Rights College as an advisor and supervisor with regard to the implementation of the UN Convention on Disability in the consultation rounds of relevant legislation? This is also common among other supervisors such as the Dutch Data Protection Authority or the Health Inspectorate. Can the Secretary of State promise that this Chamber will also be informed about the outcome of the consultations between the US and BZK ministries on whether or not the additional test, which has been mentioned by others this morning and as proposed by the Human Rights College, is feasible? Finally. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I look forward to being answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u25	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. I call Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u26	Thank you, Mr President. The debate we are having today has opened up a great deal, as I can say, of young disabled people who have entered this scheme because of their early disability. But not just that. The comments of parents and caregivers also give us signals of great unrest about the new interpretation of the Wajong. Like so many people in society, I too have a personal commitment to this dossier. I too know that care for a young disabled remains. You do your best to reverse all possible disadvantages and you also want to help build a good future for the person you are so close to. Study where it can; lead an independent existence; have work or otherwise be useful. Yeah, helping your loved ones get the best chance to make themselves useful and feel the same way. To feel like a valued part of society. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group understands the parents, the carers and the carers who have contacted us, but also the many reactions of people who use the Wajong and now only see the obstacles that this law brings. We have it in mind when we judge the law. It is only five years since there has been an attempt to amend the Wajong and the Participation Act, and can I say that again here? In this way, the unhappiness of the reduction of social work provision will lead to the development of a policy in which disabled people would be given more opportunities in the labour market. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group considers it important to participate in society and, above all, to have work for young and old. Unfortunately, we have to note that the policy, as well as the proposals made from 2014, 2015 onwards, has not worked. The Secretary of State now announces his arrival with a so-called broad offensive. I would like to invite her to go into that again today. In the meantime, she's already taking an advance on that broad perspective. She takes out a law that was already amended in 2015, 2016. Then we, as the CDA Group, wonder: why is she in such a hurry? Wouldn't it be better to make the total palette present and available? After all, you could make a much more appropriate assessment. There was an accumulation of changes: the last one in 2014, with the introduction in 2015, and the introduction of the Participation Act, with the original Wajong being phased out without a............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is the starting point: work must also be rewarding. Mr. Chairman. We may regret that it did not succeed at the time, but we now have to live with it. We need to see what else we can straighten out. Perhaps that would provide a solution to the problem by a wide-ranging offensive. I'd like to invite the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. We have all received penetrating letters, e-mails and phone calls from people from the Wajong target group; that's how I express myself. There are concerns about income and concerns about the maintenance of their jobs. I am not yet talking about getting a job, because we want more participation at this time when the labour market, especially for this group, is so under pressure. My colleagues Mr Van Pareren, Mr Ester, Mrs Sent, Mrs Stienen and everyone else have spoken about it. Mr. Chairman. There are also concerns about the guidance. I was explicitly asked about this by one of my letter writers. I spoke with them a little longer afterwards. The gentleman says: I can go to college now and I had that opportunity, but I didn't have any help in putting my education into practice afterwards. Enjoying education is one thing, but who's gonna stand up for you when things don't go smoothly? I have expressly complied with the request for this to be made here as well. Mr. Chairman. In addition to being able to make a better assessment in the context of a broad perspective, I think that some of the unrest would have been removed if there had been good information from the outset. That's what we asked for. The Secretary of State said in the written reply: I'm going to figure all that out with the UWV. I read something about this information in the reply. I quote: "The rules for young disabled people are becoming simpler. The current rules are now beneficial for some Wajangers and not for a large group." If you consider this to be information, it seems to me to be more of a good news show than the real information that this group is asking for, and that is why they are so worried. But not only the target group itself needs information and wants to know where it stands. The Members of Parliament also want that. We want to know, for example, what exactly are the groups that are improving on it and exactly which group is declining on it. I miss that overview. It cannot be given because it is always dependent on the personal situation. That's why we don't get that insight. However, when it comes to reducing the regime, for example, bringing the two months to 12 months, I see in the written documents that budgetary consequences can be properly calculated. Then I'm thinking, there's got to be some insight, right? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The proposed amendment to the legislation and the financial consequences for the people affected are difficult to understand. I'm just establishing that. But can I also add that the way in which the Wajong now functions is really not possible? This is often counterproductive in relation to the government's objective of increasing the employment rate of disabled people in the Wajong. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the assessment of the law, there is a point that is very close to our heart. What are we doing? The political primate is across the street. We are looking at legality, feasibility and enforcement, but I am also adding legal certainty. As far as legal certainty is concerned, I have a problem. I note that the abolition of a number of schemes introduces a new guarantee scheme. So you can basically say that that's why these people don't go backwards. I'm not talking about these new cases. But in that guarantee scheme you have to keep working the same number of hours, because otherwise the guarantee scheme will end. In the time frame in which we live, it is not always obvious. That's one. So that group isn't going backwards. The group that does decline and has no perspective is the group that is now in the continuing working arrangements. This is the group that received a promise in 2014 and 2015: "If you ensure that you always work 20% or more, you are entitled to the wml." For that group, that perspective is taken away. The Secretary of State then says: an expectation is not met. No, it's more. This group is really going backwards, because there is no guarantee for that. That doesn't apply. We would therefore urge the Secretary of State to at least ensure that we also offer this group a perspective, because we are taking something away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u27	I congratulate Mrs Oomen on her glowing speech. I know that this subject is very important to her. She probably also has a lot more experience in this file. As far as that's concerned, I've only just come to check it out. But I do have a question about the legal certainty she has just mentioned. I'm not quite sure which group you're talking about. On the one hand, Mrs Oomen says that the group is not covered by the guarantee scheme. I therefore take it that this is not the group that is already working and therefore falls into the guarantee scheme during the transition. She is talking about another group, for which the perspective is being taken away. Then the first part of the question is: which group exactly is she talking about? She also says that that group has been given a promise. Can she tell me where that promise was made and in what perspective? Has that been a promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u28	What I am talking about is the group that was promised in 2014 that if people work more than 20%, they will be eligible for the continued working arrangements. This proposal removes that perspective on this continuing working regime. This means that the group, which could still be included in that scheme in 2021, 2022 and 2023, no longer has that perspective. That group therefore has neither a guarantee scheme nor a perspective. That's the group I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u29	So you're talking about a group that's not working right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u30	Yes, I do. That is the group that currently works 20% or more. The people of that group thought that, if they worked for a few more years, they could be eligible for this continuing work scheme. They do not, however, get it, because it is blocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u31	Okay, well, at least I know which group they're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u32	Many thanks to Senator Oomen for drawing attention to the continuing work arrangements and the consequences of stopping. I am very curious how she assesses this in the light of Mrs De Bruijn's plea about the importance of a reliable government. How does it assess the termination of the continuing working arrangements against that background?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u33	I don't know if I've said that. I find that I'm not following my story anymore. What I have said is that it is not only the legal certainty of the government that is at issue here, but also that I could simply ask myself whether there are certain groups that would say: I hold the government liable, because it deprives me of a perspective that has been promised to me. That is why the CDA Group strongly asks the Secretary of State to see what we can do for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u34	I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u35	Thank you. Mrs. De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u36	It was clear to me which group was involved, but now Mrs Oomen continues. She says that that group can make a claim to that right. But, of course, we often make decisions here on the basis of which people's perspectives change. For example, I need only remind you of raising the retirement age. Those are also people who had a different perspective, but on the basis of decisions we are taking here, that is going to change. I can understand that we are making arrangements for people who are falling in income, for example, but I really need to chew on this. I just wanted to point out that we do that a lot here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u37	Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u38	I'd say chew on. I am not saying that I am going to initiate a procedure, but I could imagine that group saying: you promised me in 2014 and now you are not making that promise. 'Cause they did start those seven years. I have consulted Gerrit Terpstra, also very well known to you, who dealt with the previous Wajong here. He says: yes, we really thought that was a promise made to that group and that is why we have taken on a number of things that were less on sale. That's why I'm making a point of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u39	I'm gonna start the clock again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u40	That's it. Thank you. Work really has to pay off. You know what I find frustrating? I really hope you never make it again. There's a reasoning on your department that bothers me. All the overviews we received about the change in the system et cetera state: "Through the system of the Wajong, now and new, the total income, the income from labour and income support for someone in the Wajong who works with an hour limitation is higher than the statutory minimum wage for the number of hours worked." Yeah, pretty weedy. We must also take into account the fact that the working capacity of the target group we are talking about is less. In that case the hourly wage is indeed higher, because one only works twenty hours and still gets the full minimum, but this reasoning does not belong here. Work has to pay off. I did see in the file a very formal response from the Secretary of State. It was about a gratification at a copper service jubilee of a working man. That gratification could not be retained because of the formal wage concept. I have read the debate with the House of Representatives and understood from my colleague on the other side that they really want a solution. The same applies to the tax rebate, for example, for which this group of people is not eligible. There is also a reasoning behind this. When people work 30 hours, they really work 100 percent. I really wonder why there is no reduction in working hours. I'd like a comment on that, too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the review of the Disability Convention. However you turn it or turn it, it would have been better if the government had submitted the draft law earlier or had held consultations. But that's wisdom after all. I accept that the mindset might still be in the "we need to get used to" position, but for the future I expect better at that point. I expect consultations to take place when legislation like this is discussed. How easy can it be to talk to them about the checklist they made? Mr. Chairman. I don't know if I missed anything. No, that's not the case. I'm waiting for an adequate response from the government. I would urge the Secretary of State to do something about the problems we have touched on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u41	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I call Mr Gerbrandy. The request to Members is not to touch the microphones. They can cover any height. I'd rather not go up or down, because that's not what the microphones are made for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Schalk. He's gone to the bathroom now, I think. I hope he didn't leave the room because of my contribution. At least I can take this place now. Bill 35213 deals with the young disabled and the harmonisation of all kinds of schemes. I'm trying to limit myself to some reflections on this story. Even if I wanted to go deep, some things I don't even understand. Then I shouldn't. Therefore, I would like to say that no one can be opposed to us activating young disabled people, and that we want to clarify and harmonise the rules that are so complicated that even experts are difficult to understand, to make them clear and to harmonise. This is a very large group of Dutch people. There's 250,000 of them. That has been said several times in this Chamber. With a lot more family and everyone involved, that's a substantial number. Of course, the issues we need to deal with are very important. These people, the young disabled and the vulnerable, are in need of security, support and participation in our society. A civilization I begin by dealing with the most vulnerable. The government must be a shield for the most vulnerable. I think the Netherlands is a highly civilised country. So it has to be really well arranged for this group of young people. When this law was in place, the corona crisis wasn't there yet. There is now. It is incredibly difficult for all people, but especially for this group of people. If there had been no such crisis, I would have considered this proposal for the draft law with the same arguments. The crisis is adding up. This bill has good things to do: work must pay, Wajangers who are going to study, retain their rights, harmonise rules and take out the incomprehensible rules. Fine! Still, this bill is no good. Whole groups of Wajangers are getting worse financially. That is not acceptable to the Independent Senate Group. The following criteria should apply to us. No one is getting financially worse in the group we're talking about. Everyone must have the chance to earn at least 100% of minimum wage. Wajongers should also receive a job wage. This should be a basis for the development of this legislation. The Breman and the change in size must remain, perhaps under other terms, but they must be incorporated into the new law. The guarantee for which much has been talked about has gone from two months to twelve months. The OSF believes that this guarantee should go up to three years, given the circumstances now. Apart from these circumstances, however, it has been proven that after one year, on average, 42% of the Wajangers still cannot find a job. And as a fifth point: gratifications are not reduced. Those are the OSF criteria. Mr. Chairman. I know the Secretary of State as a socially motivated person, heartfeltly for the cause. The people who help her, too, are. They talk about it sometimes, but I want to show that I have faith in it. But I don't think this bill is fair. Nor do I think it is worthy of the target group and I do not think it is appropriate at times. That has something to do with corona, too. A fairly serious omission, which has been mentioned here several times, is that it has not been ex-ante reviewed by the Human Rights College. They have a checklist for this, as Mrs Oomen has just said. That requires of all of us, and certainly of the government, a certain mindset. I'll mention a few things from the treaty. Does this law ensure that all people with disabilities can be more independent and independent? Is that right? If you went backwards, would you be more independent? Another question in that treaty is: are all people with disabilities treated the same as people without disabilities? How does the measure ensure that people can actually participate in society? For example, I can mention a number of issues which I regret have not been examined before this proposal is drawn up. Mr. Chairman. I do not think this bill is sufficient. It may not fully comply with the UN Convention on Disabilities. It can be improved on important points. That is why I ask the Secretary of State and the Government to take this proposal back. I am, of course, waiting for your answer, but I could possibly table a motion to that effect in the second term. Moreover, I believe that, if we had a basic income, this problem could perhaps be dealt with quite differently. You say it's urgent. But it's like with friends: better no law than a bad law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u43	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. I call Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u44	Mr. Chairman. Approximately one in ten Dutch people have to live with a moderate or severe limitation. No one has chosen such a restriction. It happened to them all. Almost a quarter of a million Dutch people who have been or have been disabled since birth or at a young age, early in life, are among those with such a limitation. We're talking about that last group today. Many in that group are deeply concerned about the drafting of this law, given the many crying of distress that this Chamber and earlier the Chamber across the street, this bill for the rest of their lives. The reason for us today is to consider very carefully whether and to what extent this legislation can pass the test of criticism and to see if any shortcomings in the legislative proposal can be dealt with and resolved. Today, this Chamber must not only be reflective but above all creative in order to be able to act effectively. That is a challenge, but given the progress of the debate so far, I find it encouraging. I hope that, during and after the answer by the Secretary of State, that perspective will remain so. Mr. Chairman. We have committed ourselves as a country to improving the position of people with disabilities. In 2016, we ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That was an historic decision, as was emphasised by several political groups during the debate in this Chamber on ratification. All the political groups then agreed to ratify it, after the members of the House of Representatives had ratified it. Among them Mrs Van Ark, then spokesperson of the VVD in the Lower House on the UN Treaty. Today we see her here in a different capacity, but I assume with the same commitment to the subject she had then. The ratification in 2016 was already late, given that the Netherlands had already signed the 2006 treaty in 2007. During the debate in this Chamber on ratification, several parties also referred to it. This slowness still seems to characterize this dossier. In this way, to this House's displeasure, we are still on the late side when it comes to the further implementation of this treaty. For example, where the optional protocol to the Convention is concerned. That protocol makes it possible as a person to complain directly to the UN Committee which supervises the Convention. But the Dutch government informed this Chamber last year on request to enforce the Rijkswet required for ratification for the time being. The government, as Minister Blok wrote in May last year, was concerned that individual complaint law would strengthen the legal position of interested parties in a way that would be difficult to assess the financial and legal effects of social and economic policy. After our committees told J&V and VWS that that argument was really too weak, Minister Blok repeated his story in September last year: ratification of the protocol would give the supervisory committee the right to judge the Dutch government's trade. Such an opinion, according to the Minister, is not legally binding, but is authoritative and can therefore have an impact on public finances and the Dutch legal order. That is why the Minister, the Minister, prefers to look the cat out of the tree and awaits the Committee's case law in matters brought forward by citizens from countries that have already approved the protocol before deciding on our progress here. I think that is an economical Dutch reasoning, I might add. Can I ask the Secretary of State why we have such a wait-and-see attitude on this point after we had so enthusiastically ratified the Treaty at the time? Mr. Chairman. Lack of speed in this dossier, in my opinion, was also apparent from the strange refusal of this State Secretary to implement a request from members of the House of Representatives to submit the legislation in question first for advice to the Dutch regulator of the UN Convention, the College of Human Rights. According to the Secretary of State in the Lower House there was no time for that. You would say: then we make time for it, because the college has not come for nothing. Against this Chamber, the Secretary of State uses another argument not to consult the Dutch supervisor. Consultation of the Dutch supervisor is not necessary, as the Ministries of Social Affairs and VWS have already looked at the compliance of the legislation with the Treaty during the policy preparatory phase. That is a strange reasoning, which is very similar to "we at WC-Eend advise WC-Eend." After all, the UN Convention is not legally binding at this stage, but in no way non-binding, nor is it the role and task of the supervisor. Does the government agree? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Now that there has been an opinion from the College at the request of this Chamber, the question arises as to what the Secretary of State's previous commitment to consider a possible opinion on his merits. At first glance, the Secretary of State does not seem to want to have so many consequences, because she insists that the legislation is in line with the UN Convention, even though the College says that the government, unlike in recent legislation so far, will have to carry out a visible assessment of the draft legislation on its own initiative in the light of the UN Convention. In other words, the present legislative proposal lacks such a visible assessment. Can the Secretary of State explain once again her reasoning that there has been a review, although there is no mention of this in the explanatory statement? Mr. Chairman. According to the government's opinion, many successive measures take people with disabilities in the sense that they are partly or sometimes detrimental to them. The opinion also states that many of the measures that should be able to provide them with more direction and tailor-made work are not working properly in practice. However, in the opinion of the government, the opinion does not make it clear what measures the government is taking in part or in some cases potentially detrimental, so the Secretary of State is unable to do so. Do I understand her that well? Mr. Chairman. The FNV has informed us that it interprets the case very differently. She says on this point that the College says that this treaty is not in keeping with our obligations in the UN Convention. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction to this. Will she also explain to us what she thinks of the view of FNV, CNV, VCP, the National Client Council and Each one that the UN Convention prohibits the exchange of rights of one group at the expense of the rights of another group, because it concerns individual rights of people with disabilities? Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the individual rights of almost a quarter of a million Dutch people who receive a so-called Wajong benefit and whose interests are at stake in this harmonisation of the existing Wajong schemes. The changes proposed by the government to this bill directly affect them. It is good that, in preparation for this plenary debate, the Chamber gave a great deal of attention to the bill, even though the Secretary of State had hoped for a more rapid approval on this side of the Binnenhof. But in this Chamber we usually like good work more than half work. That fits in with a Chamber of Review. All things considered, it is becoming increasingly clear to my group that, although simplification of the complex regulation is certainly in place, the present proposal is incomplete, because it offers more disadvantages than benefits to those for whom the Wajang scheme is intended. In the various rounds, the Chamber questioned the government on the essential elements of this bill. As a result, there seems to be agreement between the Secretary of State and this Chamber on the desirability of harmonisation, but there is still disagreement between the Secretary of State and at least a substantial part of this Chamber on at least two crucial points. First of all, that is the deadline after which the guarantee scheme expires. Those young people who are subject to stricter regulations in this harmonisation law may be entitled to a guarantee scheme that prevents relapse, but only as long as they are able to retain their work or obtain new work within 12 months at the latest. It is nice that the House of Representatives corrected the government with its intention to allow the guarantee period to last only two months. Is the Secretary of State also pleased that we are talking in 12 months' time? If so, does it share our view that, certainly in the present time and in view of the ominous developments in the labour market, many Wajongers will be far too short for 12 months, and that further extension of the deadline, as advocated by the stakeholder organisations, should at least be considered? I just heard Mr Gerbrandy speak about a three-year term. Is there anything to be said for that? Is it fair to give such an important guarantee for such a short period of time? Secondly, there is the calculation of compensation. It is not easy to understand all the ins and outs of it. Not only does Mr Gerbrandy have problems with the complexity of this law. I think we all do. That in itself is a bad sign for good legislation. Three complex arrangements are replaced by a scheme which is still cleverly complicated, but, more importantly, which, according to the trade unions, is unfair to a large number of Wajongers, especially those dealing with hours limitation. According to unions and interest groups, they take away the bill in its current form every financial perspective. It hinders their ability to participate fully in our society. If that is the case, the bill in this form should not continue because of our obligations under the UN Disability Convention. In the end, this debate should clarify this. Mr. Chairman. The government admits that this harmonisation will reduce some of them. The trade unions and other interest groups have presented us with an alternative formula of calculation, which they say would make no one, or virtually no one, worse. According to its creators, this alternative formula is a combination of two components. First of all, the amendment adopted by the House of Representatives, Renkema/Gijs van Dijk, which compensates for a lower wage value and supplements the lower wage to the job wage. Secondly, it is a compensation for the days on which it is impossible to work because of time constraints. I have four questions for the Secretary of State. Is it true that the alternative formula causes no one or virtually no one to deteriorate? If so, what is the extra cost of implementing that formula on balance? There's a lot of shadowiness about that, but I think the damage isn't that bad. Thirdly, is the government prepared to reconsider the application of this alternative calculation formula? And finally, fourthly, how should we pour such an improvement into a vessel? This Chamber cannot amend. That has been said several times. The government, on the other hand, has the full freedom to renew a bill with us, just to use a strange and incorrect verb, but in this case effective verb. It is not a common approach, but one which is far too fair, if it would result in this Chamber being able to give its broad support to the legislative proposal. Or perhaps, if the Secretary of State recognizes the reasonableness of an adjustment, he will see other possibilities for improving the legislative proposal. As has been said, this Chamber must not only be reflective today, but above all creative in order to be effective. Mr. Chairman. We live in a time of great numbers. They are large numbers when it comes to people who are threatened by a mysterious virus, large numbers when it comes to taking necessary measures to combat the effects of the bug that surrounds them as effectively as possible and to minimise the socio-economic consequences. With the support of Parliament and this Chamber, the government is making available tens of billions of euros in the very short term. In particular, the possible impact on employment and the related security of existence are reasons for the government and Parliament to be deeply affected, I quote our Minister of Finance, in order to do what is necessary. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the threat to employment and the security of living of a quarter of a million Dutch people who are youngly handicapped by the current crisis will only increase and increase. Would that not be an additional reason for the government and for us, as I ask the Secretary of State, to make this harmonization proposal such that these quarter million compatriots would now experience the best possible protection from the government? If this helps to protect the employment and security of life of this group better, would it not be better to go deeper now than to be confronted with the further marginalisation of a group of citizens who have not been so affected and who are now very concerned about the rest of their lives? It is a group for whom finding and keeping work and acquiring a sober but doable income is an elementary part of a life that is ultimately, on balance, worthwhile, despite all the limitations that often make life so much more difficult for them than for non-disabled people. Mr. Chairman. For my group, organised solidarity with this particular group and at this very time is a touchstone for our civilisation. That is why my group looks forward with great interest to the reaction of the government, and to the creativity of the government and the First Chamber to resolve the existing problems, so that this Chamber will finally be able to give broad support to the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u45	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u46	Mr. Chairman. Over the past decades, the various Wajong schemes have spawned wild growth. 245,000 people with disabilities are now covered by Wajong regimes. For example, we know the so-called oWajong, the change in size, the Breman scheme and the Wajong 2010. In total, there are some 245.000 Wajong benefit recipients, of which 114.000 with work capacity. Of the 114,000 people with working capacity, more than 60,000 are at work. I base myself on the figures of the UWV Monitor Employment Rates 2019. So half of the people covered by the Wajong have employment opportunities. Of these, more than 80% are under 35 years of age. In short, it is a regulation that is vital for many, especially young people. It is understandable that the Secretary of State wishes to harmonise regulations in the existing Wajong Forest. And that is a good thing in itself. The principles of participation should also be promoted. Work, and more work, must pay. We understand the need to encourage study or training. In our group's view, these are also the good elements of the present Wajong harmonization proposal. In many young disabled people there is a fear that when they go to work, they lose their right to benefit, or can no longer revive the right in the future. This may in practice create obstacles to achieving the desired participation. The relaxation of the right to revive the Wajong in such situations is therefore a practical, participatory measure. However, this harmonization of the Wajong regulations will, in practice, also lead to a number of people falling between shore and ship, who will suffer without having any influence on them themselves. Like a number of previous speakers, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also received many e-mails with poignant examples. We have taken good note of this and concluded that a solution must be found. Especially since this harmonisation arrangement was adopted on 7 November 2019 by only a narrow majority, thanks to SGP and FvD, in the Lower House. Mind you, this was still in the precorona era. In the meantime, the situation on the labour market has deteriorated enormously and we may be talking about thirty-six situations. In practice, the young disabled with a Wajong benefit are one of the most vulnerable groups in this rapidly deteriorating labour market. Mr. Chairman. As mentioned above, more than 60,000 of the 245,000 Wajong beneficiaries participate in the labour market. Around 30% of this group, i.e. about 17,000 people, earns more than the statutory minimum wage. About 15,000 work more than 30 hours a week. We get the impression that the harmonization system affects this group in particular. It is also obvious that this group is the most affected by the loss of gratifications, such as end-of-year benefits. Surely that cannot be the intention if the principle is that more work should pay more? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour of the harmonization system, based on the number of rules created since the introduction of the Wajong in 1998. However, as has been pointed out, this harmonisation must not lead to a deterioration in financial achievements. We therefore conclude that there is no solution other than that today the Secretary of State promises this Chamber that it will be prepared to come up with a novella in which it will introduce guarantee schemes in such a way that there will be no deterioration in those who may be financially affected by the introduction of the underlying harmonisation law. We'd like to look forward to the Secretary of State's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u47	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. I call Mr Koffeman of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Physical meetings are very beneficial to parliamentary control, but without corona we would have been in the House of Representatives. If we had looked up, we would have seen a crowded public gallery where Wajongers had shown us the faces behind this change of law. Now that we're meeting without an audience, it's easy to forget who we're talking about here. The complexity of the legislative proposal and the jargon in the Chambers conceals the essence of the proposal, namely that it concerns the future of 250,000 young people. These are Wajangers with a face, a story, dreams and ambitions. The Animal Party welcomes the fact that we have seen many Wajongers who have united online in hashtags like #we are forgotten and #ditismy story. But as they say, "This isn't just any law, this is about me." We are talking about 250 000 young people with disabilities, who are very concerned about what we are discussing here today. Let us not forget their partners and parents; it is also about them today. Mr. Chairman. The Wajong is an employee insurance scheme intended for young disabled people. In this bill, all in one heap, but hopeless. The harmonised Wajong is based on the strictest of the three Wajong regimes, namely those of 2015. Of the 11 regulations, three remain. The Breman scheme, with which you could earn up to 120% of the minimum wage with a supplement to the UWV, disappears. The same applies to the change in size and the continuing arrangements. Everyone's gonna have the same size. This legislative amendment should simplify the indeed very complex Wajong legislation and regulations. Secondly, more work or study must be paid. Although this bill for a small group of Wajangers is beneficial, they are indeed going to earn a little more. This does not apply to a large group. The main problem that needs to be addressed is that today's legislative change means that Wajangers, regardless of training or work experience, will never earn more than the minimum wage and mostly not more than 70% of it. If they make more money, they'll be cut short. That's out of line. With this you condemn young people to what Erwin Dijkstra of Leiden University calls "lifelong hopelessness." The government considers 70% of the statutory minimum wage sufficient to live on. The Secretary of State continues to stress that the Wajong is a minimum level of social security, as is assistance. However, the assistance is a temporary safety net. With this amendment, Wajongers are sentenced to lifelong financial dependence on their partner or parents. "You can't motivate people out of their wheelchair," says Dijkstra in his blog. We agree with that. The Secretary of State is depriving Wajangers of a perspective to dream and develop. They want the same thing as their healthy peers: independent living, working, a relationship, maybe starting a family.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u49	I just heard you say that if Wajangers earn more than the minimum wage, they will be reduced in the new situation. What makes you say that? Explain yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u50	That is clearly the case. There is a group of Wajangers who are being cut down on the moment they earn more than minimum wage. Unless I'm wrong about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u51	You may be mistaken, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u52	Okay, I'll check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u53	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u54	I'd like to quote Wajanger Lotte de Bitter, who is very visually impaired but nevertheless climbed up from the vmbo to the university and achieved a bachelor's degree with a lot of effort. She wrote in a letter in the AD: "Why have I set aside everything in recent years when it is now established that I will never rise above the minimum wage? Why am I being dealt with on something I really want, but I can't? I'm probably working for another 40 years, but with what intent? (...) I dream of buying a cottage and not turning every euro around. It touches me deeply when I realize: this is it. Everything I've worked for is so wiped off the table." What does the Secretary of State say to her? What's the point for Lotte to stay ambitious? Why did Lotte study if it didn't pay off financially? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Harmonisation of the Wajong schemes may lead to a group falling back on it in the future. The Secretary of State has set up the guarantee scheme for this purpose. If you work, when the new rules enter into force, you get at least what you now have, by a guarantee amount. Even if you lose your job and find work within a year, you keep the same income that was higher under the old rules. The most favourable outcome is therefore, and that is positive. We also support the fact that a Wajanger can be entitled to this guarantee until retirement. But the problem lies with the person who loses his job and doesn't find new work within a year. Research shows that quickly finding a job for this group of people is very difficult. In the 2018 UWV Monitor Employment Rates, we read that more than 40% of the Wajongers who lose their jobs are still unemployed after a year. Wajongers work more often than ordinary workers under a temporary contract. This means again and again the stress of applying, plus the threat of a lower benefit. Especially now that the Netherlands is entering an economic crisis and the unemployment rate has increased dramatically due to corona, the Secretary of State should be supportive and extend the term of one year. The millions and even billions of aid packages for the business community are all over you, but the Secretary of State is okay with many Wajongers having to live up to 70% of the statutory minimum wage for the rest of their lives. The Party for Animals finds that unacceptable. Is the Secretary of State prepared to postpone this bill until the corona crisis is over? If not, is it prepared to extend at least the guarantee period from one to two years? Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party is surprised that the government has not been prepared to include the opinion of the Human Rights College on the rights of people with disabilities in this opinion in March of this year. Three points in the opinion stand out. Firstly, there are many successive measures that affect people with disabilities from an early age and are, in part or sometimes, detrimental to them, while many of the measures are not working properly in practice. Secondly, the College states that the complexity of the existing and planned measures that they take is high. The college writes that in order to understand the new Wajong rules, you must at least have the level of an HBO case manager. So no wonder the new rules lead to a lot of stress, unrest and fear among Wajangers. Thirdly, the College states that workers with disabilities should not be discriminated against in terms of salary due to reduced working capacity due to their disability. However, most Wajongers can never make enough hours to reach the minimum wage. There are few Wajongers who can work full-time. Most Wajangers work 25.5 hours a week. That's their maximum. Then why don't they earn the minimum wage? The College considers this to be contrary to the UN Disability Convention in force in the Netherlands since 2016. But the Secretary of State refuses to review the amendment to the UN Convention and to follow the advice of the College.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u55	Mr. Chairman. I hear the word "discrimination" fall within the Wajong regimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u56	May I ask the chairman to stop the clock?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u57	It's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u58	Do you not think it is discriminatory that, if you have studied and are going to work at Blokker because that is the job you are offered, you will receive your job pay according to what you have studied for, while another Wajanger, who has not studied and does the same job, will receive the minimum wage? That is the result of the change in size. Isn't that discrimination? It's in the current regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u59	There is a great difference between discrimination and an unjust situation. An unjust situation can occur anywhere, but in equal circumstances someone who is healthy and has studied has the opportunity to escape from that job at Blokker. A lot of people in the Wajong don't have that kind of opportunity. Discrimination has a lot to do with unequal treatment in an equal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u60	I don't quite follow that explanation. I'm talking about discrimination within the Wajong. There is no change in size within the regular labour market. It only exists within regimes like the Wajong. I'm talking about two Wajangers. One of them went to college, the other one didn't. They both do exactly the same work and they both make the same hours. Yet one earns a higher income, because of a certain formula in the Wajong, while the other earns a lower income. There is a level playing field. They're in the same arrangement. I call that discrimination, too. You seem to be judging that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u61	I don't necessarily judge that differently. At the moment when you are talking about what you are saying, I think it is right to tackle this form of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u62	That is one of the things this harmonisation does, because it takes out that weird sawing tooth within which this happens. We talked about it this morning, but this is happening in the context of the change in size.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u63	It is not that we consider the change to be wrong in all respects. There are quite good elements in the change, but there are also some injustices in it, and we would like to see them out. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u64	Please continue your speech. I'm turning the clock back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. There's no other way. The Landelijke Clientenraad has presented an alternative proposal in which a certain development actually leads to a higher income. The minimum wage becomes the lower limit, the starting point for wage development and not the ceiling. That way, it pays to grow on. This alternative proposal is in line with the UN Convention on Disabilities. The UWV considers the proposal feasible and yet the Secretary of State is still refusing to take over this proposal. Can she explain why? One more point of attention. Today we are mainly talking about Wajongers with training and the ability to work, partly or partly. Let us not forget the vast group of Wajangers who have no vision of work at all. They have to live their whole lives on welfare benefits. For them, they have little or no prospect of realizing their dream. What does the Secretary of State say to them? I want to end with a quote from Wajanger Hidde Brugmans, policy officer at the Ministry of EZK on the harmonisation of the Wajong: "Most young people with disabilities are highly motivated and motivated to work. Our experiences mean that we are bold, creative and solution-oriented and we do not want to be found pathetic and not hold our hand. We want to contribute to society and be fully understood at work and build a good life. We ask for support for this." That is why work for this group must always pay and we ask for a revision of the bill so that a young person who makes the most of himself and sacrifices to build a career has a perspective on a fair income above the social minimum. Wajongers deserve our support in this respect and hence our opposition to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u66	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Finally, Mr Schalk, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, will have the floor in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I was allowed to trade with Mr. Gerbrandy. I checked that against the Pareto criterion. Now that he is still in the Chamber, I think the optimum is achieved, so as far as I am concerned fine. Mr. Chairman. Once there was a girl who came from special education to do an internship at my office at the time. She worked in the household service and also worked in a few other places. One day I asked her if she was having a good time. The answer was beautiful: I like it here, because at least here nobody gets mad at me. In the meantime, that woman has been working in that office for more than fifteen years with a Wajong benefit. I can tell wonderful stories about what she meant in an office full of all kinds of employees. She brought with her a few values, such as uninhibited and unconditional loyalty, which you can be jealous of. Such an experience alone is ample reason to see how people with Wajong benefits can be helped to participate more and better. In this sense, this is an interesting legislative proposal, also because there is a need for a balance between security of living and participation in employment. Of course, my group is also aware of the difficult points in such a legislative proposal. My first point, for example, is to clarify the issue of hours. Can the Secretary of State explain why determining the extent of the hours limit in practice would be so difficult? Why, for example, cannot the part-time factor be taken into account in the employment contract? This question is all the more pressing because the fixing of the hours limit is apparently not applicable in the Wajong, although it has been included in the WIA with similar objections. My second and most important point for my first term is the guarantee period. The aim of this guarantee provision is to maintain incomes, including under the new law, for example when Wajangers switch jobs. This point has also been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives. Of course, it is not the intention to repeat this whole debate, but in today's situation it is important to look back. The bill initially indicated a two-month guarantee period. Of course, that was very complicated, because only 20% of the Wajangers found new work within two months, while the figures from the Employment Monitor show that only 68% find work within two years. Hence, the House of Representatives began to ask for that term to be extended to three years. The cost of this was estimated at €84 million. It was a bit like negotiating, because amendments asking for a two-year guarantee, with a cost of 67 million, finally accepted an amendment which states in the amended legislative proposal that the renewal period of the guarantee amount is extended to one year. Apparently, a large majority considered this important, despite the cost of EUR 47 million. But that was in November 2019. In the meantime, the situation has changed radically. The corona crisis has enormous economic consequences. As a result, Wajangers' position has deteriorated significantly. At the time of the change of law in the House of Representatives, i.e. at a time of high economics, there were 60,000 Wajongers on the side. Not just for a while, but for a long time. I can only guess what the consequences of the current crisis will be, but it will be fierce. It is precisely now that the legislator needs to take account of the changed situation. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore how it can respond to the vulnerable in the labour market. The fraction of the SGP sees three concrete routes. The first is the usual and easy-to-appoint route, which is the route of short-term evaluation. That route is still very vague at the moment, but it is important for the future. Is the Secretary of State prepared to carry out an assessment of the guarantee period at the latest two years after the adoption of the law? I just think that everyone realizes that if we do, there will be huge problems for people who may have lost their jobs during that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u68	Would you like to interrupt, Mrs. Sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u69	I think the answer has already been given in my speech. The second route I can think of is that of accompanying or temporary policy. My group is thinking of the urgent legislation in the context of the crisis in which accompanying policies can be incorporated. This is true of the time when the crisis is continuing. How do you formulate how long the crisis will last? This could be for example for the period when we are working on all kinds of measures in the field of employment and occupation to get out of the intelligent lockdown. That could be an option. Anyway, you could try to describe that. My question is at least: what possibilities does the Secretary of State see in accompanying and temporary policies? The third option is to look at the introduction date. It will be difficult to cut the bill into parts. The question then is whether the entire legislative proposal will have to be postponed. The budgetary envelope is limited to the whole of the corona measures. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether postponement is an option, so that this group of vulnerable people is not confronted with the proposed measures at the heart of the corona crisis? I am well aware that this brings with it a huge disadvantage, namely that the good elements of the law are all being pushed forward. Mr. Chairman. For the SGP Group, it remains clear that there is a need for a balance between security of living and participation in employment. This law can help, but it is important to settle the situation created by the corona crisis just as well. Of the three options I mentioned, the second, that of the accompanying or temporary policy, is the most direct and clear. However, I am very curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State and consider a second-term motion on that second option. But, of course, I am very interested in the answers given by the Secretary of State. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u70	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mrs. Sent. Mr. Schalk will stand still for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u71	It is very nice how Mr Schalk draws attention to the current situation and how he presents various options. I wanted to question him critically about the evaluation after two years, but fortunately he himself thought that this is actually mustard after the meal, given the current period of the guarantee amount. I'm still wondering. He started his input with the fact that there are also other options, regardless of the crisis, where the period of the guarantee amount is concerned. That two-year periods, three-year periods, have been suggested. He also indicated in his contribution that about 40% or 50% of the Wajongers are unable to find a new job within a year and therefore cannot use the guarantee amount. Twelve months is an improvement over two months, I agree with him, but how does he judge those 12 months against the background that even in normal circumstances it is complicated for a very large part of the Wajongers to get a new job within a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u72	Mr President, that is a clear question. I'm going to repeat the figures I found a little more precisely. The proposed two months provided about 20% of Wajongers with a new job within two months. That's not about anything. I'm sorry to put it this way, but 80% just isn't working yet. One year, according to the Labour Force Survey, 68% of jobs are created. So there is 32% not yet at work. That's pretty intense. But this was, of course, investigated in the time of high economics, when we said, "you know, 68%..." Going from two months to a year costs 47 million. I think the Secretary of State had to pick it out somewhere else and tuck it in here. Two years would have cost 67 million, 20 million more. At that time, such a huge shift was quite intense. At the present time, I dare to imagine this very easily, because we are all just working very hard to see how we can balance the labour market and how we can provide additional support for these people, who are still a little heavier than most of the workers who are now on the streets. Well, I'd be happy to have an extra 20 million, in that big picture. I think that, as a society, we should be willing to do that. I hope this is the beginning of an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u73	Sure, and I could count on that, too. I have another question about the fact that it was necessary in the House of Representatives to table an amendment to get that two-month period to twelve months. Then what is the value of a motion in the First Chamber on this subject? How does Mr Schalk see the follow-up to that motion, should it receive a majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u74	The motion is, I think, the only option, if you want to get this done in the short term, without losing the benefits of the law. You can of course also... I believe that I shared this in an interrupting debate with Mr Van Gurp: if we say 'this must be settled first in the law', then we get a novelle. Then it's gonna take a long time. In order to get sufficient support for this in the Lower House, you should arrange, I suspect, that there will be in that novelle at what time the period goes to two years and when it falls back again. In fact, that could be very easy to regulate in all those emergency laws that we are now getting and which contain all kinds of elements that relate to the labour market. A motion of this kind could therefore help us and the Secretary of State to give a bit of clarity to the Wajongers in the short term. I also get quite a few e-mails and I don't like to say: Boy, I've had a lot of them. But a lot of those e-mails are a bit about this term. In the Lower House, my group, together with the Group of the Forum for Democracy, managed to turn this into a year. Here we can try to zoom in with the motion on a little customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u75	I have two brief follow-up remarks. Firstly, the government can reject a motion. We also see that the recent Kox motion on rents has not yet received a response from the cabinet. The second point is that new legislation must also be accepted by the Lower House, so that certainty that we as the First Chamber want does not offer a motion at all. I would like to draw Mr Schalk's attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u76	I'll give you a brief response, Mr. Chairman. The example of Mr Kox's motion, which has still not been answered, has also become a real political issue that is getting quite heavy. I think that Mr Kox is gradually gaining the full support of the House of Representatives as well. Perhaps that is possible with such a motion, because the House of Representatives can of course see that it was actually a kind of negotiating position at that time. Is it gonna be three years? I think that was a proposal from the SP in the Lower House. The Labour Party, together with GroenLinks, proposed that I am not sure for two years. In the end, it's been one year. It's been a little weighing. I estimate that if there is a good proposal from the Secretary of State, the chance that the House of Representatives will also say yes to it is more than 50%. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u77	I would like to touch briefly on the same point. Mr Schalk said, pointing out to me too, that the disadvantage of a novelle is that the whole route lasts half or three quarters of a year longer, and in a novelle things do not go for what you are for. An alternative is a motion, but it has the weakness we are discussing. Is a possible alternative even to allow the law to enter into force, subject to the disputed point? We can then take time for an additional proposal on this point, or we can give the Secretary of State himself the opportunity to anchor something in supplementary legislation. Then you have the good of one and the power of another. I'm not a state judge, but it's a little bit of thinking out loud. How are we gonna figure out what we all want to take care of ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u78	I'm not a state judge either, so as far as we're concerned, we can shake hands with each other, if it weren't a corona era. That's not what I'm doing. If the Secretary of State comes up with very good creative ideas that improve the idea I had, then of course I am open to that. But I wonder if this bill on such a subject can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u79	You are replying to what I just said to you, so we are in agreement on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u80	I would like to ask Mr Schalk a question. He indicated that, given the corona conditions, deferment of this law might help the Wajongers. What kind of term is he thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u81	I'm not asking for a reprieve for this law. At least, with the motion I announced, I was more concerned with stretching that warranty clause fort the time being. If you decided to postpone this law because we're in the corona crisis, then you have to wait until after the corona crisis. I wonder if we should want to, because then you'll lose everything that's good in this law. With regard to the point of the guarantee period I mentioned, I imagine that you are not making the best of it, but you are offering the space up to two years or so, rather than up to a year. For me, that's negotiable. For example, you can say 18 months or three years. Anything can be done, but you have to keep thinking a little in proportion. Then we know that a year longer would cost up to 20 million more. That's to be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u82	Then I have another question through the chairman. If we're gonna do it your way, can't we just do it right at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u83	Good is always better than less good, but then there will have to be a proposal for how it can be done even better than this. I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u84	You may be able to process that in your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u85	Yeah, but do you have any suggestions that might make it even better? You haven't seen my motion yet. I will perhaps come up with that later, but if that motion can be improved, of course that is always good. When it comes to making two years three years, five years is even better and then ten years is even better. In other words, try to make it reasonable and manageable, also for the Secretary of State, because he will have to defend it in a few places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u86	Mr De Vries, for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u87	I regret that Mr Schalk is not in a position to set a deadline within which he wants everything to be arranged, because that seems to me to be concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u88	In my motion as I have now prepared it, I mention two years instead of that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u89	I have already said in my term that this Chamber must be creative in this debate today, apart from being reflective. That must, of course, be within the limits of our powers, but let us not forget that we are in a debate with the representative of the government. What this Chamber can't do, the government can. In the last article, which deals with the entry into force of this bill, I read that the articles of this law, with the exception of Article 2, enter into force at a time to be decided by KB, which may be different for different articles or parts thereof. Can I ask Mr Schalk whether he is asking me the question to the Secretary of State or perhaps could use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u90	As far as I am concerned, that could be very good, but I must remind myself of what we would lose if we were to postpone the whole guarantee provision. Isn't that a problem for those who could take account of the new law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u91	No, but I point out that different parts of the law could enter into force at a different time. That would then be the moment when the Chamber and the Government would have come to a solution to the problems identified. That is a creative solution within the constitutional limitations of this Chamber. If we agree, I'm even more curious about how the Secretary of State intends to look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u92	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I mentioned three options. If a fourth or fifth is added, perhaps the Secretary of State has three more in the suitcase, so to speak, I am very interested in that. It's not my concern that there should be a motion from my hand or from someone's hand. The point is that we want to provide clarity and also a little more certainty to a very large group of people who are very worried about this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u93	I was pleased to hear Mr Schalk say that at the moment he does not see much point in postponing the legislative proposal, in the long term, in terms of its benefits. I hope he will not be changed by Mr Kox's words. About any two years. He supports that. The crisis situation suddenly means that people's perspective may be different from what we thought about it when your party's amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives to go to those 12 months. I can imagine. He says: I can imagine extending that guarantee to two years. But at the time when we adopt the law, it will enter into force on 1 January 2021. Only after 1 January 2022 have those 12 months expired for the first group which may have lost its job at that time. Then we'll be a year away. Have you thought about any conditions for this? Those 12 months were in the labour market of that time. Can you imagine that if we see in the course of 2021 that the labour market has not changed for this group, in fact that two years do not need to be stretched? Such conditions may be included in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u94	Yes, the question is, of course, whether I should include that in the motion. I indicated that you could think about the period in which you were going to apply that. That will be related to the period we're in the corona crisis. I have no idea if that's gonna take another six months or a year and a half. Like Mrs De Bruijn, I think it will take a very long time. But this bill was in the Lower House in November and we've been six months. Six months seems long, but is short. In other words, the moment that a creative way is devised to somehow extend that warranty period for the people where it really is, you can reverse it when the corona crisis is all over. By the way, I do not think that once the crisis is over, we will be completely through our economic crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u95	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u96	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the law 35213, Amendment of the law on disability provision for young disabled persons and some other laws relating to further activation of the participation of young disabled people and the harmonisation of the various regimes of Wajong. Before we go any further, I have a brief household announcement for Members. For the record, I would like to point out that 1.5 metres is a larger distance than you are sometimes tempted to think. A chat with your colleague often falls within 1.5 metres and that is not the intention. That goes for me, too. I would therefore urge you to take this into account and to address each other as well, and to keep a sufficient distance from your colleagues and the staff during the sitting. I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u97	This cathedral is narrower, Mr. Chairman. I was used to losing piles of paper. Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the speedy implementation of this proposal, despite the difficult circumstances at present. I want to tell you that I really appreciate that. The bill we are discussing today, we often say it's about a vulnerable group of people, for whom we want to be there as a government. I also heard this from the contributions of many of your Members of Parliament: at the same time, they are people who are certainly vulnerable in the labour market, but who are often very powerful in what they can do, in what they want and in the wishes and motivation they have. It doesn't affect their individual power. But in the labour market, it is a vulnerable group of people who, like everyone else, seek recognition, appreciation and independence and want to contribute to our society as they wish. That is precisely why the handling of this bill requires the greatest care. That care was reflected in the treatment in the Lower House, but also before today's treatment, in the contacts I had in the run-up to this treatment with your senators and in the questions that have been asked today. As Mr Schalk said in his first sentence, it is actually a debate of values. That's how I feel when I talk about this law and when I talk about people who are dealing with this law. It is a debate that is really about values. In addition, of course, it is a very uncertain period, which certainly also affects this group of people. Many of you have remembered that. As far as I'm concerned, that's an extra important notion. Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would also like to take the opportunity to look back briefly, because it is always useful to know where you come from. Before I go into the substance of the legislative proposal, I would like to place the changes we are discussing today in a historical context. For that I have to go back quite far, initially to the seventies. In 1976, the welfare state was in the scaffolding. At that time, a basic provision was created for all people in the Netherlands who were unable to work. That was the so-called General Disability Act, or AAW, because of course there had to be an abbreviation for that. From now on, benefits for young disabled people came at the level of the social minimum. That was groundbreaking, because the entire pre-war social insurance system was replaced with the AAW. With the introduction of the Wajong, a separate scheme for young disabled people was created in 1988. Back then, responsible Secretary of State and former member of this Chamber Frank de Grave stated that the scheme belongs in the heart of the welfare state. During the course of treatment, care was taken to point out the need to stimulate participation, motivated by the idea that you should always offer people a perspective. It took until 2006 before the UWV was given the task of drawing up a reintegration plan for Wajangers. With the entry into force of the Wajong 2010, activation continued, making it a condition for income support. Mr. Chairman. At the end of the last century it was chosen to maintain the rules of the so-called oWajong. That decision was made within the prevailing thought of that moment. Things have changed since then. I really see that it has happened with the best of intentions, but new rules combined with transitional law, and sometimes the pressure or will to regulate something for specific groups, have led to a very complex Wajong. As a result, some arrangements are beneficial to people and not to other people. That for some people the arrangement works, but that other people have the idea that the human size and sometimes the logic have simply been lost. Worse still, the complexity of the current system also creates barriers for people with a vulnerable position in the labour market to participate. I make a lot of conversations about this and I make a lot of work visits. I talk a lot to Wajangers and I get lots of letters and lots of e-mails, just like you. They're touching me. I got a letter from a parent of a son with a disability with a Wajong benefit. The son has a temporary part-time job with an income of about €300 per month. On the basis of the current rules, his full income is deducted from the benefit. As a result, he doesn't spend a penny on the time and commitment he devotes to his work. I think that the indignation of the parent is right. Another letter comes from a Wajanger who wants to get to work, but who still chooses not to, out of fear of being cut off on the benefit. Because working doesn't pay for her. It's causing uncertainty. And then the Wajanger who chooses to attend education: the Wajong benefit is reduced so much within the current scheme that he can no longer live on his own. It makes studying unattractive. Mr. Chairman. The more letters I read and the more conversations I made, the more I became convinced that we are no longer able to go on at the present time. At the same time, I realise that not all the arrangements for people are as unfavourable as I have just outlined. In shaping the new rules on income support, I therefore looked for a balance. This bill is not only the result of a long and careful preliminaries. I'll tell you more about it later. It is also the result of a balancing act between income security and incentive; incentive to participate in our society. It concerns a very diverse group of people. So today we are not just talking about a social and a human issue for which we need to find a blueprint, because it is not there. It is about a group of people who are as diverse as the size is large and who are mixed in composition, background, possibilities and limitations. For this reason, I felt that I should not only look at what these rules mean for Wajongers with a high level of education at work, but also at what they mean for Wajongers who can work but still do not do so, cannot do so or experience those thresholds to do so. That's about 60,000 people. Several MPs have indicated that the environment of the people who have a Wajong benefit also counts. These 60,000 people also have family, a partner, dreams and wishes. They also need a system which is much more understandable and which allows them to participate. Following a critical review of the Wajong, this conclusion was also drawn in the policy review in 2017. In making this law, I have constantly asked myself the question out loud: if we leave everything to the right now, do we not accept that those 60,000 people, who are not yet working and are on the sidelines, are missing the boat? I want to work with this bill and make more work pay. I want Wajangers to get more security to fall back on their benefits. I realize that there is indeed a group of people who may have a negative effect on this law. That is why we have set a guarantee amount. I shall come back to that in detail later. Mr. Chairman. I said this as the first sketch. Following on, I would like to go into more detail on a number of issues that came back to your Chamber's questions: the new rules on income support, the guarantee amount and overarching questions, such as the Wajong and the covid crisis, communication, implementation and a number of other questions. I'd like to start with the income support rules. Many e-mails have been sent and many calls have been made about this. The discussions on the legislative proposal therefore focus on the new rules on income support. I understand that very well. I also understand very well that people are concerned about the possible consequences of this bill and that there has been unrest about it. Almost all of your MPs have drawn attention to this. Before I go into the questions of the Chamber about the new rules on income support, I would like to reflect a little more on the complexity of the current system. I therefore come to the choice of this harmonised regime for all Wajangers. From the first phase of the "Work in progress," an analysis of the implementation by the Tax Administration, the UWV, the SVB and DUO, it became clear that by stacking rules, their interpretation to citizens is the child of the account. This has to do with transitional provisions; rules that stand in the way of each other. The same goes for the Wajong. I want to make the new rules on income support more logical, fairer and more explainable. At the request of Mrs Sent and Mr Ester, I will go into this explanation. With the new rules, there is always an increase in total income when the Wajanger starts working or working more. This is an increase in income compared to the basic benefit, which is at the level of the social minimum. I am very keen to say, also in the direction of Mr Koffeman, that there is no maximum. I have received a lot of reports about this from people who say: I will never earn more than the minimum wage. I would like to say here: that is not the case. The Wajong knows no maximum. By the way, I would like to say honestly that there is a very large group of people in the Wajong who will always work around the wml level in terms of income. That's not because the rules say that, but that has to do with the work. There's definitely no maximum. The benefit is based on the social minimum. That is the starting point, because that is also the basis of our wider social security system. The total income of people working from the Wajong will therefore always exceed the social minimum. With the new rules, Wajongers with working power retain €0.30 of each euro they earn. 70% of the income is deducted from the benefit. This benefit is personal, knows no partner test and no power test and is individual for you. Wajongers working with pay dispensation retain more than €0.30 of each euro. In this way they will be compensated for their reduced wage value and their distributed wages. In addition, we significantly reduce the current number of 11 schemes. I think it is important to be able to introduce simplifications with the maintenance of protection. If you summarized it, you would say: you have a group of people who are now working and who are getting protection by the guarantee amount................................................................................................................................................ And yes, it may also be that your situation is changing. We will come back to that in detail later on in the guarantee scheme. But even now, when you lose your job, you fall back on the base Wajong. Mr Ester and Mrs De Bruijn also asked me to look again at the Wajangers who are making progress, the people who will not experience change and the people who are going down. What are the plausible effects and what is expected to be the distribution between these three groups? I would like to begin with the notion that it is not possible to indicate at individual level how many people would receive a higher or lower Wajong benefit or benefit on the basis of the guarantee amount on the basis of the new rules. It doesn't lack the ability to calculate things, but we need their personal situation a day before the bill comes into force in order to be able to estimate what this means for their income. I would also like to stress in advance that for those who do not benefit from the new rules, the transitional regime with the amount of the guarantee has been set up. But then, having said that, basically the effects on the different groups. There are groups for which the current rules are negative. For nearly 30,000 Wajongers in the Wajong 2010 it pays to work only if they earn at least 20% of the minimum wage. For someone who can only work with pay dispensation, that can really be quite a challenge. In addition, almost 30,000 oWayoung people who are on the side of the sawing tooth suffer. That's the methodology that puts you in a different disability class if you make more money and then you get worse. This causes a lot of uncertainty about the effect of working on total income. So these people have uncertainty about what this means to them. For almost 60,000 working Wajangers there is mainly uncertainty about the effect of more work or about what it means when you get a raise. For the nearly 45,000 workers, the saw tooth can cause a slight increase, or sometimes even a one-time increase in income, to result in a sharp fall in total income.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u98	There was a word I didn't get right. It was a few sentences earlier. Something about "business" or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u99	The saw tooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u100	Please continue your speech, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u101	Do you want me to explain the saw tooth? Don't you have to? You don't have to. I had indicated that almost 30,000 oWawgs who don't work are affected by the sawing tooth. Because that method allows you to get into another ao-class if you make more money and then go down on it. It's causing confusion. Mr. Chairman. I would like to outline two more situations of people for whom the current rules are negative. Those are the 2,000 Wajongers in the continuing work scheme, who do not see an increase in their income as they go to work more, and people in the Wajong 2010 who are going to study. They go back from 75% or 70% of the minimum wage to 25% of the statutory minimum wage. Then there are groups for whom the perspective changes. Depending on the individual situation, this may also be a decline, as Wajangers in the study scheme and in the work scheme might have expected to flow into the continuing work scheme in the future. If this bill comes into force, it will no longer be possible. In reply to Mrs Oomen's questions, which had also been raised, I will say a few words about them later. In the coming years, it will be around 6,200 people in 2021, around 5,200 people in 2022 and about 3,650 people in 2023 who will move from the working scheme to the continuing working scheme as they turn 27. About 39% of the people in this group, about 6,000 people, work. For the Wajangers in this group, who work, the UWV determines a guarantee amount based on the working arrangements. They can therefore no longer claim the continued working arrangements. For the Wajangers who are not yet in work, the likely income development is changing. They do not receive supplementary benefits on the basis of the continuing work scheme, but on the basis of the new income support scheme. Then again, it depends on the personal situation, on the working time, wage value and income, or the harmonised income system, in terms of possible foreseeable income trends, leads to progress or a decline compared to the inflow into the continued working scheme in the Wajong 2010. I have to say that the income position of this group is very diverse, ranging from an income from labour that is less than 20% of the minimum wage to an income from labour of 80% to 90% of the minimum wage. Mrs Stienen was in line with Mr Ester's question. She said, "What can you do for people who are really in danger of going backwards?" There was a little interrupt debate. You can see now, in the current situations, that people who do the same work from different schemes get a different amount of money for the same work. That is the situation that we do want to change. For young disabled people who have to deal with a change in size, it also depends on whether they are moving forward or backward on the basis of the new rules. At least the amount of the guarantee doesn't mean they're going backwards. The new rules will apply to those people who expected to use the change in size in the future. The current system I referred to just now in the oWajong ensures that an oWajonger who has completed HBO or university and works at an organization gets a higher benefit than an oWajonger who has not completed higher education and works at the same organization. I believe that the level of education should be reflected in wages and not in supplementary benefits. That is the reason why, in the harmonised scheme, we rely on the income earned. I think it is important to deal specifically with the consequences of job losses in the current situation, because even now, people who lose their jobs fall back on the basic benefit. In that case, it's not because of the new rules, but because of the loss of a job. In the current situation you have no guarantee of the same income if you have a new job and thus also the same additional benefit. Mrs Oomen asked me about the working arrangements and the continuing working arrangements. She asked whether we are not at risk of depriving people of an acquired right by removing that continuing working regime. And there's a group of Wajangers who now, because of their age, because they're under 27 years old, or because they're influxing in 2014, they don't have access to the ongoing work scheme. I was just talking about this. This group, like other Wajongers who are going to earn more than 20% at the time when they start working after the legislative proposal enters into force, can no longer claim the continued working arrangements. Then the new rules apply to them. However, the future right to continued working arrangements is too undetermined to be able to speak of an acquired right. Whether or not there is a right to the favourable rules of the continuing working arrangements also depends on whether work is being carried out at the time of influx. I've just outlined the group: 39% of those people work. And if you don't work, you won't be hung up on that 100% wml. But she's right that the perspective for this group is changing. And on the one hand you can say that it is inherent in amending legislation; it happens more often. I would also like to say that it is wrong to deprive this group of acquired rights. There is also the amount of guarantee for persons who could deteriorate as a result of the entry into force of the law. But I can tell from her words that it is important that we can offer people perspective. I'm sensitive to that, too. It's not as digital as you'd think at first sight. This bill offers, even for people who are in the working arrangements, a real perspective: in the first seven years before you would come to the continuing arrangement. The threshold of 20% wml, after which work only starts to pay, is dropped. So from the first euro you work for, you're getting ahead of it. And the harmonised income system also reduces the reduced wage value. So almost all Wajongers who work and are in the working schedule are moving forward with this bill. This legislative proposal offers a perspective on security. You can also study without a discount on the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u102	I'm not threatening to understand. Suppose someone started working in 2015 and works for 21%. It has built up six years since 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, and thinks: hey good, in 2021 I'll be in that ongoing working arrangement. That means minimum wage law by 21%. Is he going backwards now or is he not going backwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u103	That is what I have indicated: it does not go backwards because, compared to the day he gets it, something is taken away from him, but I agree with Mrs Oomen: if you have the perspective that you get 100% wml, it feels that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u104	It doesn't just feel that way; a promise has been made. And that gentleman or lady has been working on fulfilling that promise for six years, and then making sure he gets minimum wage up to his retirement age, if nothing happens. If he's gonna work half tomorrow, or if he's gonna work 10%, he won't, but he's had the promise. He or she is trying to fulfill that contract. This is now being dealt with. And Mrs. Secretary of State says, "No, it's just a promise; it's just a future perspective, that he doesn't have any more." I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u105	I am also trying to make connections here, because I understand very well the concerns that people have and which are also expressed by you as senators. So I may need a bit of a long run, but I just want to be very honest that it's true that these people have a different perspective with the new law if they don't work yet. I'm gonna ask your permission to go back to the history of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u106	Go ahead, Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u107	The Secretary of State says "they don't work," but they do work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u108	I understand you have another additional interruption. Go ahead, Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u109	The Secretary of State says "for these people who don't work." But these people do work. They work for four or five years and have a perspective, namely that in two or three years' time they will have the supplementary working arrangements. They'll work. They'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u110	Within the Wajangers group we're talking about here, 39% work. For the people who work, it is true that when this law enters into force, they do not get the income over an x-number of years they had expected to get, namely 100% wml, but that based on their current income, the benefit would be looked at on the basis of the new law. What's better? Then that's the amount that applies. That's right. In doing so, they can make use of the new incentive rules of the law. But it is true that Mrs Oomen sees here a group of which she says: expectations have been raised in the past, a perspective has been put in place and that perspective changes. She was right to draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u111	One more question. The Secretary of State says there's an incentive scheme. Is it true, then, that this group, which now does not receive that scheme in 2021, will have to take that future perspective and then work full-time to get back to that minimum wage? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u112	Unfortunately, there is no clear answer to that, because it depends on the possibilities someone has to work. So the number of hours you work, but also the job wage you have and where you work. So I cannot give a clear answer to that. What I do see, however, is that we have also added annexes to the answers to written questions, namely that the new law is more favourable in relation to the working arrangements. Compared to the continuing working arrangements, you must be able to work a considerable number of hours, if you look at the average income. I very much sympathize with Mrs Oomen on this point. She mentioned it, too. Forgive me for doing it, Mr. Chairman, but I'm going into legal history for a moment, because how did it happen? This scheme was devised in 2008. The intention of this was the following. If someone comes into the scheme young, you can't say everything about what one has potential and abilities. So the thought was, if you're a few years ahead, like around 27, then we can see what you can do and what you can't do. Then we'll have a terrible word, Mr President, forgave me for calculating residual earning capacity. At the time, we did not do execution tests. So when the time came for this arrangement to get hands and feet, they found out in the implementation organizations that that is not possible at all, because residual earning capacity is very different for one person in one place than for the same person in another place. But there was a law passed. Then it was said: 'How are we going to give hands and feet to that?' It was said at that time: 'up to 20% work, we test everything away'. You'd almost say this is happening from the thought that up to 20% doesn't matter. I think this is a terrible thought, because I think that people who do their best should be able to see that they are working from the very beginning. Up there, we set the 20% limit. As a result, if you're in that scheme, it doesn't matter at all if you're working 21% or 79%. Given the age of this target group, the target group is really still very young.I'd hate to see them work less than they can. You don't only get income from work, you also get contacts, you develop yourself and you hang out with other people. We want to strike a good balance between participation on the one hand and income security on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u113	I hate to break it to you, but I feel like I don't understand. If someone works 21% and has a high job pay, then this person gets more hours than just the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u114	That's right, because there's also a Breman scheme in the continuing working arrangements. By the way, this summit is getting rid of it in the new regulation. So there is no max at 120%. There's not gonna be a max anymore. Mr. Chairman. I just want to be equestrian about this, too. Mrs Oomen raised this point and I want to be clear about it. With the new arrangement, I tried not to let the reason why you're in the Wajong matter anymore. I'll talk about that later when we talk about people with medical hours. I've tried to bet on the opportunities people have and on the work they can do. I'm very sorry about Mrs. Oomen. The people who had this perspective now think, "What's there for me?" In the coalition agreement we received extra money for the service of the UWV. I can imagine that I'm going to talk to the UWV urgently about how we can help these people. Because ensuring a good position on the labour market is perhaps even more important than ensuring a good income provision. Since I think that Mrs Oomen really has a point here, I am very willing to see if I can promote this through this personal service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u115	Perhaps it would be helpful if the Secretary of State indicated how many people were involved. In her list at the beginning of her contribution she mentioned 2,000 people who are now falling into it, but there is also a group that might have fallen into it. Can she give an indication of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u116	Sure. I'm gonna take a look at the civil servants, see if I can get the right grades. On 1 January 2021, 15,000 Wajongers who are in the Wajong 2010 are not yet in the continuing working arrangements. 39% of them work. That's 6,000 people. This means 61% of them don't work. The supplement to wml does not come into sight until you work and earn more than 20% of the wml. These 6,000 Wajongers may therefore be eligible for continued working arrangements, but I cannot specify how many of them are below 20% in this period. There's a maximum of 6,000 of them. I therefore think it is more than right that Mrs Oomen has drawn attention to this. However, I note that it has not been said that these groups are necessarily declining in the new scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u117	It's getting a little complicated. We now have a situation where the Prime Minister says, "You have to make 100% of the decisions based on 50% of the information." On that file we understand that, but at least in a law that has been prepared for so long, I do not understand. It has to be clear how many people are approaching the advance or the decline. The Secretary of State uses the euphemist word "change," but it's not a change. A commitment has been made. As Mrs Oomen pointed out, people have prepared for this. If they don't get what's coming to them, they're gonna go backwards. Can we use the words that fit in here, namely: you go backwards, because you get less than you're promised? That is the first question. Secondly, how many people are we talking about? That has to be approachable. The Secretary of State said, in fact, we can't say what it is until a day before the law enters. Well, if you can't say that one day in advance, it's not a good law. That you can't say it exactly, for everyone, is something else. But I would like to make that clear. Third. The Secretary of State says: I understand exactly what Mrs Oomen means; we are going to see if we can do something in support. I know Mrs Oomen long enough; she does not mean that. She means: if people go backwards, we don't want that; then we want an answer from the Secretary of State. And then we don't want to hear: you get a voucher for another part. We don't want these people going backwards. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of achieving that? And even if she doesn't see it, we need to know it. But we want hob or calf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u118	On that first point. It is in the greatest interest of the people themselves that makes it more difficult for me, for us, to determine this.... that one day before the entry into force of the law we see what is most beneficial for them. That is the most current situation. The UWV will, if this law is passed, calculate for everyone what would be under the new law on income support and what it is now, and the best case counts. That can only happen at the very last minute. People can still work and people can lose their jobs. We'll get to the crisis later. We are indeed seeing great blows on the labour market. But we also see sectors where many Wajongers work and where it is very busy. So I just can't say that right now. That is also in the interests of the people themselves. Now I've lost the third question; it shoots me out of my head. Oh, yeah! This is why I went back to the history of law, which was the intention of the law. The idea was to look at what people can do. Before that, it was planned that we would see what their "sorry for the word "rest earning capacity" is. Turns out he couldn't. That is quite a logical idea from that time, with the valuation of wages; that was the subject at the time. But it didn't turn out to be possible. In order to do this in a different way, we looked at the 80/20 rule. My proposal is to go back to the intention of that law, which is to make sure that we look at what people can do. Let us focus on their labour market position, not only because it produces work, wages, but also because it produces development. When I see that 61% of these people are not working right now, I think I have the key in my hands, which I would also like to give to Mrs Oomen: we have to bet on it. Because that was in 2008, when we were doing this, the thought. Whatever was invented didn't unpack. I'm trying to put something in place for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u119	A historical interpretation of a law is always interesting, but if it means that we do not keep a promise that has been made now because it would not really be the intention, then that is not true. The promise has been made, the promise has been made. People have followed that path and are entitled to it. Then you can't say: we didn't mean it like that, so now we're taking it away from you. Once again, I hope that the Secretary of State does not understand me in this Chamber, but this Chamber understands it well. In any event, on this point, there are still a few other things that this Chamber does not want to see a deterioration for that group. So the question is not so much: how did it all come about? The question is, how does the Secretary of State get us to solve this? Unless the Secretary of State says no matter what your room thinks, that's how we're gonna do it. But then there could just be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u120	In the end, this bill weighs all kinds of things. That's what I'm gonna tell you right away. I have tried to make some improvements, such as the right to revival, such as studying, which can also improve your labour market position, and like making work pay for people who are now unable or unable to enter the labour market, because it just doesn't work for them. But on the other hand, you can also see a number of groups that may deteriorate. In doing so, I took as my starting point the material situation at the time of entry into force of the new law. As I pointed out, I feel very strongly about Mrs Oomen's contribution. That perspective is not an acquired right. We have had to change perspectives more often in the legislation, not because we liked it, but because we felt it was socially necessary, including the age at which you can retire. That is why I dare to discuss this with you because we are trying to find the balance between income security and the possibility of participating. Nor is it one-to-one for this group to say that people will move forward or backwards. That depends on their personal situation and how they work at that time. 61% of people don't work right now. If you don't work, you don't get into a continuous work schedule, where you have to push up to 100%. Of the 39% of the people who do work, I don't know if they're below 20%. But I do know that with the bill there will be a much greater opportunity for people to go to work and make work pay. In the end, it is up to all of you to weigh that down. My assessment is that the balance in this bill is such that, as we saw a few years ago in discussions on social security, we are going to look much more closely at what people can and we are going to put them into what they can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u121	The Secretary of State chooses to emphasise that a number of groups are making progress. I understand that; I also support the improvement of groups. A concern that is shared in this Chamber concerns those groups that are declining. This has to do with, for example, the change in size and the continuing working arrangements. I also understand very well that no calculations can be made about this now, because the consequences are only clear at the time of entry into force. But we could now calculate, on the basis of the current situation, what the income gap means, how many people are affected by it and what the extent of that decline is. I would therefore like to challenge the Secretary of State not to rely on the hypothetical situation in the future and to point out that we cannot calculate it. We also need to be able to calculate, on the basis of the current situation, how much is going to go backwards and how much is going to go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u122	In relation to the material situation in which people are now sitting, there is no deterioration, because that is what the guarantee amount is for. The measure man was once introduced to protect people, in the sense that it prevented people from falling out of the Wajong if they learned skills or were good at their work. I didn't mean to, but the effect of the mate was that because of the disability class you were in a different income position. The new measures are not so much looking at why people enter the Wajong as at how to ensure that work pays off. Therefore, the size man is no longer needed, because the disability classes are no longer there and the size man was intended to protect against the now famous saw tooth. The Breman scheme has been incorporated in the new formulas, so that the benefits of this scheme will soon apply to the whole target group, but the restriction that applies in that context, namely that you always have to have a job coach, is over. Also for the group of people who look at the formulas, the guarantee scheme means that they cannot go backwards. I would like to say that people who are now working in a particular construction, with an income supplement, a salary and perhaps certain allowances, but who lose their jobs, fall back on the social minimum. Then it's hard to tell if you're gonna make the same in your new job in the same construction. Unfortunately, that is the uncertainty with which we have to deal. I understand that for people with disabilities, people with disabilities, it is even more difficult. The law must therefore make it better for people and where it has negative consequences, we must ensure a safety net. This is the purpose of the guarantee scheme which continues to exist up to the retirement age.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u123	I have a question about the Breman scheme. Is it true that Wajangers are making some progress with this arrangement, unless they are working towards full-time? Those Wajangers aren't getting any better. Can the Secretary of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u124	With the help of the amendments tabled by the House of Representatives, especially those by Mr Renkema and Mr Gijs van Dijk, which also bring people who work with pay dispensation to their job pay, I can say that all people are improving according to the new formula. The crux is indeed in the weighting that....................................................................................................................................................................... That's not inherent to the law, but to the fact that you have another job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u125	My information is different, namely that Wajangers in the Breman scheme are going backwards if they are working towards full-time. I also have questions about implementation costs. Part of the uncertainty is that the execution only follows when it has been introduced, but then the UWV has to calculate which formula is applicable, the general or the formula-Renkema and Van Dijk. What implementation costs are involved in the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u126	If Mrs. Sent's information is different, I'm gonna find out. I don't want to start a discussion about facts. I will see if I can find out during the debate. Otherwise, I will come back to it in the second term, because a weighting of facts is something other than having the facts incorrect. With regard to the implementation costs of the UWV, I note that these are subordinate to me. The purpose of the law is to make things better. If we change things, the implementation costs will naturally go up, but the most important thing is that there will be a law that works for people. That's my priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u127	But if the choice is between putting money into execution, or putting money into the Wajanger, then I think the choice is easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u128	That's right. Many MPs have asked: is this law a austerity? No, there's more money going on. But there must also be proper implementation. Of course, we are talking about a large group of people, and there are also costs involved. We want as much personal service as possible. We also want to be able to answer people's questions as much as possible. It costs money, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u129	I call Mr Van Gurp. I suggest we give the Secretary of State a chance to make a few more meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u130	It is now naturally back in the debate, of course, because the debate has taken a certain course. Still. I remained in a position to do so and I am interested in the Secretary of State's reasoning on "the forced or not forced reduction of existing rights." I'll just call it that anyway. In reply to Mrs Oomen's comment on the continuing working arrangements, you said that it is sometimes in the social security system that we should do this. Maybe there is something similar about the change in size, but let me confine myself to the continuing working arrangements. You say: "I am always looking for a balance between income security and employment participation. I may have to take away a security or a right because of that balance sheet." My question then is: was there in the continuing working arrangements, where you reduce rights which significantly reduce income security, such a barrier to employment participation that makes it necessary and legitimise that income security becomes so much less? Otherwise, I don't understand why taking away that security is necessary for the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u131	As far as the legal process is concerned, I would like to say that it is not the taking away of an acquired right, but the changing of perspective. I like to say that. I do understand that that may feel the same for people, but it is also something else. One thing that is legally decided and weighed in a total story is ultimately also what the legislator indicates. At the same time, I also think it is important that the intention of the law, i.e. the perspective of work that we have put forward, is what remains. My answer may be at a somewhat higher level of aggregation, but I am going to give it anyway, because that is what I am talking about. We want to protect the people who are at work, if we have to do so up to retirement age. With the guarantee scheme, it stays the way it is. They are allowed to keep them until their retirement age. But for those who do not work, there are a lot of them: of the people in the Wajong half have the ability to work and half of them do not work, because of all kinds of uncertainties and regulations, we have to get it done. That is the balance that ultimately led me to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u132	At the level of the system, I understand the consideration. What we are talking about here is actually that we do understand the system, macro. But there are groups of people, and that is what we are focusing on in this period, at least in the answer in your first term actually, in terms of perspective, in terms of expected certainty and in any case in terms of supposed rights, or whatever you want to call it, significantly worse off. Is there also a balance for these groups on the other hand where they have a lot of incentive, or are they more or less the victims of the fact that things are changing at system level, which is why they are in fact unlucky? Then you can say: there are 6,000 or there are 30,000. Of course it matters, but for the principle it doesn't matter that much. I would like to know that, because we are actually talking to you as a Chamber about the question: is it for those groups who are now disadvantaged in this, when there is no obvious advantage for them, to solve it differently, so that you keep your overall arrangement but not that suffering? That, I believe, is at the heart of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u133	I also think it is simply a very fair question, as I think all the questions that have been asked here are quite right, because they express concerns of people or otherwise simply monitor proper and proper legislation. So I think it's a very fair question. Basically, it's a total story with different parts. It is true that the perspective of people changes that they would have on the future. By the way, the question is how many people in this group are affected by this. Each person is a person. I think we're on the same page. So the perspective on 100% wml changes. That's right. On the other hand, however, the right of revival goes up to the age of AOW. So you don't have to be afraid to go to work anymore. You're not falling out of your Wajong. The same group also has the right to study and improve its own labour market position. When they are at work, the guarantee amount also applies to them. So it's not like I'm taking anything from them bald. It's a total story that includes a number of elements to nurture, protect and also stimulate people. In my weighting, I put it very explicitly here, because I want to do justice to the discussions in your Chamber and I do not want to play hide-and-seek about it either. But everyone makes their own weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u134	Mr. Van Gurp, third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u135	Well, no. I'm listening to the Secretary of State's reasoning. I do not entirely agree, but I am particularly concerned that I am very clear about the reasoning. On how I weigh it, we'll come back in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u136	Mr. Ester, another small question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u137	I am still thinking about the fact that it is so difficult for the Secretary of State to determine, in particular, the income effects of this harmonization. That is a bit at the heart of the debate, because that is about security for those Wajangers. I understand that very well, but it is unsatisfactory that we cannot pass that on. This may also have to do with a number of questions that we have asked by Mrs Stienen, by myself, by others about when this calculation tool will become available. In fact, such a calculation tool is, of course, a kind of simulation of the passing of a law on the individual level of existence. That's how the IRS works. The Tax Administration doesn't know everything either, but it does have tools that allow you as a taxpayer to see exactly what you have to pay and what you don't have to pay, because all the parameters are in that calculation tool. If that calculation tool became available soon, it would remove a lot of uncertainty, because then Wajongers with their supporters, their parents, can calculate what the income effects are. This can then be simulated and there are countless policy examples in which it is used. Your own department also works with this. Couldn't that just be here? Can't that calculator be brought forward any further?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u138	It now says that it will be ready in December, but I will see if it can be done sooner. I do know that the pressure on the UWV in a broad sense is, of course, incredibly high at the moment. At least I know that the UWV can start if the First Chamber would comply with the law. I could check. Perhaps I can do that during the first period, because that can be an important factor for Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u139	If that works, we've made a huge step. By simulating in the manner I indicated, we can remove a lot of that uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u140	Then may I say this, Mr. Chairman? In the end, the following applies to people. You have your Wajong benefit, which is individual, without partner or power test, 70% of the wml if you have work power, plus €0.30 of each euro you earn, or a little more if you work with salary dispensation. That's the base. At least that's what people can get from. If you think "o, but I have much more now," then of course the UWV will also make that calculation and if that's true, you keep what you have now, if you work. That's the base. In that sense, it's not that difficult. What makes it difficult in a personal sense is the coincidence with surcharges or with other things that play on a personal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u141	Yeah, but you can do that in one of those calculators. I would like to ask you whether we can bring that forward. I think that will remove a lot of dissatisfaction and uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u142	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u143	Then I suggest that we give the Secretary of State the opportunity to make a few meters, if not miles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u144	I was with a question from Mr Ester. He asked whether this new system now also makes it attractive for employers. I can honestly say that this has not played a role, because in the system of income support there are no consequences for employers. That is something that the UWV offsets with the benefit. The employer is not a party to that. Frankly, I think it is particularly important that we make this law clearer for people themselves. Mr. Chairman. Many topics have already been discussed in the debate on the interruption, including the alternative formula. So I'm gonna let that go for a while, because I think I've already discussed it. If not, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u145	I can see Mrs. Sent responding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u146	I just want to shake a no. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u147	Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u148	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u149	It came along for a while, but you had indeed asked me to reflect on the alternative formula. I can see that right here. The starting point of both formulas is really different. Let me start with the alternative formula. I know, by the way, that there is a lot of work, time and energy in that, so also compliments for that. The alternative formula is such a different formula that, unfortunately, I have to be critical about it. This formula is based on the principle that the monthly minimum wage is the amount needed to participate fully in society, while the Wajong benefit is based on the social minimum. But that's not just the case with the Wajong. The social minimum is also the basis of other benefits in our system. The new income support rules will increase income from the social minimum for a single person when they start working. I also think that people should get better when they go to work or when they go to work more. The alternative formula does not in all cases make more work pay. For example, wajongers with a wage at the level of the statutory minimum wage do not improve on the basis of the alternative formula if they start working more. The alternative formula provides a supplement to job pay for hours worked and a supplement to wml for hours not worked. I also think it is important to say that, of course, we also have people with similar situations who, for example, are covered by the Participation Act. That arrangement is considerably stricter than the Wajong. This involves a partner test or a power test, while the Wajong is an untested control for an individual person. There are also people in our society who have a disability and who do not have access to any scheme. So now we're looking at a group inside the Wajong. That is what we must do, because those concerns are justified, but my plea would be that we should not only consider and consider the broad, diverse Wajong group, but also the other groups in our social security system to which we should be able to explain it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester had asked another question about people who have no sustainable working capacity and who may occasionally earn extra money. Then it is indeed useful to know what is "incidental" and whether this is conditional. That is Mr Bruins' amendment to the House of Representatives. The original bill stated that this would not be the case for people who have no sustainable work capacity, but this amendment retains Wajongers of every euro 0.25. The dilemma behind it is that, if you are permanently disabled, you have a 75% Wajong benefit. I do not want to put people in the position that, because they work, they put 75% to 70% if that is incidental. But I had a great deal of sympathy for the House of Representatives on this point. If the merits give rise to doubts as to whether someone sustainably has no work power, the UWV may request a re-evaluation. This happens, for example, when someone suddenly starts earning more money or when we see that at some point there is a stable income, but our expectation is that this will not happen very often in practice, because of the people in the Wajong 2015 that is a similar group of people had 0.9% a job by the end of 2018. That's 86 people. Of the group that had an ongoing benefit at the end of 2018 and had worked at any time in 2018, only 10% had worked every month. So I don't think the risk is great. Mr. Chairman. Several MPs have asked questions about the position of people with medical hours of disability. In view of the attention that the Chamber also calls for for this group, I would like to go into that further. I would have liked to have said that as many people as there are, so many reasons there can also be to claim a Wajong benefit. A medical hour restriction is one of those reasons. I'm really convinced that for the scheme you're covered by and how high your income is, it shouldn't matter what kind of restriction you have. In that respect, equal treatment is really a core value under this bill. I want this bill to be there for all Wajangers. As I outlined earlier, we have 125,000 people in the Wajong who have the right to work. Each of them has a unique situation. Of those 125,000 people with labor, 60,000 don't work. That also means that I wanted to make an arrangement that clearly outlines how you can work and how that is rewarded. I am therefore concerned with simplicity and equal treatment. I don't want it to matter when you're born, what limitations you have or when you get them. Mr. Chairman. I will come back to the guarantee scheme in greater detail later, but people who are already in the schemes will receive the guarantee amount. As has been mentioned here several times, this has been extended in the Lower House from two months to twelve months. I would also like to stress that this period starts only after the expiry of the WW law and that the amount of the guarantee can continue until the age of AOW. Combining this with the right to lifelong survival, also balanced against increasing the opportunities of the large group that is not currently participating, I come to this proposal, which really aims to respect existing rights and also to offer opportunities to people who are not currently working. Mr Schalk asked me: if you look at the medical hours limitation, why is it so difficult to establish it in practice? After all, this is happening in the WIA. However, in the WIA, only a limited number of cases are identified during the claim assessment. In principle, if you consider his or her limitation, everyone is taxable for work 40 hours a week. That's no matter how many hours someone worked before. There are a limited number of reasons why an hour limitation can be determined, for example if someone has an energetic limitation. This medical hours restriction in the WIA must be determined by an insurance doctor. That's really very close to it. There's got to be a medical reason. If you sell that procedure against the desire to make an hour reduction part of an income scheme, you should have 120,000 people with a work ability in the case of all Wajongers who are in need of medical assessment by an insurance doctor. I think you know that at the moment we do not have excess capacity for doctors, but unfortunately a known shortage. So it is not possible to do this. Moreover, I would also like to point out that the number of hours someone actually works does not say everything about the taxable capacity either. Of course, it may be, but it may also be that the contract of employment depends on the number of hours an employer makes available or the number of hours someone wants to work. So it's not the only factor. Mr President, I come to the debate on the amount of the guarantee. I have already said a lot about it, but it may be good to discuss it fully with you here. For Wajangers, who would fall under the new rules, we have made a transitional arrangement with a guarantee amount. This is an explicit transitional measure, because I have also seen that the accumulation of regulations in the past has resulted in an enormous accumulation of transitional rights. But I think it's a very crucial part of the bill. Several MPs have asked for it. It is also necessary, because if you are just looking at the peaks and valleys in the saw tooth with the disability class in the oWajong, you must be able to provide that protection. If you fully apply the new rules to people for whom the current rules are beneficial, you can indeed get worse. That is unjust and I would like to avoid it. That's what the guarantee amount is for. What the discussion is often about is that the perspective on the development of income changes. For example, we were just talking about people who would flow in or expected to flow into the continuing working arrangements. Perspective change is inherent in changing rules, but I don't want people getting stuck. The Wajanger continues to claim the amount of the guarantee as long as he or she continues to work in the same job, with the same number of hours or more hours. If you change jobs, the same thought applies. If the intermediate period is less than 12 months, you will continue to claim the amount of the guarantee at the time you return to work and the benefit under the new rules is lower than the amount of the guarantee. I have heard many of you about the one-year deadline and the consideration of whether or not to opt for a longer term, also because we are in a huge crisis situation. I had the same idea myself when the crisis broke loose. I thought: oh, have we done well for this group? So I understand that that thought has come to mind. I really understand that. I have spoken extensively in the House of Representatives on this subject. The original proposal contained a period of two months, because we also wanted to prevent people from changing jobs for financial reasons. We didn't want a negative impact on mobility. The discussion was also about finance, but what I also think is very important is that you have to explain to people in about the same situation that they have different treatment. I'd like to shorten that deadline. The debate in the Lower House has led to an extension. I think Mrs. Sent asked me how I feel about that. I think that's an improvement of the law. I just want to be very straightforward about that. I think it's a valuable addition to the law. As I said, there are at the same time people who are not working at the time of entry into force of the law. This means that they receive a lower benefit than their colleagues who have a scheme through the guarantee period. That makes it difficult for me to reach a longer term, because then we will create new differences between groups of Wajangers and I find that hard to justify. In the direction of Mrs De Bruijn, she has explicitly asked whether the amount of the guarantee is valid until the retirement age if you continue to work in the same job with the same number of hours. That's the case. I've said that several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u150	Now I don't understand. I was just a little too quick about the guarantee amount, people at work, the corona crisis and the guarantee scheme. I think there is a general feeling here that this 12-month period is already quite difficult in normal circumstances, and I believe that 40% of people will not find a new job after they have lost their jobs within 12 months. We now feel in all the letters and talks that we are having that the economic crisis that is coming will be very difficult for this group. I think it's even more about psychology behind the Secretary of State's promise to keep the thermometer somewhere in the coming year. There is also an idea for a motion on evaluation or monitoring. So we can see if more people from the Wajong are losing their jobs and if it's extra difficult to find a job at this difficult time. We have a one-and-a-half-metre society, where people are told: you can only travel when necessary. Yesterday there was a lady on the news who I believe is Jitske, and who just can't easily travel by train because she's in a wheelchair. In the psychology of that guarantee scheme, it's not even about amounts for me, but it's about the coulance that we all used to apply to this group. I would therefore urge the Secretary of State to confirm that if I use the word 'crisis-proof', it is not about comparing two people on 1 January 2021, where one has the guarantee amount and the other does not, but about the psychology that we are willing to extend that period, should that be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u151	Thank you. I would have liked to have mentioned this aspect, because that was the reality of the treatment before the corona crisis. I think Mrs Stienen is making a very valid point. Allow me to clarify what we're doing. We are faced with an unprecedented crisis. The arrangements that we have, as the NOW.I say 'now', but I think that I am getting into a fight with my colleague... are clearly intended to keep people's jobs. It is an emergency package aimed at supporting businesses and jobs, and for people with disabilities, people with a Wajong or other places, with job agreements. This group already has a vulnerable position on the labour market. It's really under pressure right now. Mr Van Pareren asked in detail about the crisis. Of course, we also hold these talks in the Cabinet. A lot of Wajongers work at a sw company. I hope that in the very near future I will also be able to forward some of this to your Chambers. It's just too early to say anything about that, but it has my full attention. Within the Participation Act, for example, I have suspended the wage cost subsidy that could possibly be doubled. So I have a great deal of sympathy for this. At the same time, I would like to look with your Chamber for what works. If your Chamber votes in favour, the law would enter into force on 1 January 2021. Then the first situation in which we have to deal with this guarantee would be 1 January 2022. I don't know what it looks like. I think it is a very good idea to link this to what has been asked about evaluation and monitoring. I agree with the proposal to ensure that this is a sound monitoring, because it is difficult for me to assess the labour market situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u152	My years of experience negotiating in the souk in the Arab world is now going to work, because I think things are different and I think we can do this differently. If we pass this law together, we'll be around 1 June 2020. The crisis is now in progress. If people lose their jobs now, on 1 June 2021 the first group will have to deal with those 12 months and may lose their right to the guarantee scheme. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she would consider whether the date should not be 1 June 2021 in order to keep the thermometer and to see which people have actually suffered from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u153	Don't call through the hall, Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u154	Let me say this, and I hope that I have built up a little credit in your Chamber for this: over the last few weeks we have shown that we are working according to the adadium 'if we cannot do it as we should', as I said to Mr Kox. That has also been the guiding principle of the crisis. What we have done is not to change existing systems, but to support systems, for example at the Tozo, but also at the food banks and the Caribbean Netherlands. I'm really willing, even, to look with the Chamber at what can work, but we don't know anything about the labour market situation specifically for this group right now. I have just mentioned that there are big blows to be expected. At the same time, there are also sectors in which many Wajangers work and where it is very busy, for example in the supermarket sector. A lot of Wajongers work there. So could we look together for an opportunity to link the evaluation and monitoring to something that is needed? I am incredibly receptive to that; let me just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u155	Finally. I have also included in my contribution that there are a lot of places where people with a Wajong could possibly go to work. But one of my best friends, who is visually impaired, says, "If I lose my job now, I can't work in places where the job is." So there really is a huge concern. So another call about psychology.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u156	Mrs. Sent. Oh, was Mr. Schalk first? Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u157	Thank you, Mrs Sent, and thank you, Mr President. Because of the situation we are in because of the corona crisis, I was still thinking about the period we are talking about and whether it should be 1 June 2020, 1 June 2021 or 1 January 2022. There are a few laws that we can foresee from other crises that we have been through. If there is an economic crisis, the labour market often goes on for a while and then dives away. And when the economic crisis is over, it will take a while for the labour market to move up again. I can't look into the future, but I'm afraid we're going to be diving into a period of fairly strong economic recession and the labour market is going to be behind it for a while before it gets back together. We have the most vulnerable group in today's debate. We need a little more room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u158	As I said, I am very receptive to this appeal. I care about this group of people. I want them to have a solid place on the labour market. I am therefore very receptive to this. Maybe we can use the dinner break to see, based on good analysis, what is needed and what would be a good timing. I do not have a biased view. I'm not saying I don't want this to happen, or I have to. Not at all. I just want to do whatever it takes. I am not an economist myself, but economists at the ministry tell me that it is a special crisis because suddenly everything stopped. We must indeed see how we can help the people. So my one plea is: can we find the space to see with each other what is possible and what is advisable? Maybe we should make a deal now and complete it in the coming time. Maybe you can. I'm very receptive to that. At the same time, my plea is also: can it be something the system is doing instead of a change within the system? This is for reasons which I have already exchanged in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u159	I would like to join with the concerns expressed by Mr Schalk and Mrs Stienen. The numbers are already there. The number of vacancies has already fallen by a quarter. The experts at the Central Planning Bureau are already predicting enormous unemployment. And then there is the fact that there is now a combination of an economic crisis and a health crisis. Because of the health crisis, the Wajongers are hit extra hard, like Jiska, who cannot travel by train. They're at home for health reasons and they don't have the room to apply. It was already a complicated arrangement with those 12 months, but it can only be that the corona crisis will change that. And I'd rather not use the dinner break for that. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what she is doing in response to this situation. What's her proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u160	Mrs Sent presents an image that we should certainly take into account. I can also go along with her analysis to a large extent, and I share her concerns. I asked for dinner break to gather some information from the ministry, for example. As far as I am concerned, this is being discussed in all transparency. I'm standing here with my hands open. But what do we do now? Of course, we have the broad emergency package, which has been explicitly stated: keep people in service. There are also signals from the municipality about the sw, which can be said to work with Wajong between 30% and 40% of people. There are big problems, because a lot of people are sitting at home and sales are really falling. Municipalities have appealed to the cabinet, and I am also responding to that. So it's not like I don't want to do it or do it behind closed doors. I am prepared to do anything to ensure that we get through this crisis together. But give me the time to advise you on what might be a good arrangement, which will really help this group. As far as I'm concerned, it's with open arms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u161	That is not quite an answer to my question. Mr Schalk has made a number of proposals on how this can be adapted. Which of these proposals can count on the support of the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u162	I always find it difficult to talk about what is preferred in the Chamber. Well, then, I'm gonna have to take a good look at it. I cannot say at the moment that I have a strong preference or that I do not necessarily want something. I'd like to keep all the options open so we can see what can work later, and we can draw on that. I'll tell you that we'll have to have the numbers or the things we know on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u163	I had suggested in my contribution it was more than a suggestion to link the guarantee clause to the monitoring and evaluation of the law. If we really want to encourage this and have a comprehensive evaluation at our disposal, and not in three years' time, then we need to put this into practice as soon as possible after the monitoring is set up, then we also know which groups are failing and whether we can intervene. I would like to have another reaction to that. The second point is a question that I had asked and which may now be answered right away. It is a question of the relationship between this bill and the Breed Offensive. That bill's gonna be here later. It's about making Wajangers' income stronger, and also about how we can make them more resilient in a crisis. This also involves a very different package of measures for Wajangers: training, guidance, coaching. All those things are in that Breed Offensive package. All these things can be dealt with here again. May I ask you to put the relationship on that point as well? Because then we have a more complete picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u164	I think it's okay to keep your finger on the wrist if you make a law. But I repeat it to Mr Ester: in this particular case, more is needed than just a finger on the wrist monitoring. We're dealing with a large group of people who are going to see changes. I believe they are improvements, but that will have to be demonstrated. I therefore believe that we should not simply carry out an evaluation, but that we should carry out a thorough evaluation on this. Looking at the question before us, it must also have, as far as I am concerned, a component which states how we deal with, for example, the guarantee scheme in crisis time. So I am certainly receptive to that. I do not want to speak too lightly about this either, because I think that we really need an evaluation here. Then let's talk about the broad offensive. Mr President, cut me off if I get too wide-mouthed about it. That is really the broader picture in which we deal with this law as far as I am concerned. The position of people with disabilities is downright bad in the Netherlands. There were a number of issues in the coalition agreement. Some of them have changed, because if a plan doesn't work, I'm really not too bad to do it another way. That new story was real: we are going to launch a broad offensive to strengthen the position of people with disabilities in the labour market. You don't do that all at once. I, too, want to go to the objectives we have in the UN Convention, but you can only do so in steps. This must sometimes be done by target group. This law therefore lies ahead to ensure that the scheme that supports the target group Wajong, the people in the Wajong, becomes more stimulating. The scheme should also provide more clarity about income. Also in the Participation Act, the rules are pretty tight for those who do not have a choice. There it has been proposed, for example, that the four-week search period for young people should be suspended. That's where it's proposed to be able to hold on to more when you go to work with a medical hour restriction. These two laws can't be separated from what's around them. That's the working component. That's the job deal. That's the sheltered work that's finally starting to get a little steamed up. That is the discussion we are having about continuing the SW infrastructure. How do we create a SW infrastructure that can contribute to this. I think it's so valuable. That total palette, income schemes, but certainly also work, is, as far as I am concerned, the broad offensive. That's the relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u165	At the moment, a lot of those involved are following our debates. I feel that at the moment we are at a certain level of abstraction which I can imagine will no longer be fully monitored by the viewers, to name them. In that context, I have the following request. The law is now getting very involved on corona. My request is to look closely at the following. This law has been put together in the high economy. There was a response from those involved. There are a number of questions and suggestions that relate to income and guarantee. But on top of that, Corona has now come. I want to prevent us from having the debate now on the basis of 'look what Corona is still doing about this'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u166	What's your question, Mr. Van Pareren?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u167	My question is whether we can split that up, so we're talking about the situation for corona. There have been many questions about this. At that time people had not thought: hey, there comes corona, I'm going to ask questions about that. In addition, we need to talk about the situation in which we know about corona. Many people quite rightly point out that this is a very significant change in the situation. So my question is whether we can split that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u168	She can take that into account in the future. Does Mrs. Oomen have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u169	May I report one thing, Mr. Chairman? I very much agree with Mr Van Pareren. I'm happy to be a part of that. Now I'm gonna stop the corona part of this discussion. It is not necessarily the case that the Wajong was designed with the idea that we have a high-class economy. He's just trying to bring peace to the system by giving people clarity in a longer period of time. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u170	I understand. The difference has to be heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u171	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u172	Thank you. Did Mrs. Oomen have a question? Then we'll go back to measuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u173	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what she means by monitoring this legislation and the measures that would result from it. The Secretary of State can correct me if I see it wrong, but I think that many people with temporary jobs will no longer have a job in the coming months. Is it true that this means that at the end of the year they will receive a lower guarantee amount? You'll get past that one more time, Corona. Perhaps the Secretary of State can include in the monitoring what she thinks she's doing with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u174	I think that's very good. We intend something with this law. A number of significant assumptions have been made regarding the income position of people and the employment rate of people. It seems to me to be only justified, even more so, that I am very much in favour of a firm approach to this issue and that we are doing it for all those issues on which I propose in this legislative proposal, with assumptions underneath which relate to the income position and the ability of people to get to work. So the answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u175	I'm gonna take a look at the time schedule, Secretary of State. How many cubes do you have left, and how much time do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u176	I've been through some things a little bit. I now come to a number of overarching questions, including the UN Convention. Then I come to communication and implementation, and then I have a number of other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u177	How much time do you think you'll need, including the interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u178	I can't estimate the latter; I wouldn't dare. I estimate that my speaking time will be about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u179	I would ask Members to keep the interruptions brief and to reserve them for supplementary questions. You'll all get a second term later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u180	A number of colleagues have noted that the guarantee period is a major concern in this Chamber. The Secretary of State himself has said that she has experienced the extension of the guarantee period from two to twelve months, although it was not her initiative, as an improvement. That was an improvement when we didn't have a corona crisis. As the Secretary of State knows, we are not in a position to change the bill, but she is. In that sense, I would be pleased, and would also clarify it for a number of colleagues, if the Secretary of State were to make a generous gesture and say: because of the special circumstances I am going to extend the 12-month period. This does not depend on monitoring and moving insight, but on the current situation. My question to the Secretary of State is whether she would like to make such a gesture herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u181	I have also indicated in the House of Representatives that the twelve months for me is a period within which I still find it explainable to other people in the same situation, in the same arrangement, who do not have a job. There's more to it than just the financials. It is also true that the guarantee scheme can go through until your retirement age. Therefore, I would not be in favour of a generic extension. The scheme can go on for decades, and there is also an issue of explainability and equality with regard to other people in the Wajong. I have therefore called for the Chamber to look into whether, as with other regulations, we can leave the system intact, but the system can do so. This can be done, for example, by a temporary button, where the evaluation can tell whether or not to turn it on. I tasted that a little from the discussion with the Chamber. But I'd like to think along in that direction. Mr. Chairman. Several Members of Parliament have considered the opinion of the College of Human Rights, but also the question: what is the place of the legislative proposal in the larger picture? I was just talking to Mr Ester about the broad offensive. So there I can, so I see as I move this leaf underneath it, put away another leaf. However, I would also like to touch on a point which, as far as I am concerned, is in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is also a matter for your Chamber. That treaty encourages us to strive to improve the position of people with disabilities. I think it is important to point out here, too, that the cabinet, including myself, is fully committed to doing justice to this important endeavour. Perhaps it would be a good idea, before I take up the advice of the College of Human Rights, to discuss the nature of the provisions of the UN Convention. Because these provisions give a mandate to the government, but they do not explain exactly what the government should do and how it should do it. But what matters is that the Treaty objectives can be achieved with the measures. Because of the importance I attach to the opinion and to the checklist proposed by the college, I have also provided a very comprehensive written response to your questions. But also in this debate, several of your Members of Parliament have asked me to reflect on that checklist that the College has formulated. I also had a conversation with the college about this, because we have a lot of contact. If there's any business going on, we'll look each other up. I've been in touch on this, too. And I would like to point out that this checklist can be very helpful if you review legislative proposals under international treaties. This is happening in the policy-making phase. But here it is that I am going to go a bit into the field of colleagues, because the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport has promised the House of Representatives that he and the Minister of the Interior will discuss the review of new legislation under the UN Convention and that this recommended checklist will be involved. The House of Representatives will be informed about the outcome of the talks in the autumn. In making that commitment to the House of Representatives, however, it was noted that explicit review of a treaty also sets a precedent for all kinds of other treaties. I also think it is important to highlight this point here; I know how you are conducting these discussions here. We also need to look at what the current review by the Council of State and the human rights test by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs means in practice. I must remain guilty of this, so I cannot yet indicate whether we are going to give this checklist a structural place in SZW policy. However, I would like to stress that the questions, as they are included in the checklist, are already addressed in the current policy preparation. In the second, I explained how we systematically analysed whether the measures were in line with the UN Convention. And I am convinced that most of the measures have a positive impact on the target group. Think, for example, of the measures in the field of Wajong and study, and the ending and revival of law. Where this is not the case, where there is a decline, the analysis has led to the establishment of a transitional regime. That, in my view, is in line with the treaty. Nor has the Council of State, which is reviewing, made any comments on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u182	However, I would like to point out that the College of Human Rights has criticised the government. According to the Human Rights College, the government has not provided sufficient insight into the way in which, in substance, systematically, the arguments chosen have come to fruition. How does this criticism relate to the glowing statement of the Secretary of State that this is an incorrect representation of the situation, apparently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u183	I'll separate two points. In the legislative process, we have always said so far that the Council of State is reviewing international conventions. During the drafting of this bill, the college made that checklist. The College did indeed reflect during the legislative proposal, which I believe we can only learn from each other. That is why I asked to discuss it, because in the end the bill is meant to take a step towards inclusive society. Criticism is therefore welcome as far as I am concerned. I have open eyes and ears for that, too. I just want to learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u184	I implicitly assumed that the Secretary of State will conclude this issue. I had asked if it would be considered, perhaps the College would not at all have the possibility of including the College in the consultation rounds that we always hold with legislative proposals, because that would allow us to see their response at a much earlier stage. I note with regard to this legislative proposal, but also with regard to other legislative proposals, that it is only afterwards that interest groups ask whether it has been tested. The Council of State only reviews things that aren't consistent. Is it possible to include them in the legislative process immediately in the consultation process?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u185	The College is, of course, an advisory body of the government, so we see that they often react in the consultation round. I would like to ask if I can give this point to the colleagues from VWS and Home Affairs who are having this discussion. I also said that I still have to remain guilty to the Chamber of Deputies of the answer to these matters. Otherwise, I'm gonna do this. But I would like to take this point with me and bring it to my fellow Members' attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u186	That's good, but then we'll get an answer. It's a big deal. This is not just a college or an advisory body as there are so many. Within the framework of a United Nations Convention that we have ratified, this is the Dutch regulator, as all the other Member States have a supervisor for this Convention. It must therefore play a role in the preparation of policies and regulations. The Secretary of State and I agree on that, don't we? It is not a body that can say anything, but it is the supervisory body under the UN Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u187	In any case, it is important not to underestimate it. I agree with Mr Kox. Looking at the reflections that have been done, I think we can still learn a few things. I would also add that a number of things have been discussed. One of these things is the early involvement of people in policy. I hope to be able to say something about this later. That's something that's really in the Ministry's genes. Of course, it can always be better. This discussion is now also taken up in principle from VWS and BZK, because it is also about what position you as a parliament give to a consultative body. I think it's better to invest that discussion there. The House of Representatives will be informed in the autumn. I can imagine that the Upper House will be informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u188	But by ratifying the Treaty, the Netherlands has agreed to the formula that there are national supervisors. That is not special, because there are more treaties in which that is done. From that point on, it is a special college that needs to be consulted in policy and regulation. The Secretary of State's statement that we are never too old to learn and that we are broad enough to take everything into account is insufficient. It is also formally a regulator of an international treaty. That's not negotiable. I refer to my second question which I have asked and which I have not yet received an answer to. This Chamber has said that it also wants to know from the government about the supplementary protocol. That is a second part of that treaty, so that the treaty is not a toothless treaty, but a treaty that can have effect. Can the Secretary of State also comment on this? I understand that not everything can be answered today, but before we vote on this bill, I really want to know what the government thinks is the position of an official supervisor in an international treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u189	I feel very involved in the UN Convention. Mr Kox recalled that, when I was a Member of Parliament, I myself, as a spokesperson, had ratified this. So it's really very personal. I am also very pleased that I can now take steps on my way to that inclusive society. I also recently had the debate on the UN Convention with Minister Hugo de Jonge, because work has such a central place in it. I hope to show how much importance I attach to this. But I also find it difficult to go into the field of colleagues. It is simply also the competence of the US Secretary of State. He is the guardian of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. I think it is important to pass the discussion on to him. The discussion on the optional protocol is the competence of the foreign minister. Personally, I had not fully established the relationship between the vote on this bill and knowing what is going on with the optional protocol, but that is, of course, a trade-off that groups themselves can make. Mr. Chairman. Let me at least say that I take the message 'not about us, but with us' very seriously. At the same time, I know you never have enough consultation. No matter how many personal conversations you have with people, there are always people you haven't talked to, given the size of the target group. I think you recognize that, too. Having said that, I would like to point out that the discussions with people from the target group, as well as with interest representatives, are very important in the formulation of policies and that we have discussed this with people at various times, for example in the policy review, where complexity emerged, but also in the reflection on the right of survival. I think it's one of the best examples of what I have experienced myself as Secretary of State, that we've literally asked people: what's stopping you from getting to work? The financial incentives mentioned by Mrs Sent are therefore not sufficient. Then people come out: "the fear of not being allowed to go back" or "now things are going well in my life, but what if things get worse next year?" This possibility of revival has thus literally come from the contributions of clients themselves. I just think it's extremely important that it is. For me, it's a very precious part of this law. I also say right away that when you talk to people, unfortunately, it does not always mean that you come to an agreement. Indeed, we have a number of points that have also been highlighted by the communication with your Chamber of Commerce on which we disagree with, for example, representatives of interests or people from the target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u190	A very short question. As far as I'm concerned, the Secretary of State is very easily pointing to the US Secretary of State. Isn't he the coordinating minister for the UN Disability Convention and not the executive minister in this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u191	That's right. That is why I was present at the debate, because work had an important place in it. But the questions here are really about the position of the College in relation to the Convention and also about the review of legislation. I know that a number of colleagues are working on this from their portfolio, so I cannot anticipate that. But I'm gonna pass it on to them. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of communication. A number of Members have asked questions about this, even in the written round. I do not think we can emphasise enough how important it is for information to be accessible and clear, especially if we were to implement the bill. "Implementing" is another one of those words that you shouldn't really use if you want to communicate clearly. But this point really has my full attention, especially because there is great unrest among a group of Wajangers and people in their surroundings. Yeah, we started a communication trajectory with the UWV. And yes, we do that by involving people from the group and asking: "If we present this message to you, do you understand? Is that gonna help you? And do you know what you're up to?" At the UWV there is at least the direction of communication when it comes to the question: what are the consequences for me personally as Wajanger? At the UWV the professionals started to work with this, also with the quality, I can point in the direction of Mrs Stienen. It is about providing general information: what the UWV.nl website looks like, articles in UWV Perspective, the Wajong forum of the UWV, which is really very busy being visited and read, and of course also information from the website reichsoverheid.nl. People can ask questions by phone via the customer contact centre of the UWV. And we went with specific groups within the Wajong to see which themes are specific to those groups and how best to inform people. And yes, we also have a client panel and a client board. That might be a bit of management jargon, but I mean by saying that we're trying to give people messages that might help them. About the calculation tool, we agreed that I would come back to it or I could do it sooner. The combination calculator, as I say in the direction of Mrs Stienen, is being tested at least at the moment. This indeed concerns, as Mrs De Bruijn pointed out, the broad-based motion of Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan in the House of Representatives which called for attention to communication and information. Some of your MPs, Mrs Stienen, but also Mr Ester, asked if we could pay extra attention to language and its empathy. Because you don't really get very happy with all the words used in legal texts. I would also like to say here that a lot of the formulas we are discussing here today are in the underwater shield. We really pay a lot of attention to that. I am committed to making an extra effort, because the importance of communication can never be overestimated. Some of your MPs have also asked questions about the implementation. If the examination of the bill would be completed before 1 June 2020 and it would please your Chamber to take it positively, the bill could be introduced as of 1 January 2021. This applies to all measures. I say in the direction of Mrs Stienen that we find it extremely crowded at the UWV, because of the pressure on all emergency measures. But that increased pressure doesn't affect the implementation process we're planning here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u192	Is my information incorrect that an earlier execution test of the UWV showed that the UWV had to have clarity before 1 March 2019 in order to introduce this as of 1 January 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u193	The date of 1 March was important for the implementation as of 1 July. So if we had reached 1 March, the study measures could have been introduced by 1 July 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u194	I have read literally in the execution test of the UWV: condition for the feasibility of 1 January 2021 is that the UWV is commissioned to start implementing the proposal before 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u195	I say what I have just said to you: the facts must be correct, so I will check them for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u196	I'm interrupting. May I ask the members to keep a foot and a half away? Mr. Van Gurp, please keep a foot and a half away. That's what we agreed, for your own safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u197	Attention has also been paid to the entry into force of the measures. The earliest date of implementation is now 1 January 2021. In that context, I was asked whether this study could be brought forward. The Chamber may well know that there is often the category: it could not, but it can. So I thought, "I'm gonna take a hard look at this, too." I have looked very carefully at it with the UWV, but a lot of system changes are needed. It is therefore not possible to highlight some of the measures. The manual decorating of the process is also not feasible. Any Wajanger who calls his contact should just get the right answer if he has a question about a study. That means this has to be known at every UWV office. That costs extra manpower that the UWV doesn't have right now, but those people should also be trained after they're attracted. So I'm really seeing bears on the road that I can't just push over; I'm also talking about a manual ICT adjustment and the like. What would then remain is the retroactive effect. That's what the Chamber asked for. I must say, however, that I did not get a green signal for that immediately. In fact, they wanted to put the signal on red immediately, because that too is error sensitive and manual. It is also going to lead to a higher income once in a while, which in turn has an impact on the surcharges. That is difficult, because in the same period we are working on fixing the amount of the guarantee. Those are the first signals I've received. I'd like to give them to the Chamber, because I also wanted to find something that might make this possible. But they were not yet to be applauded. I understand that, too, because we ask a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u198	It may not be about those people cheering, but that we are trying to offer some comfort to the Wajangers. I understand that it's all very complicated, but I don't think it's very convincing. It is not a measure that costs money, first of all, but the second is that, if things had gone as they were planned, that arrangement would already have entered into force. Then the UWV should now also have presorted to put all kinds of things into effect in order for the group to be eligible for the scheme. I am not convinced of the strength of the arguments. There's no way I'm gonna be convinced that there's signs on red. I challenge the Secretary of State to choose between benevolent creativity or creative benevolence, but still take another step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u199	I hear what Mr Ester is saying. I'm really willing to address all the creativity I have, but in the end, it has to be possible. However, I hear very clearly what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u200	I was also questioned in the first term by Mrs Sent about numbers. I understand how complicated that is now, but I am still very curious if we can get an insight into which group the group would be from 1 August or 1 September, then the year of study starts until 31 December 2020 really falls between ship and ship. That's a group, isn't it? This measure is about inspiring people and encouraging them to develop. It's gonna be really hard for them in the next few months and then they're gonna have another problem with their Wajong benefit getting lower because they're gonna go to college. I do not find that very motivating, and in fact contrary to the spirit of this law. How many people are involved and can we do something for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u201	There is no lack of willingness. We know that there are quite a lot of people who have indicated that they want to study, but do not dare. So it may be that we have to take into account dozens or hundreds of people and given the situation perhaps more. I can't give you the answer to that. We didn't hold a poll or people would want to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u202	Is there perhaps something to do in the sphere of creativity? I don't know exactly what Mr Ester called it anymore, but I'm talking about contacts with universities, schools, representations and so on. Because, of course, it is also important for society that we show that people from this group can also study and receive training. So what contacts can we make with the associations of interests in secondary education and the university union? Maybe they'd like to think along with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u203	I totally get it and I'm always willing to see if more creativity is possible. I do see that this is a priority for the Chamber. That's good to know, too. However, the implementation deadline of 1 January is inherent in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u204	Let me say a few words, because I do not want people to bear the consequences of the fact that the proposal has been in the Chamber for quite a long time. This is indeed an important arrangement. Let me take a look at a solution direction. This is actually a group that has a Wajong benefit. Right now, when they go to college, they get cut short. How easy is it to just say: okay, the Wajong benefit is continuing? They don't even have to report that they're going to college. So I don't see the complexity, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u205	Let me put it this way: after a few weeks of corona-crisis conversations, logical things in the execution just turn out to be very difficult, if only due to manual ICT adjustments. I do not want to fail colleagues in the implementation, because they are all working very hard and everyone wants to do so. But what was it again? Between dream and deed are laws and other practical objections. The date of introduction of this law is a very practical objection. Mr President, I shall now come to the conclusion. I think you'll be pleased. I have already had an exchange of views with Mr Ester on the evaluation. Then I come to the question by Mr Van Pareren, who, as far as I am concerned, simply came out of the heart to change the name of this law into law empowering young people with disabilities. I know that the word 'empowerment' may not count on everyone's approval, but what is behind it, of course, is what I taste widely here and what drives me, namely that we are going to look at what people can rather than what people can't. I feel very strongly about that, but at the same time, of course, I cannot simply change the name of a law. What I do want to do is ask Wajangers how they look at this. We're talking to the target group. They're all about everything. Now it's mostly about the law, but we're going through with it. In communication, too, we will focus on the possibilities. So I'd like to work in the spirit of his speech. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ester had asked another question. There is a change to an appropriate job offer. What difference does that make in the perspective of the Wajanger? This bill removes the obligation in the Wajong 2010 to accept an appropriate job offer as a condition for the right to income support, as this obligation did not work in practice. So she didn't have the intended effect either. Instead, the Wajong 2010 obligation to accept an appropriate job offer becomes a condition in the deployment of reintegration by the UWV. Actually, from the point of view: it's voluntary, but if you say yes, it's not noncommittal. That's kind of the thought behind it. We don't want to keep something in the air that doesn't work, but on the other hand: when people get to work at the UWV to help you get to work, there's something on the contrary. So: voluntary, not noncommittal. Then Mr Ester would have asked about the real length of work of Wajangers. By the end of 2018, more than 39,000 people worked at a regular employer. Of these, 29% had an appointment of up to 12 hours per week, 16% had an appointment of between 12 and 20 hours, 17% had an appointment of more than 20 to 30 hours, and 38% had an appointment of more than 30 hours per week. But to what extent that corresponds to the hours that they can work, on the basis of the available information, cannot be traced. Then Mrs Oomen had asked about the gratifications and the settlement of the benefit. The injustice drips off when you hear and see and read the messages. The explanation makes sense, because if you change this, you have to adjust it for all the Dutch. It also has to do with the fact that people receive untested benefits. After all, we have gone in search of ways, including with our colleagues in the finance sector, to offer us something of a solace. Employers do, however, have the choice to charge compensation and benefits to employees of the so-called free space in the cost of work scheme. If they do, the compensation will not be offset against the Wajong benefit. I am talking to the UWV about how this can be brought to the attention of employers who employ a Wajanger. Mrs Oomen would also have asked about the employment discount. That is a subject that is separate from this law, but which has also been discussed in the House of Representatives. This law is not about the employment discount, because it really is about taxation. In proportion to the income from work, Wajongers benefit from a higher employment discount. But because they are dealing with a system of pay dispensation and therefore partly generate income from work and partly benefit income, they have less benefit, which is true, I say in the direction of Mrs Oomen-Ruijten than someone with a full wage income. But they do benefit more from it than someone with a full benefit income. In the end, the problem has also emerged because the cabinet has made efforts to make work pay more than income support in the form of a benefit. My predecessor has already dealt with this issue and she has informed the Chambers not to amend it. I repeat that, but I would add that there are other issues that still have a role to play in the income of the Wajanger, for example the young disabled discount and also the needy allowance. Mr President, I should like to conclude. I had started with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u206	Before the Secretary of State comes to the final conclusion of the first term, I should like to know what the balance sheet of this first term is so far. I hear a great deal of sympathy from the Secretary of State for what we are talking about, but for the rest I actually hear that the bill remains what it is. I'm taking it in broad terms now. It may be that I didn't get it right. That is why the following questions are addressed to the Secretary of State. Is the Secretary of State, heard this Chamber, prepared to do something on four points? Is it prepared: firstly, to address the negative effects of Wajangers with medical hours limitation, as this is discussed by many groups; maintain previous commitments on the continuing working arrangements; make the coronaproof scheme; And find a solution for Wajongers in college, so they don't get cut short? The Secretary of State will have to do something about that if she does not want to make a tombola out of the result of the vote. I believe that these four points can be resolved within the framework of the law. It requires creativity, as I said earlier, and several colleagues have pointed out, but we will then come to an arrangement that is acceptable to Parliament and to those who have an interest in it. My question to the Secretary of State is: can we expect anything from the Secretary of State on the four points I just mentioned? Perhaps this can be done using the dinner break, so that there can be some further discussion between the Secretary of State and her officials. Can we expect from the Secretary of State in the second term on these points?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u207	Mr. Chairman. I have also indicated at the outset that the current situation, in which three different Wajong regimes with about 11 regulations make it inexplicable what the same situation means for two different people, demonstrates the enormous need to get to work on this. You might wonder what the problem is, if it's personally understandable to you. But the current rules really hinder about 60,000 people from entering the labour market. As far as I am concerned, there is something at stake, even if you look at what can happen if this law does not go through. The Wajong doesn't disappear, because they have people, but then we keep those huge obstacles. A lot of people in the target group are under 35 years of age and have work capacity. They can really work with this law and do whatever work has to offer. So I think there's really something at stake. Then what's at stake? As far as I am concerned, the protection of people who are already working. People with medical hours limitations don't go backwards, because they have a guarantee scheme. Even if they lost their jobs now, they would fall back on the Wajong level of 70% wml. That is no different in the new situation, because the law does not change the situation, but that can also be due to a fact of life. But to protect them, we have that guarantee scheme. I am convinced that we can do a great deal in a year's time. I am certainly prepared to see with your Chamber how we can support the system with corona measures, as we do self-employed entrepreneurs, and the food bank. I'm willing to do that. But my plea has always been: do not do that in the arrangement. In reply to the questions about working arrangements, I indicated 'because I certainly do not want to play hide-and-seek in this Chamber 'that something is changing in the perspective to the negative for the group of people who work, although it has not been said that it is by definition negative; it can also be positive. But where there is more to this law than just the perspective of a continuing working arrangement. Considering everything at the bottom of the line, I am certainly also willing to see if we can do something for this group, which would have an insight into the continuing working arrangements but now wondering what is happening, in the service provided by the UWV. It was originally about their income position and their employment position. You know me: I like concrete, so that is exactly what I mean. When it comes to studying Wajongers I indicated that I would very much like to see what can be done; but so far I have received signals that the signals are on red. As far as coronaproof is concerned, I've indicated that I'm ready for anything that will help us through this crisis. If you appreciate that, I would still like to advise this Chamber that the legislative proposal at the bottom of the line is a step forward for people who are dependent on the scheme, but still want to work. All this is also taking into account the treatment in this Chamber and the accents you have put, which has also led us to agree that we are going to make a substantial assessment of the intentions of the law. That really comes on top of what was said in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u208	The Secretary of State says: you know me, I'm concrete. I note specifically that there is a legislative proposal and that the Secretary of State, with all the understanding she has for all of us, says: this is what it will be, because that is what is best. The Secretary of State may think so, but the reality is that a large number of groups here in this House say: we do not think that is enough. On those four points I mentioned, we want to see movement by the Secretary of State. Then you can choose to wait for the vote, but then the end result could indeed be that there is a law going through which a large part of this Chamber and also the field actually have problems with it, or that the law is rejected, which removes the many positive aspects contained in this bill. Then it is up to politics to be creative and to ensure that the law can continue its improvements without its deterioration? The VVD colleague just said that sometimes things aren't that complicated. I thought she was setting an example. I also think it might not be so complicated: if the deteriorations disappear and the improvements continue, we have a law against which I think almost this entire Chamber can say yes. I hope the Secretary of State will use the dinner break and the second term to see if we can find a solution and not make a tombola out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u209	I propose that we close this first period now, and then continue with the second period after the dinner break and let these issues be addressed. If there's gonna be a lot of interruptions, I'm gonna suspend for dinner break and we're gonna continue with this term after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u210	It will be no surprise that, of course, I am also standing here to defend the cabinet proposal. I would like to say that I hope that my first term has contributed to the fact that a number of issues that play a role in the discussion are in fact not correct, such as closing down at minimum wage level. That is not the case. If you had a medical hour restriction, you'd be falling back on it. No, because we have the guarantee amount. Even now you can lose your job and fall back on 70% of the wml. There are a number of things. I accept Mr Kox's outstretched hand. I keep thinking, but I hope that a number of groups in their final judgment will also take into account that they have also brought in a number of things that I have actually indicated are really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u211	Mr Koffeman and Mr De Vries, both of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u212	The Secretary of State points out that falsehoods would be told. I like having that taken away right away. The Secretary of State says she's very specific. This morning there was a story about Pim Boon, a lawyer at NVWA, in Trouw. He says: I have studied hard; I can only work 23 hours, because that's all I have and I'm already earning more than the minimum wage, but I'm about to lose my benefit. This has all kinds of practical consequences as of 2021. Is that a false story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u213	If the Chamber adopts the law, the UWV will consider on 31 December what it would earn if we applied the new rules. Given the situation, you know that I never go into personal situations, but I'm talking about what I've read about it now. I can just estimate that from the combination of things he gets more now than in the new situation. Then the amount of the guarantee applies. If you keep the same job and the same number of hours, that guarantee amount applies up to the retirement age. If you change jobs, you'll have 12 months after the WW time. Even now, someone could lose their job. Then it is also a question of whether you can find a new constellation in which the same income is generated by the support and the salary. It is a difficult distinction and I also understand that people have concerns about it, but it is good to distinguish those two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u214	Okay, but in that evaluation, you take into account that there will be some kind of hardness clause to prevent this kind of between shore and ship situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u215	In terms of income and employment rates, there are a number of objectives in this law. Since this is so broad, not only in the target group but also in politics, I would like to have tested those objectives. 'Cause maybe we should adjust. I'm not married to an arrangement. I always think that the system is there for the people and not the other way around. I'm sure it's gonna work, but I'll be the first to confess wrongly if I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u216	Finally, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u217	I note that the Secretary of State has argued with all her heart for the law and also wants to do everything in his power to ensure that people do not decline. But I also note that people are going down when this law is introduced. That is why I asked her whether she would like to amend this law by means of a commitment so that these people do not go into decline. I haven't heard an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u218	In the original proposal, situations were possible in which people could go backwards, but I think they were resolved with amendments in the debate in the House of Representatives. There was the amendment by Mr Renkema and Mr Gijs van Dijk: if you worked more than four days with pay dispensation, you did not get your job pay; that has been restored. People who are permanently disabled wouldn't survive if they occasionally made some money; that too has been restored. With the warranty period, which is made personal for everyone, the UWV is going to make a calculation for everyone in the autumn, if necessary up to your retirement age, which is most beneficial to you: what the new law delivers or how it is now. With that, I dare say that people do not go backwards. I am talking here about: in a material sense compared to 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u219	Finally, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u220	You have indicated that there is going to be a calculation tool, but then it is strange that a lot of people who are now in the Wajong are seriously worried that they are going backwards. Then where did that come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u221	I understand... Let me put it this way. This is a scheme for people who generally don't think: hey, the government comes up with something new; it'll be something nice for me. These are people who have to deal with a lot of regulations in many areas of their lives. A change was not always an improvement. Often it was also a disguised or even a public austerity. I understand you'll be leaving from a certain position when that government comes up with something new. I take every concern I hear about that seriously. It's hard to judge it personally. I can say something about the income and basic benefit, but people also have to deal with a different form of supplement, for example because they live together or are married. People may have a disability allowance, people may have to deal with the disability allowance in taxation. That makes it so difficult, also in combination with the number of hours you work, to determine what it means to you. That's why it's so complex. We would like to help people in that, but if you look at the income distribution and support benefit sec, you can say: what you have now or it becomes more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u222	Mr De Vries, can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u223	Then I'll conclude there won't be a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u224	Then we're gonna suspend this term. We're not gonna wrap it up. We'll continue with the second term at 7:30. The intention was to suspend, but if there are any further interruptions, we will continue with that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u225	We're at the last piece of the first term on the side of the Secretary of State. There was another interruption by Mr Van Pareren. I am happy to give him the floor. The Secretary of State had almost completed her first term, so we can go to the second term. Mr Van Pareren had another interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u226	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are now so close to the second term that I might as well start my second term right away. It will have about the same content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u227	I'm not gonna protest that. I'll take a look around. Then we come to the end of the first term of office of the government and we are now in the second term of office. I repeat to Members that, in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself and then put it on the left of you on the table next to the speaker's seat. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I shall give the floor to Mr van Pareren in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I put it down for ten minutes. That's pretty fast right now. The Secretary of State is on that side. She's been moved, I see, with the cathedral. I have to say that I have raised a number of issues in the first place and I have taken into account the debate that has taken place in this Chamber so far. I miss a lot of questions that haven't been answered. I should say that I am missing a large number of answers to questions that I have asked and which have not been answered. I'm sorry, but so be it. Apparently, there was no reason to answer that. It could be. The President now asks what questions are involved. I'll get them. It may be that I didn't understand linguistically. I have received an answer to the question about the study which has also been mentioned by others and which has nothing to do with it. My question on austerity has been answered. But in answer to my question, what is the effect of the corona crisis? However, I think that people also want to have certainty at this time, because a group of people who are already in distress are so concerned about the law that is to come. In particular, I asked, and I am doing so again, whether you are prepared to compensate the people who are just between shore and ship. We had a whole discussion on this in the first term, but that was more of a wide-ranging discussion about what could not be done. There was also an appeal to creativity, but I didn't get along with it. We have not been convinced that this is in the barrel. That's too bad. I must also say that it is a pity that the Secretary of State does not see any possibilities for the guarantee scheme. That's very unfortunate. I would like to call her once again to look at this in this second term. However, I would like to hear an additional evaluation from the Secretary of State on this point. That was asked by others, too. My impression is that we have said a lot and that little concrete has come out of it. I'm very sorry about that. I'm sorry to hear that. In our group, we are going to make an assessment. I said very clearly this morning how important we think it is for these people to feel supported in their lives, in their ambition and in their unfortunately limited opportunities. We think it is important for them to be able to participate fully. I'll let it settle. I shall continue to discuss it with our group, as I said. We are going to make a judgment about that. However, I would like to mention the call for a little more clarification on whether you are prepared to do something about this compensation after dinner break. You might want to clarify that a little bit. In addition, there is the question about the guarantee scheme. I have heard a lot of explanations from you about the possibilities and, above all, the possibilities. It is and remains a special group. You have also made it clear before that you are dealing with many more types of groups. I don't want to fall short of the others, but I think these people have fallen into their personal situation without their own fault and without any direction whatsoever. That is what I want to say right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u229	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u230	Mr President, do I already have the floor? Thank you to the Secretary of State and its officials for answering our questions. Thank you also for the commitments she made. We are looking back at an important debate on a subject that affects us all: the woe and woe of young disabled people. That is a vulnerable group that we want to do justice to, especially in this time of crisis. We have all noticed that this is a debate that loosens the tongues of society, especially among Wajangers themselves and their parents. My group felt bound to give their assurance and clarity. We cannot allow the unrest to continue. Thank you also for the pleasant way of debating. It has done the debate well. My group is convinced that harmonisation is a good thing. It is simply no longer possible to defend that we have three Wajong regimes with different rights and obligations. We should have settled that in the 2015 Participation Act, but that is what the political leaders, I shall say, have left behind at that time. We are dealing with this now, together with the fact that the existing legislation is simply far too complicated. Mr. Chairman. We may also count our blessings. There are also clear pluses to this bill. There will be one scheme for Wajongers with labor power. That puts an end to unequal treatment. The personal income guarantee scheme is an essential provision from a security point of view, but it must be operationalised in a way that is crisis-proof and reflects today's debate. Mr Stienen will shortly be presenting a motion which my group wholeheartedly supports. It is also nice that the partner and income test is omitted. This may also be highlighted as an important point of profit. In our view, this is a pre that distinguishes the scheme from the welfare regime in the Netherlands. More work is going to be paid and there is a scheme for additional earnings. Again, those are winnings. Moreover, there is in itself a nice study scheme. What remains is the Wajong as benefit at the level of the social minimum for single people - 70% wml without additional discount tests. We found the Secretary of State's vision of the communication process convincing. The government really needs to show that she's a nearby government. She really needs to show her empathic side. Right now, we need to start talking to Wajangers and their parents. Thank you also for the commitment to consider whether the calculation tool can be brought forward. That can remove a lot of uncertainty and it's really less complicated than we think. Mr. Chairman. I would like to use two motions to take the cold out of the air on two issues which are high in my group, but also in the Chamber. This concerns first of all bringing out the training facility and determining more precisely the impact of the law on Wajangers. The Christian Union Group welcomes the new education system. There is no longer any reduction in benefits. It is precisely in times of crisis that training, knowledge maintenance and competence development are of great importance for vulnerable groups. We have discussed in detail that because the entry into force of the law has been postponed, no one else can do anything about it, and certainly the Wajangers are not eligible for this facility, as envisaged, as from the coming academic year. We understood that the Secretary of State felt that point and the argument, but she didn't really get over it. Hence this motion. With this motion, we want to send a positive social signal to Wajongers who are in training or want to go to study in the coming year. This signal is also very much in line with government policy on the activation of vulnerable groups through training and the maintenance of knowledge and skills. It is precisely in this crisis that we must continue to invest in maintaining Wajongers' core competences. Mr. Chairman. I can now read my first motion. The President used to do that, but that too is decentralised. The President shall: Mr Ester, Mr Stienen, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Schalk and Mr De Bruijn-Wezeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed harmonisation of the Wajong regimes means that the study will no longer result in a reduction in the Wajong benefit;]] [[noting that knowledge and competence development are essential elements of the cabinet's activation policy for vulnerable groups;]] [[noting that the initial date of entry into force of the measures on 1 July is not feasible;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a creative solution so that Wajongers can have access to the new study scheme at the start of the next academic year 2020-2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u231	Mr. Chairman. Since the precise effects of the law are not always clear, a sound monitoring system and a comprehensive evaluation of the functioning of the law are required. Only in this way do we get information whether the law affects certain groups of Wajangers more than others. The Secretary of State underlined this approach. In fact, uncertainty about these consequences runs as a thread through today's debate. We can't leave that hanging over the market. Only a timely and rigorous monitoring and evaluation of the effects of the Wajangers Act on groups can provide us, and especially them, with certainty. Only then will it become clear which Wajongers are improving or lagging behind. Only then will it become clear whether the adage of an inclusive and activating approach is real. Because it really has to be both an in-depth and a broad assessment, which should provide input for possible adjustments to the harmonisation arrangements and this is an issue that I shall table the next motion for a resolution. If it is true that certain Wajong groups are found to be out of the boat, we have here the coat rack to intervene in. Mr. Chairman. With this motion, I conclude my second term. Thank you. The President shall: Mr Ester, Mr Stienen, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Schalk and Mr De Bruijn-Wezeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the impact of the proposed harmonisation of the Wajong regimes on the target population of young disabled people should be clearly identified;]] [[Whereas negative effects should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government to closely monitor and comprehensively evaluate these impacts, including income effects, job opportunities, training and social participation;]] [[calls on the Government to report annually to the Court on the findings as from 1 July 2021 and to present possible improvements to the Wajong policy on the basis thereof and to discuss their implementation with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Mr Van Gurp has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State argues and fights like a lioness for her cubs, as the expression is. That's what she's doing. That's what that expression is about. At the level of that passion that is very binding. But at the level of content, there is going to be "at least" that is my perception and I have really tried very hard to listen to hardly or no handout to a large number of parties that have great concerns. So at the level of content it may be counterproductive: there is so much involvement, that the bridge is no longer being struck at the people who are close and who say "make one or two steps in my direction, then I can go one step in your direction." That is what our group, represented by myself here in this Chamber, has missed today. I'm just resuming where we are. There is a law that brings with it a number of improvements for a vulnerable group that we wholeheartedly support Chamberwide. It is also a law that brings with it a number of deteriorations that are being discussed, and which in any case is seriously affecting a large group of Members of Parliament. We've been watching: is it possible, somehow, to take away the pain in the area of those deteriorations and make a move so that we can support the bill with all of us? The Secretary of State's argument for barely moving in in my view has to do with balance. She says: it is always a balance between security and participation. At system level, I understand that, and that is what I said in the interruption. But then the question is how does that balance work out for the different groups we are dealing with here. For our group, it is difficult to digest the fact that in at least two areas the balance is going to go to uncertainty for groups that have not asked for it; I say it myself. This is so in the area of continuing working arrangements. Mrs Oomen has spoken very well and rightly about this, and I fully agree with her. It also applies to the perspective of people with medical hours limitation. No, they do not go backwards immediately; there is also a guarantee scheme. But that guarantee scheme is so tight that there are a lot of concerns about it. A substantial extension of the guarantee scheme would at least remove some of the concerns about it. Then I do not want to say that we are entirely at our initial starting point, and then we are not in the alternative formula that we would like to embrace. But you'd be a long way off. If it is arranged for the continuing working arrangements and there would be a three-year guarantee period, then you're talking in a different context than when you say: well, we all don't know, let's make a proper evaluation. That is really not enough for us. I've crossed out a lot. Of course, it must be done very quickly in such a second term. I wanted to confine myself to the essentials. I'm gonna make the call one more time anyway. As far as we are concerned, it is possible to regulate it with a little creativity. In part, I agree with Mr Ester, who worked on this training scheme on behalf of the Christian Union. You could see if there are any elements you can bring forward. Then I'm thinking about the education scheme with him. You'd prefer to have it started immediately, so that it applies for the coming academic year. The rest of the law, which is actually uncontested, can just go into 1-1, because that's the starting date. Could there also be a piece of the law, where there is a great deal of abdominal pain for a large number of groups, and I have just mentioned the points that we are not going to go into until after we have come up with some further proposals? We cannot do that anymore with amendments. All we can do is ask the Secretary of State if she wants to look at it that way. That would serve the good. It would serve the very good even very quickly. The Secretary of State says that things are going well with evil, but in any case expectations and perspectives are being crossed. In any case, it would give us the opportunity to discuss this with each other very critically, but also with the interest groups. I'm always in favour of good evaluations and good monitoring, but that's more. I'm just saying that. I shall repeat it a number of times in this Chamber. That's the kind of thing you have to do. But I don't like to say: you know, we're not getting it right now and for all kinds of political reasons we're saying yes, we're doing an evaluation in a year's time, and if there's pain, we'll see. I don't think that's the way. You have to take care of it in front, so you have a really good feeling about it. Then, of course, you have to evaluate and monitor. In this respect, it is a pity if the concern I share very much with and recognize at D66 and ChristianUnion is translated into a serious monitoring process, but on the basis of an arrangement on which that care is fully based. That's what I wanted to say in my second term. It's an ultimate attempt. We get there, we get there. If we don't get there, I really don't know what's going on and I'm curious as to what fate the bill is in. That's not a threat from me. I also think, "Do something." That might help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u234	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. I call Mrs Sent on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions. I have listened carefully and I am disappointed to note that there is very little movement in our direction from the Secretary of State. Parliamentary concerns have been expressed about groups that are deteriorating as a result of the present legislative proposal. In particular, concerns have been expressed about the impact on people with medical hours limitation and the consequences of abolishing the continuing working arrangements. I was not allowed to hear any promises from the Secretary of State. Parliamentary attention has been drawn to the impact of the corona crisis and has been requested to encourage study in the shortest possible time. Here too, unfortunately, I have to conclude with Mr Van Pareren of the Forum for Democracy that the Secretary of State has not met the Chamber on any of these points. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the points raised by my group. On a number of points, as I have indicated, the proposal before us represents an improvement. This can count on our warm support, in particular the fact that Wajongers who are going to study can in future retain their full benefit. But in our view it cannot be the case that a number of groups are declining, especially within this vulnerable group. It is indigestible that a number of groups are declining as a result of the present legislative proposal. We do not understand that the Secretary of State in her reply only looks at the groups that are making progress. The particular situation is that there is an alternative formula available which is widely supported. The Secretary of State is critical of this alternative formula, but I do not understand how this broad support relates to the critical remarks made by the Secretary of State. And how can it be that the broad support for her proposal is not reflected in the many reports we have received from those involved? Against the background of the corona crisis, we have called for attention to be paid to the period of the guarantee amount. I think 12 months is a short period of time anyway, and in the context of the corona crisis, this point has become even more pragmatous. We weren't allowed to see any movement by the Secretary of State on this. Mr. Chairman. We have drawn attention to the broad advice of the College of Human Rights. We have no choice but to conclude that the bill is slashing with the UN Disability Convention. We think that a reference to the VWS Minister as responsible minister is too non-binding. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a conclusion. Workers with disabilities should not be discriminated against in terms of salary due to reduced working capacity due to their disability. However, many people with disabilities cannot make enough hours to reach the statutory minimum wage, but work according to their ability. The minimum wage should then be declared applicable. For the PvdA the solution is simple; I have already put it forward in the first period. Make the guarantee a real guarantee that always lives again. Maintain the continued regime for people with medical hours limitation. Give disabled people a little income when they find a job. Only then will we become an inclusive society with compassion. The present legislative proposal contributes only a limited amount to this. The Secretary of State has not met the Chamber on any of the points. In doing so, I do not have sufficient confidence in the effectiveness of the well-meaning motions that are going to monitor afterwards and then consider whether additional measures should be taken. If it stays the way it is, then I can only advise my group to vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mrs Stienen, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u237	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and all her colleagues behind the scenes for the enormous work she has done to explain to us in a clear way what she thinks is going on with the harmonisation of this legislation. We see an open eye, an open ear, an open heart and also a clear head when it comes to the concerns in society and also in this Chamber about this harmonisation. My group believes, and we already thought, that this harmonisation is a good thing for many people in the Wajong and that there can be good effects. The assumption under this harmonisation is that there are 60,000 people who now have work power but who are not yet participating, at least not through a job, because they are afraid that a single hour of work will have a huge impact on them. We sincerely hope that this law will do something for this group of people. As people say, we want to, but we don't always dare. However, my group remains concerned about the unexpected negative effects this harmonisation could have. People could go backwards. The Secretary of State hasn't made it prettier than it is. We also understand very well that sometimes there may be circumstances in life that cause someone to lose a job and that that has income effects, but that does not necessarily have to do with the letter of this law. That is why we are also pleased that the Secretary of State has destroyed a number of images. My colleague from the VVD, Mrs De Bruijn, has also pointed out that in the social unrest there have been a lot of images where facts and assumptions started to get mixed up. Thank you for the clarification provided by the Secretary of State, for example, that it is possible to earn more than the statutory minimum wage and that, where possible, a guarantee amount will be fixed. This guarantee amount can be invoked for a lifetime if there is a possible income decline. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to respond to Mrs Sent. She asked me about change of size and how much it was. I've got a lot of people working for me. Mrs Sent, I would like to hear it from you, and perhaps the Secretary of State can help me with that, because I have heard percentages of 32% of a certain group above 100% of the wml. Mr Van Pareren spoke of 23,000 people. This is kind of hard for me. I share Mrs Sent's concern that it is difficult that we do not know exactly who this is about. That is why I welcome the motion by the Christian Union colleague on monitoring and evaluation. Measuring is certainly not always known, but we still need to understand whether the assumption under this harmonisation of the Wajong is correct and whether this is indeed going to increase the participation of people with working capacity who are now in the Wajong. Mr. Chairman. We also regret that the Secretary of State is unable to find room. This is not directly a reproach to her, but this is more of a observation about the system. We are talking about red traffic lights when we try to find room for young people who are in the Wajong and want to study next fall. It really hurts us that nothing can be arranged for that. I have a daughter who's studying. We all have young people in our environment who can enjoy education. I just got an e-mail: "Would you please make a call?" My plea to the Secretary of State is: what can happen? Stop lights that are on red can go from orange to green. We've seen that in the past few months. That is also one of the reasons why, as a group, we have signed the motion by the Christian Union on the study. We welcome the Secretary of State's commitment that she already wants to get to work on the calculation tool, the calculation tool. Can we just call it "the calculator"? This will certainly help to clarify the individual effects for people in the Wajong and what this harmonisation means to them. We also hear that the Secretary of State will do everything in his power to ensure that the contact with the people in the Wajong takes place in a dignified manner around the communication that is coming and about the implementation of this law. I think it's a nice "not about them, without them." In addition, there is a magic word, namely the word "attention." It doesn't cost anything, if you don't have to write hours and minutes. But attention to these people, including in implementation, is very important for my group. It is precisely in this very difficult time, when we all have concerns about what this enormous crisis is going to mean to ourselves at micro level, but also to others, to our society and to the world, that is very important. It has proved to us, Chamberwide, that there is a great need for the Secretary of State to examine how this guarantee scheme can be crisis-proof. She calls it "stuff." We have another word for that. I'd like to read the next motion. The President shall: Mr Stienen, Mr Ester, Mr Moonen, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Oomen-Ruijten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed harmonisation of the Wajong regimes has an income guarantee scheme for Wajongers currently working;]] [[Whereas the corona crisis will dramatically worsen Wajongers' labour market opportunities;]] [[Whereas it is important to understand the labour market position of Wajangers as quickly as possible in this crisis period;]] [[Calls on the Government to inform this Chamber in the summer of 2020 on how it will work in 2021 to strengthen the resilience of the guarantee scheme and, if necessary, to use its powers as State Secretary to temporarily extend the duration of the guarantee scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u238	I'd like to leave it at that. I thank the Secretary of State for her input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u239	Was that the end of your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u240	Yes, that was the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u241	I have another question about the guarantee scheme. I note from Mrs Stienen's input that she has the impression that this guarantee scheme is lifelong. But this guarantee scheme is a transitional arrangement with a period of 12 months. Does Mrs Stienen think that this is a fair and reasonable arrangement which applies for 12 months and not for life?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u242	I understand that Mrs Sent is asking me for clarification. I was talking about the amount of the guarantee and not about the guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u243	It can go to the end. This depends on what the change in the situation is. So in that sense, it is a transitional arrangement. I have one more question for Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u244	Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u245	We have both drawn attention in our first term to three groups that are potentially deteriorating. I am not convinced by the answers given by the Secretary of State that the assessment that these groups are potentially deteriorating is incorrect. On what basis is Mrs Stienen convinced that the reasoning that these three groups are potentially deteriorating is not correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u246	I think we have a clear explanation here as to why I'm with D66 and Mrs. Sent at the PvdA. I hear the Secretary of State say that there could be a decline; then we have a guarantee for that and then we can compensate for that. I've been thinking a little bit about it. What do you call it? Pareto principle. I know of another Pareto principle: that with 20% bets you can sometimes get 80% out of it. The Secretary of State says that a very large group of people are making progress and that they expect a small group of people to go backwards. I would really like to hear from the Secretary of State if there are any possibilities of compensating for this income loss. Can she clarify that? That is very important for me and my group. That's what we're worried about, too. I share your concern, but we're making a different assessment. That's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u247	The point is that the careful examination of the various schemes alone indicates that groups are declining. Then I do not understand what the confidence is based on that will not happen. If you look at the arrangements and the details of them alone, you can see that, especially in this vulnerable population, groups are declining.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u248	That is the beauty of this debate: that we do not always understand each other, because we look at reality in a different way and interpret facts in a different way. So, yes, that's where we differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u249	I have a question for Mrs Stienen about discretion. I don't know how far it stretches. The moment we deploy them, as stated in the motion, you don't yet know where that discretionary power leads. So can you indicate what you ultimately intend to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u250	As my group sees it, this motion aims at the Secretary of State informing the Chamber before the summer of 2020 of its analysis of the labour market position now and also with a look forward to later, because I think she already has a lot of information on this. How is the labour market position of people in the Wajong now and what is the corona crisis going to mean for the labour market position, which is likely to get worse? How does she estimate that? And this motion also aims to ensure that the Secretary of State also includes in that analysis how, should it get much worse, she will use the powers she has in 2021. This may be a repair law or emergency measures which extend the deadline; this may not necessarily be done by six or twelve months, but on the basis of data. So that's how we want to point out our motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u251	Mr. Schalk, one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u252	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. This discretionary power can lead to this, but it may also be that a completely different choice is being made. That is interesting in itself, but at the time we are talking about that warranty period, I think that you are also referring to that too. It would be very good if you gave a clear order for that discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u253	We are looking at how our state system works, but I do not think that we can give a clear mandate to the Secretary of State in this way. That is why we call on the Secretary of State to use this discretionary power in a creative way, in such a way that people can really benefit from it and find real comfort in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u254	Thank you. I call Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u255	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for her detailed reply. The words and attitude of the Secretary of State show her commitment to her portfolio in general and to this target group, people with disabilities, in particular. At the same time, it turns out how stubborn the reality is in which you would like to do the right thing. Today's debate shows that again. We would all like nothing more than for everyone with disabilities to be able to participate fully in society. One places the emphasis on the financial framework conditions, the other on the conditions for full participation, but both are of course relevant in conjunction. Perhaps there would have been something to say to discuss the whole of the announced Breed offensive package in conjunction here, because Wajangers, I repeat, want nothing more than to go to power. In the end, this also offers them a perspective to improve their income position. Unfortunately, the prospect of jobs for this target group is currently under additional pressure, as a new economic crisis is emerging. That is why I call on the Secretary of State to step up the legislative process in the broad offensive for this group in the first term. Then hopefully we can talk about that soon in this Chamber. I had asked, among other things, when the Secretary of State expects that legislation to reach this Chamber. Another question has been asked to you by Mrs Sent. It has been said many times today: facts matter. Mrs Sent embarrassed me for just a moment when she said that under a certain scheme, I believe that the continuing working arrangements would be able to retain €0.50 of each euro earned, whereas it would now be €0.30. I've seen that come by somewhere before, but I've been preparing this bill six months ago, so I can't reproduce where this came from anymore. I hope the Secretary of State can still help me with that. Then there is the debate so far. I would like to discuss this on the basis of a number of motions that have already been tabled and a number of comments from colleagues, which I would like to go into a little more detail. Probably more motions are being tabled, but I can't take them with me yet. I'll come back to that next week. First of all, on the motion for a resolution on the monitoring of Mr Ester. We have already indicated that it is important to monitor the current situation properly. I shall put this motion to my group with a positive basis. The same applies to Mr Ester's motion on study facilities. Mr Ester suggested to the Secretary of State to find a creative solution. I probably think it's too simple, but I don't think it's that difficult. The people who would like to study as of September 1st already have a Wajong benefit. Then why would we bother? We can just say, okay, you can keep it when you go to college. It may be a bit more complex, but one possibility might be to introduce a tolerance structure specifically for this group. The Secretary of State can then say: this group can indeed retain the benefit if one goes to study on 1 September, but we are not going to have to maintain it because the scheme will only enter into force on 1 January. That makes it very difficult anyway, because then you may also have to pay back things. Perhaps that is an opportunity within the creative story that Mr Ester is asking for. In any case, a solution can be offered to this group. Let me turn to Mrs Stienen's motion, which seeks to find a solution to making the guarantee scheme more crisis-proof and gives the Secretary of State discretion to do so. I await the answer from the Secretary of State, but we also want to try to find a solution to this. Depending on the answer, I will put that motion to my group with a positive basic attitude. A number of other motions may be tabled, including by Mr Schalk, but I do not think it is appropriate to respond to them now. Then there is the perspective on the continuing working arrangements, as Mrs Oomen has pointed out. I have problems with that, because it would be a special figure in the legislative process if you offered compensation to people who in fact do not yet use a particular scheme. As sympathetic as it may be, because people may have certain expectations, to help them, I think it would be a very special one in the legislative process if we were to compensate people for something they do not have yet. I can also imagine that the other legislation is going to drive us in that direction when we are going to solve this issue in that way. I have considerable legal objections to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u256	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. Mrs Oomen has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u257	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a request I just received from someone who's listening. It is asking me to make a point of order here. We shouldn't be talking about Wajong regimes anymore. Why? Because this has no positive connotation. It seems a bit dictatorial, and that is not what the one mentioned. I have raised it here, Mr President, thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State. Sensitive and compassionate; thank you. I simply note that we have not been given that commitment in the areas where a commitment has been requested. Me neither. Let me be clear: the CDA Group is in favour of harmonisation. The CDA fraction is for a tip. The point is that we are going to come up with a system that is clear and simple. We know that every euro earned is left with €0.30. A high hourly wage is more than a low hourly wage. That's clear. This also means that Breman, mate and medical hours are abolished. It does mean that we have a guarantee scheme. That guarantee scheme, reformed in the Lower House, remains in place. One can keep it until one is 65. At the same time as we start to work the same and receive the same hourly wage, the guarantee scheme remains in place. I note that and I say this to anyone else who thinks that we are doing something very inauspicious with this arrangement. Mrs De Bruijn said: this continued working arrangements, I cannot imagine. But we made a cut. We have a guarantee scheme for everyone. Let's not talk about the corona effects. We have a guarantee scheme for everyone, but not just for this group. This group started in 2014 and it has been thought: in 2021 I have my seven years full and at that time I get the guarantee on the minimum wage. This is the case for the 2021, 2022 and 2023 groups. I have been very accommodating, but I am very sorry that the Secretary of State does not give any commitment on that point. Then I'll get to the calculator. I welcome the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u258	Mrs Oomen states that there is a guarantee scheme for everyone. No, there's just a guarantee scheme for people who work. I understand that this group, which is in the lead time to the continuing working arrangements, is in a working arrangement and is working in it. They are covered by the guarantee scheme of the working scheme, but not by the continuing working scheme. So anyone who works is entitled to the guarantee scheme; this group too. But what you want to add is that they are therefore also eligible for something they do not yet have. I cannot imagine a precedent in which this has happened before, so we are going to compensate citizens for something that they simply do not have in the case of legislative change. So that's my objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u259	They do have this. Since 2010-2014, if you work for seven years at least 20%, you have a perspective on that extended wml scheme. The perspective is there. But now, because of the change of law, three years are missing. I'm not asking you to keep doing that forever. No, I say: I would like to see this law for that group, which is now being beaten hard, without any guarantee and no longer entitled to that minimum wage, which is being compensated for for for three years. That's all I'm asking. For the rest, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u260	I don't think I can convince Mrs. Oomen. I made my comment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u261	Maybe Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u262	Mrs. Oomen has convinced me. I appreciate the enormous passion with which she brings this important point to the attention. I must also note that the Secretary of State has not moved on this point and I am very curious to see what lessons Mrs Oomen draws from the lack of movement by the Secretary of State on this important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u263	I will discuss that in my group. I can't tell you anything else. I know what I think, but I can't tie the other eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u264	What will Mrs Oomen then advise her group on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u265	We're gonna talk about that. I wasn't at the Wajong meeting myself today. We have all done it by e-mail and there has been some discussion in the group, but I was not there, so I am glad to be able to wait and see. I will do so with the same commitment as I do now, later in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u266	I would like to ask Mrs Oomen for an explanation of her very fervent, passionate and good story. Do I understand that by doing so, she also means to compensate those groups that are at risk of going backwards as a result of the coming of the new law? Or are you dealing with just one specific group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u267	This is a very specific group. I said that the abolition of all the schemes because we want to harmonise is offset by the guarantee scheme. You can comment on that, but okay, I'll take that. Having a new, harmonised policy, if I may put it that way, would be worth a sweet thing to me, because then we would no longer need these complicated things. This was about a calculation tool, but what kind of instrument is that? I know he was also in a motion from the VVD in the Lower House, so that calculation tool, Mr. Ester, has already been promised. That's no use to me. I want clarity. There is one group which, because of the fact that we are now accepting another scheme in 2020, is going down for three years. I'd like to compensate for that. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u268	Thank you for the further explanation. I understand that very well, that group. From the post that I get and which we all probably got, I bring out more groups, who say "I'm threatening to go backwards in income when the new law comes." Do you intend to ask for compensation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u269	No. In fact, it's already there. Look, abolishing the Breman scheme is a problem for new groups, but everything that is old is covered by the guarantee scheme. With this guarantee scheme, you can question the corona resistance or whatever, but everything that is old is included. But of this group we say: it was only an expectation that you have, and that expectation, we do not honor. There's my pain point. May I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u270	Yes, you may, but may I ask another supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u271	A very short one, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u272	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that you say: I want to compensate that very specific group. The rest is already compensated, so there is no need to worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u273	Yeah, look, he should be worried, because that compensation isn't forever either. At least, it is for eternity, provided you continue to work the same number of hours, are not fired, keep the same wage and so on. Then you'll keep that guarantee amount, too. But there's nothing for this group. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u274	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u275	And this group... Suppose that 20% works, the fifth part, then it has to be 1%, so they work 21%. If you look at the bubbles, it is said here: there is a guarantee for that, but it is nothing! So you're really getting pregnant, and I think the Secretary of State should run that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u276	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u277	Mr. Chairman. I asked about the gratification. I see that the Secretary of State refers to the employers, to the working wage scheme. I hope the House of Representatives will do something about that. The information will be picked up in time. I'm grateful for that. There's been a motion that I co-signed. We ask the Secretary of State to use discretion at a time when, in the summer, something is not going well, that more people are being fired if they think it is going to be the case now, so that does not really mean that guarantee. As far as I'm concerned, the Secretary of State doesn't have that discretionary power, other than that she has to enforce the law as soon as that law arrives. All she can do, then, is promise that she'll be willing to change the law as well. Actually, that's what I'd like to ask her. There is another point, which is about raising the level of education. What group are we talking about here? Are we talking about a group that already mentioned Wajong? I heard Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman say that this group does not yet have a Wajong, and I think it does. It is often a group involved in continuing vocational training. We would all like to be followed by HBO, wo or whatever, but I have the feeling that most of it is now in ordinary education and studying, and that is also possible with the Wajong. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Then Mr Ester's motion on monitoring and evaluation. What do you want with that? Do you want clarity and the Secretary of State to come up with a legislative amendment? Or don't you want to? If you don't want to, then I wonder what we can do if we evaluate if the law has already taken place. Mr. Chairman. I believe this was my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u278	Mr. Ester would like to respond briefly to his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u279	It is explicitly intended to monitor the consequences widely, and to intervene if there are negative consequences. It's not about monitoring and evaluating that is so much fun, it's about having a coat rack to intervene. I think that's exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u280	Yes, so you ask whether the Secretary of State is prepared to do so. If I just monitor and evaluate and then ask the group to give a positive opinion on it, and the Secretary of State already says that she is not prepared to amend a law that is not in force until 1 January, then it is no good, right? That's very important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u281	I've already said that in my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u282	Yes. Mr President, those were my comments. And thank you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u283	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u284	Yeah, one last question. With a great deal of passion, Mrs Oomen has defended the group that is eligible for the continued regime. Does she have that passion for the group for which the change of size disappears? Because that group also threatens to deteriorate as a result of the disappearance of this advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u285	If you had listened carefully, Mrs Sent, you would have heard that I accepted the cut. By accepting the cut, I know that, in the future, we may not have the same financial opportunity as we had, with all these various arrangements, but that there is a guarantee provision of those 12 months for each scheme as it is now. So you can't just unpack one like that and say, "They're going backwards." No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u286	However, it is also a group that went to study, assuming to be eligible for the change in size. This advantage disappears as a result of the present legislative proposal. This is comparable to the group that Mrs Oomen rightly calls for attention to be given to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u287	Mrs Sent, we want to get rid of all the complex arrangements that are now in place. I support the Secretary of State in that. We need to make it clear, simple and equal for everyone. This means that the person who is university-educated and who can earn more can possibly make more or less hours, in proportion to the income earned, also gets a new amount of what is left over. Those who are already in it, however, have a guarantee scheme. Same as before the Breman scheme. There's a guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u288	Mrs. Sent isn't? Thank you, Mrs Oomen. Then we will go to Mr Schalk, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I have noticed in her passionate speech that she is looking for the balance between income security and employment participation. I believe that today we have seen together that there are a number of very complex elements in this legislation. I had the impression that the Secretary of State saw it pretty well. Compliments for that, but it is a very difficult theme, especially because there are 60,000 Wajongers on the sidelines with everything we are doing right now. For them there are very important elements in this law. In addition, those who are at work must of course be positioned for the future. A number of topics have been discussed. I have, of course, listened with interest to the discussion on the continuing working arrangements and the discussion on the removal of rights versus the new perspective that would be offered. I have heard some say that the Secretary of State does not move at all, but as long as there is a second term, I always have good hope. So we're just gonna see if anything happens at that point. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the guarantee clause, we are still in a difficult situation. Under the same circumstances, I say that very clearly to the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, I would no longer have been insisting on the one-year deadline, but the figures are disturbing. After two months, only 20% have new work and after a year only 68% of the Wajangers have found new work. And that was in the time before the corona crisis. Well, in this debate I have seen two bright points. The first is the only commitment I have heard so far. That is the commitment of Mr Ester to a firm monitoring effort. The risk is that it will come a little late for the guarantee clause to act well, but it is important. The second bright spot I see is that the Secretary of State has indicated that she would like to push the legislation through the temporary adjustment. She doesn't want that in the arrangement. I understand that, and I'm not asking her to, because then she'd have to come up with a novelle. But it can be done in temporary emergency laws. This protruding measure can be helped by a clear motion on the issue of the guarantee provision. I would like to table that motion, Mr President. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Van Gurp, Mr Kox, Mr Koffeman and Mr De Vries proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the bill Further activation participation of young disabled people and harmonisation of Wajong regimes in the Lower House was adopted in 2019;]] [[noting that the economic conditions have now changed significantly as a result of the corona crisis, which has seriously deteriorated the starting position of Wajangers;]] [[Whereas the group concerned, which is normally already in a vulnerable position on the labour market, is at present even less likely to return quickly to paid employment;]] [[Whereas strong monitoring will allow early identification of the impact on the target group;]] [[calls on the Government to take temporary measures in the emergency legislation to temporarily extend the guarantee period for Wajongers at the time of the period of transition of the corona crisis to the economy and labour market for this target group to two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You could say that this motion not only requests something from the government, but also allows the government to act immediately when monitoring shows that something is needed. In the case of discretionary powers, you might have to go back to legislation or something like that, which would all take a lot more time. Mr. Chairman. Thank you again for the answers of the Secretary of State. I am also curious about the response to the motion before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u291	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u292	A very sympathetic motion. I am pleased that Mr Schalk is calling for attention to be paid to the particular circumstances and consequences of the proposal before us for the vulnerable group. It is true that this motion calls for legislation which must also be accepted by the House of Representatives. It is true that amendments concerning an extension of the guarantee period to two years or three months in the Lower House have not previously been accepted. So how does Mr Schalk base the apparent confidence that the House of Representatives will agree to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u293	I cannot have that confidence at all, because of course I have not asked the House of Representatives. Mrs Sent does indeed have a point there. However, if I look at what legislation is all being passed by the House of Representatives at this very moment where the very corona situation is specifically taken into account, and if the Secretary of State were to take that into account and tell it just as passionately why it is important when it does so here on other subjects, then it could happen that it will be taken over. And if it isn't, yes, then that's a fact. Perhaps the discretionary powers that Mrs Stienen has pointed out to us will provide us with some relief in that case. It could still be. So maybe both of those motions are of paramount importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u294	I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks. I don't see much willingness on her part to do anything with this. At least that is not the impression I received from the answer in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u295	I would like to make one further comment, because I have just heard and listened carefully and noted that the Secretary of State indicated that she was prepared not to take measures in the scheme itself, but perhaps to promote measures that are pro-active. This could help. That's how I interpreted it. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u296	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u297	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking all the citizens and organisations who have forced us to conduct this debate in all depths and creativity. They have obliged the Secretary of State to operate at the summits of her to make the input we have received from society, which we have weighed and processed here, the focus of the debate. I would also like to thank my fellow Members, as I mentioned in the first term, not only for a reflective debate but also for a creative debate, because I believe that this is the only effective way forward to a problem arising from a law that has elements that are necessary to resolve it. And, of course, I thank the Secretary of State for her glowing speech. That's how we know her. But here too, like other speakers, I must say that the Secretary of State has expressed her understanding of this Chamber, not once or twice but ten times, but still believes that the legislative proposal that she has submitted to this Chamber is the best possible legislative proposal and thus the only possible legislative proposal. This also means that the Secretary of State is not prepared to deliver butter to the fish to this Chamber. She says: I understand you, I have heard you, I understand the bottlenecks you have addressed, and this is my answer. The Secretary of State says: I have heard you, I understand you, but my answer remains that the law, which was submitted to you at the start of this process, is the law as it should be in the Official Journal. Of course, that's where the big problem lies. Mr. Chairman. If, as the Secretary of State has said, it is a question of harmonization and if deterioration is not the intention, it must say to the Secretary of State: if it is not the intention, it must not happen. No collateral damage because we want harmonisation. I do not think that any group here wants collateral damage when it comes to approving harmonization. At the same time, the whole Chamber wants a harmonisation law. I believe that solutions can be found for this and I think that down harmonisation is not the answer we need to give. Just now, Mr Schalk said that we still have a second term for the Secretary of State. The best you always save for the last time, you might think so. I am therefore delighted to be surprised, Madam Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State does not pronounce "I understand you and that is why I will act in this way," but if it remains to the sentence "I understand you," then this Chamber must say what we want the Secretary of State to do. The average French president also says once in many years "I understand you," but always does what he wants to do. It's always he-and. For that we do not have the means of the amendment, but we do have the means of the motion. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I am still from the school that, if this Chamber pronounces anything, it should be done. I'm not from the school that makes here and there of "Oh, a motion, that's like the newspapers, you pack the fish in it and then it happened again." Motions from this Chamber are scarce and therefore important. If the Secretary of State does not say what we want, I think the Chamber should tell the Secretary of State and ask for a clear, firm commitment from the Secretary of State before voting on her bill in this Chamber. That is why I would like to table the next motion, Mr President. The President shall: Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[heard the reflections on the legislative proposal for further activation of the participation of young disabled people and harmonisation of Wajong regimes;]] [[having regard to the major concerns that the proposed harmonisation includes, in addition to a number of improvements, a number of risks of deterioration for a significant number of Wajangers;]] [[calls on the State Secretary to ensure that, within the framework of the law:]] [[address adverse effects for Wajongers with medical hours limitation;]] [[maintain previous commitments on the continuing working arrangements;]] [[the guarantee period laid down in the law becomes coronaproof;]] [[and inform the Chamber thereof prior to the vote on the bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u298	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make two comments. One is about the UN Convention on Disability. I believe that this has been dealt with stepmotherly in this debate by the Secretary of State. I really do not think we should look at how we can be as minimalist as possible. We gotta get ahead of ourselves. At the time, I think that was also the wish of a large part of this Chamber and of the Chamber on the other side. The UN Convention on Disabled Persons obliges us to ensure that the position of disabled people in our society is improved over and over again. That is a very special task, but of course it is there because the disadvantage of people with disabilities is so great. This is not only the case in the Netherlands, but worldwide. I really think that we should discuss this with the Secretary of State at another time, but perhaps also with the Minister for Health and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a warning. No, "warning" is too pedantic. I would point out that there is a possibility that I or others may ask for a third deadline before we can proceed with the legislative proposal. There has been and is being tabled a series of motions which must be considered whether they could perhaps be merged or broken up in order to obtain a proper response from the Chamber to those motions. I'm not saying it's happening, but I think there's a good chance, given the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u299	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr De Vries on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u300	Mr. Chairman. Today we have debated the harmonization of the Wajong forest. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has had to conclude that the underlying bill is not positive for all people in the Wajong. We find that unacceptable. Now that the Secretary of State has indicated that it is unwilling to provide an appropriate instrument, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats requests the government to amend the bill by means of a novelle. We will table the next motion, including on behalf of many Wajangers. We hope the Secretary of State will use the last patch. If not, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will irrevocably vote against the legislative proposal. The President shall: Mr De Vries and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposal for a further activation of participation of young disabled people and harmonisation of Wajong regimes (35213) aims to improve conditions and clarity for Wajongers;]] [[Considering that the introduction of the proposed harmonisation of the Wajong regimes, in addition to a number of improvements, represents a significant financial setback for a significant group of Wajongers;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a novella in which guarantee schemes are introduced in the legislative proposal in such a way that there will be no deterioration in those who may deteriorate due to the introduction of the underlying harmonisation law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u301	Then I have the request that this motion be dealt with before the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u302	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. I call Mr Koffeman, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u303	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and, as a follow-up to Mr Kox, all the Wajangers who have been able to focus this debate. They did a good job of that. Despite the enthusiasm of the Secretary of State, she leaves us in a catch-22 after this debate. The law contains improvements that we very much want, but also deteriorations that we do not want. Rejection of the law prevents deterioration, but also blocks improvements. For that reason, my group has doubts about support for the law. A longer warranty period could help us. We also endorse Mr Kox's plea for four concrete hand-outs, which could make it much easier for us and for many other groups, without compromising the proposal. I would like to come back to the change in size, also in the wake of the interruption of Mr Oomen in the first term. According to the FNV, Wajongers can never earn more than the minimum wage because of the loss of the Breman and measure scheme. The basis for the supplement should be the wage earned by a person with equal education and without disabilities, the so-called "size-fit" income, and not, as in the current proposal, from the statutory minimum wage. The change in size is much fairer for the highly educated Wajangers. I would like to see a handout from the Secretary of State on this point, and without a clear explanation. The Secretary of State has in his own hands whether this proposal will be widely supported in this house or will be rejected or adopted. Without much pain, she can achieve a shiny victory. My group very much hopes that it will choose to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u304	Mr Koffeman puts words in my mouth that I have not spoken. I have said that for those who are now eligible for all these schemes, the guarantee scheme in fact does not change anything. So that guarantee scheme doesn't change anything. But if there is to be a new harmonised regime, it also means that it is equal for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u305	The question is whether I agree with the fact that nothing changes. That's only partially true if nothing changes. The moment someone changes jobs, everything changes. That means you're stuck in your orbit. This means that you no longer have the same circumstance, as any other citizen, in order to be able to move forward in changing jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u306	That too is wrong. If the guarantee scheme comes with a higher amount than after the job change, the guarantee scheme will continue to apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u307	It turns out that there is still too much uncertainty, also given the fact that the FNV is so keen on this. I wonder if the Secretary of State can remove that doubt. I sincerely hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u308	Mrs Oomen, the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u309	Some words were put in my mouth that I had not said. I'd just like to recommend you take a closer look at the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u310	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I call Mr Gerbrandy on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u311	Thank you, Mr President. I know my place as the last speaker in the second term. I'm not gonna make it long. In the first period, I was very clear. With Mr Van Pareren, I have some concerns about whether the people who follow us can still keep up and understand. I'll try to be as clear as possible. You wanted to be concrete, and you refused to explain this new bill to us here and to defend it. Unfortunately, you did not succeed in my view. I've been talking about civilization. Mr Van Gurp has also spoken about this. With regard to this target group, it is very important that a civilised country protects especially the vulnerable: a shield for the vulnerable. I had set out a number of criteria for agreeing to this new bill. The first, and by far the most important, criterion is that no one gets worse. If you want to get the Independent Senate Group involved in this new bill, I want you to tell me that no one is going backwards. Mr De Vries of the Otten Group has asked the same question. That's when I was confused about you saying, "I'm gonna do that." I would like you to be even clearer about that and say something about it. For me, this is crucial in this new proposal. I will briefly mention the six points: 100% minimum wage, the basis is the job wage, the Breman and size change have to come back in other form, the guarantee scheme and the gratifications. You said about the gratifications: go to the employer. There was free space. But no, that wasn't the question. That was possible before 1994, and the OSF wants it back. I wholeheartedly support a number of motions, but in particular the motion of the SP that I have signed and which would still be able to get a large amount of cold out of the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u312	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? Mr Van Pareren forgot to table his motion. Then you will receive an additional presentation, with the friendly request to submit the motions during your term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u313	Thank you, Mr President, for this unique opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u314	There's gotta be cleaning first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u315	Thank you again, Mr President, for this opportunity. Indeed, I forgot to submit my motion in that sense: I thought about it, but I didn't have the paper on hand. So this is where it worked. The motion is designed in particular to indicate with simple language and to realise, to our liking, that something is happening for those who are financially disadvantaged by the new law. To be brief, I'll read the motion. The President shall: Mr Van Pareren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed harmonisation of the Wajong regimes implies that Wajongers are declining their incomes;]] [[noting that this provides a serious financial reduction for these vulnerable groups;]] [[Whereas, in these times of corona crisis, Wajongers' concerns about their position are increasing in any case;]] [[calls on the Government to compensate the relevant Wajongers who are facing discounts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35213-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u316	The motion gets the letter "P" from Pieter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u317	The P van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u318	Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. The Secretary of State has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u319	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u320	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to reflect on the motions and questions that have been put. There were still a few of them. I also wanted to make sure that I answered the questions, because it is always my intention to answer questions. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Van Pareren. So if I miss one more, please let me know. I sometimes think that I have already dealt with a few of them on another subject, but I will at least pass them by. Mr Van Pareren had a few questions about the study. I will deal with this later on in Mrs Stienen's motion, but I would like to point out once again in his direction that it is not a question of austerity. Mr Van Pareren also drew attention to the effects that people face as a result of the corona crisis. He himself has tabled a motion on this subject. I'll handle the motions in order. I shall therefore deal with this later, and I shall also deal with it in the relevant motions by his colleagues. It is specifically about compensating the people who fall between shore and ship. I understand the question in such a way that it is mainly about the people in corona time. On the subject of evaluation, Mr Van Pareren also supported Mr Ester's words. Let's see if everything's in the right order, otherwise it would be annoying. Then I'll get to the motions, Mr. Chairman. I think I will take Mr Pareren's second motion right away for the sake of clarity. That might be so clear. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, it's avenged that a lot of questions have been asked. I hadn't put everything in the right order yet. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Ester's motion, which was co-signed by a number of your Members of Parliament. This motion calls on the government to come up with a creative solution so that the Wajongers can benefit from the new rules for the coming academic year. I have tried to express understanding of the wish of the Christian Union and of the other parties in the Chamber. I have used the terminology that the signals are on red, but traffic lights can indeed jump. I realize that, but I also want to take it seriously when there are signs from the implementation, especially in view of Parliament's attention to the pressure on implementation. Here's what I'm gonna say. I certainly want to see this as an effort to have that conversation. I would like to take with me Mrs De Bruijn's suggestion to see if that would be possible and to inform the Chamber. In the direction of Mrs Oomen, who had asked a question about people going to college, I say the following. At the moment, there are about 2,700 people in a study scheme. That was at the end of 2019. There is a large variation in educational attainment. I cannot, of course, see how many people are going to study, but it is important to make clear to those different groups what is possible in the response to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u321	Can I ask the Secretary of State a question about that? Are you prepared to send a letter to the Chamber for the vote next week after you have carried out that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u322	If it works, sure, but I'd like to give the motion judgment Chamber anyway, because I certainly want to make an effort. I have made a number of warnings here. I'll see if I can do that before the vote. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Ester, together with Mrs Stienen, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Schalk and Mrs De Bruijn, presented an evaluation motion. It is not just an evaluation, but a broad assessment of the functioning of the law by monitoring, evaluating the income effects, the guarantee scheme, but also the consequences for activation, training and social participation. I very much agree with this request. Both Chambers have asked a great deal of attention for this. In view of the situation, I think we need to talk about an explicit and comprehensive evaluation. That's why I'm giving this motion judgment Chamber. Then Mrs Stienen tabled a motion on the resilience of the guarantee scheme. Mr Van Pareren had also asked questions about this. This motion has also been signed by a number of other Members of Parliament. The motion asks me to clarify in the summer how I am going to commit myself to making the guarantee amount crisis-proof and, if necessary, to deploy a discretionary power. Let me report this to you. I indicated in the debate that the corona crisis could have disproportionate effects on working Wajangers. The concerns are also addressed in this motion. Right now I have no objective information, no reliable information about the effect of corona on working Wajangers. This has to do with the system of labour market information. It always works three months ago. The good news is that this means that we will soon be getting that information for the first three months and that it will be updated monthly. At least that makes it possible to see what we can do. I can certainly send a letter to the Chamber before the summer in which I can indicate the possibilities I see to extend the warranty period in crisis time. I would also like to include Mr Ester's motion, which also calls for monitoring. If we start monitoring each year and this crisis lasts for a long time, it will also give us the opportunity to discuss it with each other on the basis of objective information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u323	I have another question for the Secretary of State. The motion refers to the discretion of the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State state state its discretion in this matter without the support of the Second and First Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u324	Mrs Oomen has also indicated that this discretion does not yet exist. That's what I'm being asked for right now. The cabinet is now, of course, making emergency packages. So there are possibilities. I would certainly like to look at it, especially when the Chamber instructs me to do so. I have also tasted to Mr Van Pareren that he thinks it is important that we look at this guarantee period in crisis time. Then I will let you know in a letter to the Chamber in the summer, as requested in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u325	But that still depends on the assent of the Chambers, whether this can actually be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u326	This motion says, "Put on a button and see if it needs to be turned on." And Mr Schalk has tabled a motion that says: press the button and turn it on. By the way, I have also seen the signing of this motion, but I feel more strongly about Mrs Stienen's motion. That is why I also give this Chamber judgment, because I also believe that we should act on the basis of that information. But I also hope that I have shown that the willingness to act is there when it is necessary. But then, with this motion, the Chamber will also give me the opportunity to inform the Chamber of Summer of how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u327	I apologize for my ignorance, but I understand the Secretary of State has no discretion. Then where did she get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u328	No, I don't. I'm going to look into this, because of course it's true that I have to look for the form. We were actually already looking for the form in the first term, so let me also make a point in Mr Schalk's motion. Because he says "go and act like this," without me having any factual and objective information now, I should actually advise against it. But if it is adopted, I have, of course, also seen the signature, and in the same letter I am sending this summer on the basis of Mrs Stienen's motion, the letter that is asked in it, I will indicate how I deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u329	I'm about to hear exactly what you think of the motion, and then we'll talk about it. But on the issue of discretion, can the Secretary of State give me some information on how to obtain it? Who grants that discretion? And does that satisfy what Mrs Stienen might mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u330	As I understand it, we are looking for each other, and Mrs Stienen and other Members of Parliament have been hard on this to see how we can adapt. How can we stop the system if we do not want to change the system, because it has its way of working? But if you want to do that, you have to be able to turn buttons. They're not here yet. So I read the motion in such a way that it asks me to map out whether there are any forms for it, or that I simply have to fall back on a decision, in the sense of: that's how we're going to do it. And I don't know that right now. It is also a new issue for me; I say it quite honestly. But I'm very willing to explore everything that's needed to help people through this difficult time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u331	Mr Schalk, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u332	Thank you for this honest answer, because that means we both don't know it, neither the Secretary of State nor this simple Member of Parliament. That means that, if you judge Chamber on something that we don't know how to work out, it will be a complicated situation. That is perhaps why Mrs Sent asked me how I see this connection. Then I said, "Maybe we need both motions." So I would very much like to hear the opinion on my motion in the near future, because we might be supporting a motion by Mrs Stienen, of which we are absolutely unable to see the ultimate effect at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u333	No, but what I liked about Mrs Stienen's motion is that she asked me to send a letter before the summer so that I could map it in the very short term. And that is also possible, because it is a matter of weeks before that information on the labour market situation arrives. Then I can also state, both legally, whether that can be discretionary, as well as with regard to the situation, whether it is necessary. Imagine if you really can't do it, so I can let you know. But then, at least for the summer, in the short term, it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u334	For me, the word 'discretionary' means that we are confident that the Secretary of State, on the basis of her research, will find out what means she can use to temporarily extend the duration of the guarantee scheme. I have also drafted this motion in this way, because it falls within the competence of this House. It's not a motion that calls for the law to be changed. It is a question of encouraging the Secretary of State to do so as he pleases, and I have checked the dictionaries here but in consultation with this house. That's what "discretionary" means to me. And when it turns out there are possibilities, we'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u335	That's how I took her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u336	I'm confused anyway. First, the Secretary of State says, "I don't have discretion." Then she says, "I'm gonna find out legally what my discretion is." So I would very much like to ask her to clarify that, because the motion literally asks the Secretary of State to use her discretion. Does she have it or doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u337	I meant to say, what it could be. I meant that I said that. But he's not here. I took the motion as Mrs Stienen just said. The motion calls for clarity before the summer. That is why I thought: if this is an assignment that the Chamber gives me, then of course I want to get to work on it. I will therefore clarify in the summer whether this can be done and, if so, in whatever form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u338	May I make a suggestion in this one? "Discretionary competence" of course also has a specific meaning. Now, with the best of intentions, we're gonna make it a little bit of gum. It is more a suggestion, but if there is perhaps a third term next week, Mrs Stienen will be able to look very closely with hers to see if she can express what she wants to express in another way without using this word. Otherwise you will have a distracted debate on the word, which may lose the meaning of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u339	What I mean by that is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u340	Wait a minute, Mr. Van Gurp asked for something. Does the Secretary of State want to respond to that? Otherwise we will now have a debate between Members of Parliament. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u341	I honestly admit it's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u342	Does the Secretary of State wish to respond to Mr Van Gurp?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u343	Now that this is said, I also realize that the word "discretionary" also has a very different charge. That's right. I am actually trying, in the spirit of this afternoon's debate, to respond to the wishes of the Chamber to deal with the corona crisis in terms of the amount of the guarantee and the time limit. That's what I want to find out. I can't do that here and now, but since I'm being asked to do this before the summer, I've said I'm giving the motion judgment Chamber. But that is how I understood her, also in line with what Mrs Stienen has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u344	Does Mrs Stienen still want to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u345	Yeah, why be easy when it's hard? So let's do it easy. I think we could solve this by saying 'if necessary, use its powers as Secretary of State'. Then it fits within the mandate. Then I'll delete that word. The Registry will have to explain to me how to do that, but then it will all be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u346	Then we will read this motion as you have just said. I ask the Secretary of State if she wishes to respond to this. Mr. Van Gurp, I'm still working on the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State wish to respond to Mrs Stienen, who has just made an interruption? No, Mr. Van Gurp. Mr. Van Gurp, you don't have the floor. Mrs Stienen has just made an interruption. Mr. Van Gurp, no one can hear you, because your microphone is off. Secretary of State, Mrs. Stienen has committed an interruption. Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u347	I am sticking to my "judge chamber," but it is fine if it makes the motion even clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u348	Could I ask the Secretary of State what powers it thinks it has to do other than in the legislation indicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u349	In my opinion, today's debate is spirited by the need to be creative in order to see what can be done, especially in the event of a crisis. We can see that when I look at my own portfolio in the last period alone, whether it is child care, the Food Bank or the Caribbean Netherlands. One time you choose a ministerial arrangement and the other time you take a different arrangement. So you're looking at what's in the instruments. Some things are more appropriate than others. I would very much like to map it for you. If you say that there are no instruments, it must be added in a different way. Perhaps we can draw something from the existing instruments on other subjects too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u350	Follow up on your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u351	Could we ask the Secretary of State to hear this before the vote next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u352	The motion asks me to examine the form and to let you know in the summer. I liked that period, because you know what the labour market information is. So I have no form, and I'm not afraid of Monday either. But the motion is asking me to come up with a form. At least that's how I understood her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u353	I merely asked you to map the powers and report them to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u354	Yes, I will. Mrs. Sent asked about the number of people with an increased size. You can let go of different reasonings. You can say: 32% of the Wajangers have an income from wages that is more than 100% of the wml. But they are mainly active in the WSW, so sometimes things are put back to zero. We're really going into technology right now. We have 68,750 oWawongs with labor power, of whom 42,000 work. So it's also a little bit about which flight route you have. I can see throughout the discussion that this measurer is seen as an indication of income and is actually being extended to the future. But the size man and the size change were meant not to let people who built up skills in their job fall out of the Wajong. They have a relationship with the disability class, but if you don't have one anymore, you don't need a mate. The benefits of the Breman scheme are included in the new formula, which also removes the restriction that you need a provision, such as a job coach. Here too, we are going back to the essence of the scheme. But the buddy an sich doesn't say very much. Mr Van Gurp asked if there were any elements that I could bring forward in the context of implementation, such as the study scheme. We talked about that. In doing so, I have indicated that I am going to try very hard to tap into that creativity. But where the execution is involved, I want to point out here: if you need ICT, if you need releases, you need to unravel things. So I'll give you that warning. I'm gonna do my best, and I'll let your room know. Mrs De Bruijn asked when the bill on the broad offensive will come to the Upper House. It was submitted to the House of Representatives on 13 February; I also informed the House of Representatives. The Lower House has decided to deal with the Breed offensive bill after the summer. I hope it will be here in your room very soon afterwards. But, of course, the Chamber is about its own agenda. Mr. Chairman. I come to the motion with Mr Schalk's letter M, which calls on the government to take temporary measures in the emergency legislation, which temporarily extends the period during which the guarantee amount can be obtained to two years. I have just indicated in the interrupting debate that I will have to discourage this motion. That has to do with the fact that I really think it is important to collect information first, then see if a button is needed and then make a decision if we turn on the button. But I see the signature of this motion. If this motion is adopted, I will indicate in the letter, the summer letter, as I promised Mrs Stienen, how I deal with this motion. Because, of course, there are also a number of terms in which we can find a high level of aggregation at which we can find each other. But if you're going to specify exactly what we mean by that, I see all kinds of ifs and buts again. In the spirit of today's debate, I understand the motion, but then you will also understand why I should not advise her. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion with Mr Kox's letter N. Oh, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u355	I heard very well how the Secretary of State formulated it. I have also just understood from the debate, which I no longer took part in because I had already done so once, that we are not going to look at discretionary powers anymore, but at the powers of the Secretary of State. Perhaps the motion I have tabled can be very helpful if it turns out that the powers of the Secretary of State are less than we might now suspect. Perhaps you will have an extra stut if this Chamber has already made a statement on the direction in which it could at least be thought of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u356	Yes, thank you to Mr Schalk for the explanatory statement, but I still believe that I prefer to install the button first and then see if it concerns him. In view of the signature, I have a suspicion of what will happen to this motion. Then, of course, I'll handle it very well. Then there is Mr Kox's motion, with letter N. This includes a number of elements. Mr Kox said in his speech that I actually come here with a law that he can't change anything about; at least that's how I've experienced it a little. However, I had the feeling that we have put emphasis on a number of points, including here in the Chamber. I will have another discussion with Mrs Oomen about one of the elements included in Mr Kox's motion. I promise. I would also like to say that the law with which I come here is an amended law by the House of Representatives: the guarantee period has been extended, an adjustment has been made for people who would not get out of their job if they worked more than four days, something has been done for people who are permanently disabled and who otherwise would not have anything left if they had anything. Of course, everything has happened to this law. I believe that the discussion we have had today, about the study scheme and about coronaproofing, to put it in your terms, has certainly not been still water. I find it a bit difficult to judge, I say quite honestly, also because there are several elements in it. In my weighting, the negative effects for Wajangers with medical hours limitation are offset by the warranty scheme. I would like to discuss with Mrs Oomen the commitment to the continuing working arrangements. On the coronaproofness of the warranty period, we have just had an interrupting debate and a motion assessment. I'd like to get to work on that. But it is difficult to do this before the vote on the bill. If I really look at it very closely, then I must discourage the motion, but that is not really in the spirit of what we have discussed here. But if I'm really looking at it, that should be my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u357	It is slightly remarkable that the Secretary of State speaks very kindly about the four points I mention in my motion, that she does not really think it is in the spirit of the debate to say that she should discourage the motion, which should be her opinion because it might be provided for in other motions. Under this motion is only my name, but it has now been supported by various groups. The motion by Mr Van Pareren, who says the same thing in a different way, will also be tabled shortly. I would point out to the Secretary of State that it may well be that, while she gives a positive opinion on coalition motions, these motions get a majority in the Chamber. I believe that politicians, especially government officials, should always be a bit pragmatic. So if this motion is not recommended, as is Mr Van Pareren's motion, then the Secretary of State points to a ruling from this Chamber, because it then adopts two motions that she has not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u358	A personal disinflation: especially in this Chamber I do not think in the distinction coalition/opposition. From the very beginning that I set foot in The Hague, I learned that. I can tell that's not the case either. I also see it as my role in serving the entire Chamber, on both sides. Forgive me, but I'd like to say that for a moment. In the light of the discussion, I am also trying to see which motions I can give Chamber judgment. That's how I'm always in the game, and I'm happy to. But when I look at this motion, there are a number of elements on which we probably do not agree. Take the point about maintaining previous commitments on the continuing working arrangements. I would like to discuss this with Mrs Oomen later, but I cannot guarantee that we will be able to reach a total agreement on this. With regard to the coronaproofing of the guarantee period laid down in the law, we have just discussed in detail the dimensions of this issue. So I find it difficult to give this motion the judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u359	But can I understand it in such a way that the Secretary of State says: the different parts do not give me enormous concern, but because of the combination of them I cannot be for that? The Secretary of State said very nicely that she is the servant of this Parliament. So if the motion is adopted, I am counting on the Secretary of State, as is the case with Mr Schalk's motion, to say: 'I shall, of course, implement it'. This also applies to Mr Van Pareren's motion, which the Secretary of State is about to speak about. That is the consequence. An approved motion must be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u360	That's always my attitude, to be honest. Because you always have a choice, even if you don't want to. The motion also talks about overcoming the negative effects for Wajongers with medical hours limitation. In my opinion, it is. If a separate motion had been tabled on this subject, I would say on that point: Court of Justice. We are going to have an exchange of views on the previous commitments on the continuing working arrangements. We are in the process of coronaproofing the warranty period. That element is therefore also the Court of Justice's judgment. Informing the Chamber prior to the vote on the bill becomes difficult when it comes to coronaproofing the warranty period. That's how I see the motion and why I say it if I can't give the motion judgment Chamber. I come to Mr De Vries and Mr Otten's motion, which calls for a novellle. I would advise against this motion, but I would like to point out that there is no negative financial development due to the guarantee scheme. We have devoted many words to it in the debate. I am sorry that I have not been able to convince the gentlemen, but I must advise against this motion. Then I come to the Van Pareren motion with letter P. In it Mr Van Pareren states that we must ensure that people do not fall between shore and ship in the corona crisis. He is also talking about compensation, and I read this motion in such a way that when people are affected by the corona crisis, we can settle something with the guarantee period. I see the motion in the light of Mrs Stienen's motion and Mr Schalk's motion. I would like to include this motion in the drafting of Mrs Stienen's motion. If I read the motion correctly, I can certainly give her "judge chamber." I therefore refer to Mr Van Pareren's question, which is how we compensate Wajangers for the discount caused by the corona crisis. I hope to have that information based on the labour market position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u361	For the record, the Secretary of State makes a link between the corona crisis and the operative part of this motion. This motion states that Wajangers will be compensated if they are affected by the proposed legislation. I would say that this motion goes a little further than my motion. But it does say so. So if you say "judge Chamber" and if this Chamber adopts this motion, that means that the Secretary of State must ensure that its legislation cannot have negative financial consequences for the Wajongers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u362	That is why I asked Mr Van Pareren. The essence of my speech was that we protect people who are already working with the guarantee measure. The people who aren't working yet are getting better. At the bottom of the line, no one is going backwards by this law. That is the literal thrust of the motion. But I understood Mr Van Pareren in his speech in the first term and in the second period so that he made a link with people falling between shore and ship. That is why I ask: do I read the motion so well that I should include it on the warranty period in corona time? In that case, I would very much like to include that in this motion and give her "judge chamber." I'm also trying to read what people mean, but you can correct me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u363	I also said earlier that we should be creative, but here the rule is: first the letter, then the spirit. If the letter is clear, namely "calls on the government to compensate the Wajangers concerned," then there is no need to discuss the spirit of the motion. Then that's the assignment. If there is no doubt about that, that is the provision in force. Then it is not so much for the ruler to say: it says this, but I read something else in it. That may be true, but it does not have any binding consequences for the ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u364	Perhaps I could ask Mr Van Pareren if I read it correctly. Because it does say that it is a consideration of the corona crisis. That's why I was triggered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u365	I give the floor to Mrs Sent. It is up to Mr Van Pareren to decide whether he wants to speak or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u366	I am confused, because Mr De Vries' motion, which states that there is a considerable financial setback for a group of Wajangers, is not recommended by the Secretary of State, because she does not believe that this is the case. But Mr Van Pareren's motion, which indicates that many Wajongers are falling in income and asking the government to compensate the Wajongers in question, receives "judgement chamber" from the Secretary of State. I don't understand how one can be dissuaded and get the other "judgment chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u367	Mr De Vries' motion calls for a novelle. That motion finds that there is a significant financial setback. So I have indicated to Mr De Vries that there is no such thing, because people are making progress or there is a guarantee scheme if there is a risk of deterioration. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In Mr Van Pareren's motion, to whom I give the same answer, namely 'there is no financial deterioration on the basis of this law', I read that he also mentions concerns about Wajangers in the coronacrsis. That is why I would like to include his motion in Mrs Stienen's motion and therefore give her 'judge chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u368	I think that Mr Van Pareren should clarify this, because it really says 'the proposed harmonisation of the Wajong regimes means that Wajongers are falling in income'. That is also true, because there is a transitional arrangement of 12 months in the guarantee period. It then asks the government to compensate the Wajongers concerned. The motion can therefore count on my warm support. I do not understand how the Secretary of State can give this judgment Chamber, while the other one is not advised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u369	Again, one motion calls for a novelle. I wouldn't be a supporter of that, so that's why I dissuade her. For the sake of clarity, the guarantee scheme does not lead to a decline in income. I always think it is important to have an exchange of views. That arrangement is valid for a year. But also in the current situation, people can lose their jobs and come down to a lower level. Some things happen not because of the law, but because of events in life. Having said that, there is no income decline by this law and I read the motion in the light of the corona crisis. But I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u370	I read the motion again. I read out what it says. What it says is... I can read her again. Maybe I should read her again, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u371	We know the motion. You've already read to her once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u372	I've read to her once. I'm sticking to what it says. I put it briefly, even at the presentation to the cathedral that was in two-and-a-half hours, or something like that, and I made it very clear in simple words what I thought was important. That is that the young people who are declining are compensated. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for looking positively at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u373	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more topic that Mrs Oomen has put on the agenda, namely the people who are going to be affected by the continuing working arrangements. It also made a very broad argument about this in the second period. In view of what Mrs Oomen has said, I would certainly be prepared to find out about this group. I will also try to do that before the votes. I would like to see what it means if we provided the group that she indicates, those three years, with an arrangement. What would that mean financially? What does it mean, legally? Is it okay? How's that going? That's what I want to visualize. Except I'd like to know something about her. She was quite specific in the question she asked. Are we talking about the group of 6,000 people who are now at work? Because I would think: in the end, it is the people who are at work on 31 December 2020, because they are or are not covered by the regulation. I would like to discuss this with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u374	I made that clear in first and second terms too. In 2020, the people working in 2020, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15 years old, which was the entry into force of the scheme, have already contributed to the achievement of this continued work regime. Since we are now adopting the law, which will enter into force on 1 January 2021, they are just not eligible for those seven years. That's for another two years. I start counting from 2015. I want compensation for that. Then it'll stop too. I'll take the whole law. I say we go with this new system, but let those who were already in the process of building it complete it. It's not about a big group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u375	I would like, if Mrs Oomen also thinks that is a good idea, to clarify what this means. It seems important to me to know that, both legally and perhaps financially, I don't know. So we know what we're talking about. I'm sensitive to her call. She put it down firmly, and I get that, too. I would like to clarify before the votes whether or not I can do anything with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u376	Not just what it means, because I know what it means. I also have an estimate of how much it costs, because I also had some prior consultation. What I would like to hear is: how does the Secretary of State intend to adapt this arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u377	If I can send a letter before the vote, I will gladly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u378	The vote will now be Tuesday next week. We'll talk about that later, but I suspect so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u379	Mr President, as I know, I have answered the questions and commented on the motions. If there are any additional questions, I'd be happy to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u380	I had an open question from the first term. This concerns the letter from UWV dated 25 January 2019, which states that it is a condition for the feasibility of 1 January 2021 that UWV will be commissioned to start before 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u381	Yeah, that's right. I did talk about that at dinner break. There were different paths of time. One report has made up for the other in terms of timeline. My proposal would be to include this in the letter which I am now sending before the votes, because magic with dates from behind the speaker's seat is difficult, but there was a logical explanation for it. I haven't got him ready for a while, if you'll allow me, but I'll take that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u382	This brings you to the end of your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u383	Thanks to you and also to all the people who wanted to have the debate here today. And, of course, the people who have followed the debate, also for my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u384	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-eerstekamer-7.u385	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. I also propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled, and I understand that Mr De Vries would like to see the motion put to the vote under letter O and Mr Van Pareren under letter P before the vote on the legislative proposal. The same applies to Mr Kox's motion and to Mrs Oomen's motion. Is that right? Then why raise your hand, Mrs. Oomen? For Mr. Kox, anyway. So Mr Kox's motions under letter N, Mr De Vries under letter O and Mr Van Pareren under letter P are put to the vote before the vote on the bill. We have now come to the end of the meeting. I would like to thank all the members and staff who made this meeting possible and wish you well at home. I'm closing the meeting.
