ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the spokesmen. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. For the first term, I propose to ask four questions. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The number of infections is decreasing and fortunately certain public sites are allowed to open again. But unfortunately, we're still a long way from here. Yesterday we got a look at the normally so festive December month, which we probably should celebrate this year a bit more sober. Looking at the dashboard, we can see that all signal values are still far exceeded. What does that tell us, I ask the Minister of Health? The debate on the reliability of the number of infections is growing. How complete are the figures, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. If we go back further towards limit values, on what basis will the consideration be made on 8 December for further scaling-down of measures? Do we harness the power of business, for example by using the experience of the field labs? And when will the 25 hospitality experiments start that can help to re-open the catering industry responsibly at any time? Mr. Chairman. In a motion, the VVD called for the various test tracks to be brought together to see if the initiatives from the business community could continue to grow. What is the progress on the implementation of this motion? With the pieces we received last night, there was an opinion from October 27 that called for something similar. And there's also a schematic with a test route map. But that card doesn't say anything about the direction on the test. Who's in control of this schedule now? A vaccine gives us perspective that we all crave. And on the road there, non-medical testing can play an important role, namely in creating more space for all of us. For doing fun, but also so normal things, things that just belong to our lives. I deliberately say non-medical testing because these tests have a different purpose than the tests of the GGD. The Prime Minister said it at the press conference yesterday: testing, for example, at the entrance to a festival. That you're gonna come in and take a non-medical test. If you get a good rash, you can go in and you don't. Mr. Chairman. The VVD understands that it is too early for this, but we do have to work on opportunities that offer more space for if it is possible. Non-medical testing comes in addition to further rolling out and scaling up the medical tests. They both have different goals. So the question is: is the cabinet working on a plan for non-medical testing? A plan with an objective and an approach to implementation, and does the government involve VNO and business? I am not asking for a deadline or a date on which this is going to happen, but I am asking for this to be taken seriously. I am asking for this broader testing strategy because it must be complementary to the vaccination strategy. How are these strategies, tests and vaccinations connected? Mr. Chairman. Two companies brought good news about a vaccine this week and that is a great achievement. This gives the public courage, but it also instructs the Minister of Health to have everything in order in case the vaccine is there. What is the state of the vaccination strategy and what is the Minister's focus on? How are people who already have detectable antibodies treated, also within the framework of the priority strategy? Can we include this data privacy-technically in the vaccination strategy? At least as important is the logistics implementation. I understand from the G.D.D. that they haven't been commissioned yet. Nor does that apply to the general practitioners. RIVM said it could take more than a year. We understand that needles have been bought in now, but what about the rest of the supplies and the people who have to do it? How is it ensured that we will be ready for it in terms of implementation in the human, material and logistical sense and when will we hear it? I hear that we seem to be lagging behind in Europe in thinking about this. That can't be true, can it? Does the Minister agree with me that the number of vaccines around the vaccination should soon be the only pressing factor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u3	The VVD recently voted against the motion against compulsory vaccination. I would like to know if the VVD is now for mandatory vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u4	The motion was about immediate and indirect mandatory vaccination. We voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u5	That's right. Many people are terrified of mandatory vaccination, but indirect vaccination is almost the same. There is now a risk that there will be an indirect vaccination obligation. It remains strange that the VVD voted against. Then you get situations where a child isn't allowed to go to child care. You can't enter a government building. You can't go to a concert or a library if you haven't been vaccinated. Isn't this just a de facto vaccination obligation and doesn't it lead to social exclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u6	In my opinion, it is a matter for me to come to that later in my speech that we should work together to ensure that as many people as possible, preferably everyone, just do what is necessary, namely: have you vaccinated, if all the tests and tests that EEA is going to do now, show that it is a safe, reliable and well-functioning vaccine. Such vaccination not only helps yourself, but also your environment. I believe that everyone has a responsibility for that safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u7	Yes, I understand that, but I wonder how my old liberal party can reconcile that with the integrity of the body. What struck me was a facebook post by Klaas Dijkhoff. In that he says: no vaccination, no child benefit. No shots, no spikes. No vaccination, no access to childcare. If it is not all going to work, then we Liberals should still proceed with a vaccination obligation. Doesn't that mean de facto that the VVD has been turned and yet, despite what you're all saying here, is for a direct or indirect vaccination obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u8	The post mentioned by Mr Van Haga played at a time with a number of measles outbreaks. My group chairman was right to raise the question as to whether a vaccination obligation might eventually be necessary, and he made it quite clear: please let us make sure that it does not have to come to that. As a liberal too, you have a responsibility to continue thinking about what is happening in our society. Are there any steps you might need to take in the basics that you actually say: no, we don't want that? Sometimes, precisely because of that freedom you have yourself, you need a step to protect the freedom of another. Together, you're gonna have to do that. And so you have to think about it. That doesn't mean we have to. It doesn't mean we're taking that step. But you should at least think about it. I am willing to do that, but I would much rather we make sure that people voluntarily make a sensible choice. I think the sensible choice is to have you vaccinated, if the vaccine is there, if there are multiple vaccines, if they are safe, if they work and if that's tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u9	Finally, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u10	Finally. Good. Then let's just talk about the indirect vaccination obligation. Is the VVD still in favour of granting an indirect vaccination obligation? That is a measure that you do not like, but you do want to think about it and perhaps you want to do it. Or are you going to keep fighting it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u11	What I just said, I'm open to thinking about what it takes. I'd rather have the number we need. There is talk of 60%, 70%, 75% of the population who must have been minimally inoculated to have it working. I would prefer everyone to do so voluntarily, but I am also prepared to think about making it an indirect obligation and, therefore, subject to parole. If you don't get vaccinated, there's a consequence, yes. You have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u12	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was headed for rounding. I still get a lot of questions from people about what can and can't do now. I get that. So I insist, as in previous debates, that communication should be clearer and clearer. This communication must certainly be about vaccination; see the debate just now with Mr Van Haga. Unfortunately, I don't see a government taking us on a strategically planned campaign to do what's needed: to vaccinate yourself for the protection of yourself and your neighbors. I don't think waiting or not communicating is an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u15	Madam President. In the greatest national crisis period in decades, the cabinet is arguing about the streets. The national interest in the coalition is replaced by the party interest. Directors call each other names. And that everything gets leaked to the press. What should people in the country think about that? People who have corona or become unemployed, people who no longer receive hospital care while they have cancer, people who expect the cabinet to solve problems instead of being self-employed. And then they see that within the coalition, Minister de Jonge is said to have "absolute and fact-free delusions." Moron and fact-free delusions. So his colleagues are actually saying: we have a madman at the helm on VWS. You're gonna have to be told. We also read that there are colleagues who want to destroy a Deputy Prime Minister. And we read that Prime Minister Rutte has weekly outbursts of anger and blames other ministers for disloyalty. What a mess, Madam Chairman. My message to the cabinet is: stop arguing, or file your resignation. The last thing the Netherlands needs right now is for you to act like a bunch of arguing teenagers who make each other look like rotten fish in crisis time. Then the contents. Although the pressure on hospitals is still high and regular care is still heavily scaled down, the number of infections has fortunately fallen significantly, although the number of infections has risen again in recent days. However, what measures are leading to the reduction from 10,000 to 4,000 to 5,000 infections per day? How the hell is that possible? I would ask you to indicate this by measure. After such a long period of imposed restrictions of freedom, the cabinet should offer perspective to the Dutch people and companies. The Netherlands not only wants to know how they can celebrate sinterklaas and Christmas, but also what the year 2021 will look like. They don't want patronizing lyrics, they want a clear story. Let everyone, all those hardworking Dutch people, all those people in care, all those people waiting for a delayed medical treatment, all those entrepreneurs whose business is about to go bankrupt, see what they can expect in 2021. Show that the future of these people is being considered. When will they receive their deferred care or surgery? When are the vaccines available to them? And what happens if they choose not to want a vaccine? What does that mean for them? When will their catering company be able to open up again? People have so many questions, but yesterday at the press conference, the Prime Minister did not go much further than the announcement that sinterklaas should do his shopping alone this year. It was like we were watching the Juvenile Journal. No less than a million people have been referred to the hospital in the past year. 30,000 patients less per week are referred to the hospital by the general practitioner. In most regions, the operating rooms are sometimes even above half of the area. I ask the cabinet, how many lives did this cost? Let it be known to you for a moment what enormous health damage this causes. As with Mrs Cristel van der Leest. We saw her the day before yesterday at one day. Her kidneys only work for 7% and she was thrilled to have a donor kidney. But the transplant didn't go through a few days before the surgery because of corona, and now she's living in incredible, difficult-to-bear uncertainty. Can the Minister do something for her? And can the Minister do anything for all those other people with similar experiences? Where's the perspective for them? Give them perspective. Despite the fact that so many people in the Netherlands have had less care in the past year, they now have to pay much more premium. Does the cabinet agree with me that getting less care and having to pay more premium is totally unacceptable? You can't be serious. Are you prepared to compensate for this by reducing the risk or, even better, abolishing it? Or by compensating it in another way? Mr. Chairman. There are no less than 80,000 vacancies in the care sector. Of the new caregivers 43%, almost half, leave the care within two years. One important reason for this is that there we have him again the salary. So my question is again to carry out my adopted motion and to increase the healthcare salaries considerably and structurally. It remains indigestible for the cabinet, you, Mr Rutte, to give 100 billion Dutch euros to Brussels and southern Europe, but leave our care workers in the cold. This has to change. The PVV wants to do it differently. Care must become another top national priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you look at the numbers of infections, we're on the right track. But it's also very fragile. The peak of the second wave has been, but the decline is shocking. Mr Wilders mentioned this as well. Today, for example, the number of infections seems to increase again. If you look at the technical briefing this morning, we can see that the tail of the second wave is going to be a very long tail. The pressure on the hospitals is far from gone. So it remains necessary to suppress the virus and relieve the care. At the same time, in private conversations, but also in the media, we all have the question: what Christmas can we celebrate this year? This question is being asked by a lot of people, and with it the call for perspective and predictability. Now I understand that reading a road map from left to right works differently than the other way around. After all, you want to slow down an increase, but not a decrease. We also know that if the infections drop, the effects in the hospitals will only be a few weeks later. At the same time, when it comes to predictability and that perspective, it is important that we know how the way back takes shape. The letter says something about it, namely that the scale should have a separate place in the Roadmap. But when exactly can we expect it? When you talk about perspective, you also talk very quickly about sectors like the catering industry, where perspective is called for. Colleague Veldman of the VVD just asked about the field labs and the experiments in the catering industry. When can we hear more about this? Different letters mention different dates, for example when it comes to what can still be done in restaurants. It is written about this: after 8 December, even when it comes to questions from the adopted motion on quarantine support, which is, by the way, in many more SMEs. Corona crisis jobs can also greatly help in sketching perspective. Now the letter from last night or last night about quarantine is written: early December. When it comes to the corona crisis jobs on which motions have also been adopted, at the beginning of this week we have had a letter of formal notice, which says: we are doing well. And: as soon as possible we announce more about this. Does that mean that we will hear more about these crisis jobs at the beginning of December or 8 December? The crisis is now and not at the beginning of next year. As far as these corona crisis jobs are concerned, I would therefore like to see concrete action as soon as possible rather than just a letter of formal notice. Another concern I have when it comes to undermining entrepreneurs. That risk is now in the hospitality industry, but also in sports clubs. We've had that discussion before; look at the xtc labs in the outskirts. You can see those criminals know exactly when someone's having a hard time. Then they get in through blackmail, seduction, and sometimes by buying up real estate and using it for drug storage. These risks can now be seen in the catering industry or at sports associations. Does the Cabinet have sufficient vision of these new opportunities for criminal undermining? What's gonna happen to that? What can the cabinet do to get a better picture of this and to fight it, for example by helping entrepreneurs and associations to arm themselves against it? I have a very specific question about youth sports. Parents should not be present on the field to watch, but in practice you can see that as a result many parents form groups in parking spaces, where often there are less square meters than around all those fields. So I would like to have a reflection on that. If you want to prevent people from standing close together, isn't standing around a football field more sensible than all of you in a parking lot? Mr President, a final point, or rather a final point. I'm gonna talk fast. The NOS had a report on a healthcare hotel last weekend. That's about first-line beds. That's what the letter wrote about. They have been around for a long time and are now also being used for corona. I think that's very good, because that can relieve the burden of regular care. People who are too good for the hospital, but too bad to be at home and for whom home care is not even enough, can be helped in those first-line beds in those corona hotels. However, the note says again: staff is also the bottleneck here. Then I think: to use care reserves. We have tabled the Wilders/Heerma motion on this. But I also think that there are also those crisis jobs to be used for that. I think that is the Asscher/Palland motion. So what does the Cabinet see for opportunities to use these primary care hotel beds more? This is, after all, very interesting not only for the corona crisis now, but also for the care landscape of the future. Mr President, I would like to make my final point. I think that this letter deals very well with that perspective of testing and also with the schedule that we are now getting. But that still focuses primarily on scaling up PCR tests and using antigen tests, for example with industry. There is also more about the LAMP test, but just now about the breath tests, which I have already asked for in several debates, there are only two sentences. They say: you will hear more from us in December, because then it is validated. But when you talk about synergy with business, I would like to hear more about this. These are often start-ups. Companies can therefore use their knowledge in the field of further development. Are consultations with VNO-NCW taking place to make full use of the opportunities offered by breath tests for society?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr Heerma spoke about the question of what perspective we have. We have seen terrible figures over the past week about people's health in the Netherlands. Every week, now, 30,000 people can go to the specialist less, while the GP thinks it should be. Surgery rooms are scaled 20% to 50%, in almost all regions. In a few large regions such as the Central Netherlands, the South Netherlands and South Holland, even more than 50% of the operating rooms have been scaled down. One million people can't go from the GP to the hospital. People with the most horrible diseases. I asked the cabinet how many lives that cost. That has cost a lot of lives if it hasn't cost a lot of other people enormous pain and sorrow. You know, you can talk about crime and influence. It's all good. I can also support part of this, but this is the question and these are the figures: what perspective does the cabinet now have to ensure that this is resolved as quickly as possible? You'll just be that lady at One-Today who would get a new kidney and who wouldn't get it. For example, there are thousands of examples. One million people. Why don't you tell me about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Pieter Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u21	Why don't you tell me about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u22	I think it is right for Mr Wilders to ask this question, with the exception of the last sentence, because I did say something about it. In fact, Mr Wilders and I actually had the same debate at the last debate two weeks ago. That's when he started talking about those care reserves, which is also in our election programme. And then I said right: just when it comes to these problems, you will have to do more here. That is why, in my term of office, I have just referred to these healthcare hotels, and in doing so, both the healthcare reserves and the corona crisis jobs, on which we have had a letter of formal notice this week, and I have also made that distinction two years ago to Mr Wilders, to see what you can do about the scaling-down of care and the fight against the crisis, but also the point of learning about the care landscape for the future, which Mr Wilders spoke about two years ago. So I very much agree with Mr Wilders that scaling down regular care is also a very big problem in this corona crisis and that we need to do things about it, but we also need to do things that help in the long term. That is what my question about healthcare hotels, just now in my input, was aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u23	Over the longer term, we have found each other with a nice motion that we have tabled together on the healthcare reserves. For the rest, I haven't heard from you about what we're doing about the problems now, except for the care hotels. I am not saying that the proposal on healthcare hotels is a ridiculous proposal, because it is not. However, it is really an illusion to think that this will solve the problems for a million people who have now had insufficient care, for those 30,000 people who now have to go to the specialist every week. You're gonna hear from the GP that you're going to see the oncologist, the rheumatologist, or I know which ologist is supposed to, and I can't. Today, November 2020. You don't solve that with care hotels. The cabinet didn't speak of it at the press conference yesterday. Not a word! It is a disgrace, it is embarrassing and I do not hear you say a word about it anymore. So I'm asking you not to rule, but you're wearing a government party. What do you think this cabinet should offer these people now, not the next crisis, except the care hotels for perspective. This should be a debate from the perspective that they get their care again? It's about sick people who have to get their care back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u24	This is not the first debate we have on this issue. I am glad that Mr Wilders is raising this issue, because at the same time I have forgotten another example. So I mentioned the corona crisis lanes, I mentioned the care reserves. The letter refers to the fact that, often by pressure from the Chamber, by all parties, ours and that of Mr Wilders, attention is also being paid to initiatives in the context of extra hands on the bed. This concerns thousands of people who are now reporting to the care department to be able to work there. When it comes to the corona crisis jobs, the letter we received this week, fortunately, indicates that there is synergy with companies that are now in the NOW and have staff at home. They can also be used, as far as I'm concerned, in the care hotels as well as in other ways to provide more capacity, thus reducing the pressure on regular care and ensuring that regular care can continue as much as possible. That is not something that I would just like to focus on right now, which we have done in various debates. Mr Wilders now paints the picture that he draws attention to and I do not; I sincerely disagree with that. But he's right to make the point, because it's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u25	I'm not even interested in catching each other flies about who did and who didn't. There's a cabinet there, they rule. The consequence is that 1 million people this year, because the care was not in order, because care has been cut, because the care staff does not get the salary they asked for and earned, because the staff has been cut earlier, because hospitals have been closed, because the care has become a very big mess in the Netherlands... And then you get a crisis and then it almost collapses. We can see that now. So we have no use for words, we have something to do. We have nothing to do with an effort commitment, we have something to do with a result commitment. That lady who needs a new kidney, she has nothing to do with a chat about care hotels, who just wants to hear from you, as leader of a coalition party, that the cabinet is going to solve this as the weed again and how it is going to do that. Would you at least not agree with me that it is a shame that there is not a single word to be devoted to this whole press conference? The two gentlemen, Rutte and De Jonge, just shouldn't have been at that press conference. The Minister for Medical Care, have her run a press conference on her own one time, and tell her how we're gonna solve the problems with the scaled-down care. That is the problem of people at home now, not whether or not they should wear a mask. How do they get their care if they're sick and have cancer or need a kidney? Why don't you talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u26	For the third time, I am going to tell Mr Wilders that his analysis is incorrect and that I am talking about it. I am glad that Mr Wilders says that it is not the intention to point out that one party is asking for attention and not the other, because we have debates on this over and over again. I am standing here to say that I think that something must be done quickly with the corona crisis jobs, because a note of procedure stating that there will be a return in due course is not enough, because the crisis is now. Those were my literal words. So I, too, consistently call for attention to be paid to this. Mr Wilders says that we have nothing to say but want to see action, but that is a reflection on the work we are doing here. Because debates are used with words to encourage a cabinet to act. That's what we're here for, and that's what we're filing motions for. I also want answers to the questions I asked the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u27	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr President, my last, fourth question. Maybe I can rephrase it. I take full advantage of Mr Heerma's good intentions. Again, this is not a debate to catch each other flying. But what is the message from the CDA to the people who are now sick at home, who may be following this debate and who have been told by the GP over the past few years that they had to go to a specialist, which couldn't, that they needed surgery, which couldn't, that they needed a new kidney, which couldn't, and who are now in pain? Or to people who may have a family member who is now dead? Forget the technique. Just from man to man: what do you say to those people who want to hear more from the leader of a government party than this? They just want to hear when they get their help again and when they can go back to the doctor: "If the doctor says I have to go to a specialist, when can I, because I have pain, I need a new kidney?" What do you say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u29	If Mr Wilders asks the question like that, the answer has four layers. I'll walk them by soon. The first is as follows. Some of the problems we have talked to each other about earlier, which we now have in our care, have to do with decisions that have been taken decades ago. Mr Wilders only blamed the VVD for this in a previous debate, but I indicated that these were cabinets in which the CDA was also present. In a technical briefing, Mr Kuipers said that Germany now has the concern we had in the 1970s. So it's a wake-up call for how we decorated the care. That's gonna have to be different. We have also tabled motions on this subject, including Mr Marijnissen, for precisely this. That's the first layer. Then the second layer. Things are getting better in this second wave. The patient spread is better. So you can see that in places there is less scaled than in the previous period. So that's an improvement. Three. If we all stick to the measures, we'll avoid contamination. By taking all our responsibilities, we can prevent regular care from being scaled down. Four. In addition, we will have to ask the Cabinet to do those things that help even more. In addition, I mentioned the care hotels and the care reserves. The same goes for the corona crisis orbits. We can ask this here in this debate of the Cabinet, so on top of the three things I mentioned, we can do even more to translate the words we use here into the actions of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u30	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Then I give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you. Luckily, things have been going well for a while. At least it seems that we are able to reduce the number of infections. The short-term increase in the measures may be a little less. A small step, because the pressure on care remains considerable. This temporary increase has deviated from the Roadmap. It was confusing and didn't work for the support. The use of the Roadmap provides perspective. Mr. Chairman. The word "perspective" comes back in almost every debate, for good reason. Companies, restaurants, the cultural sector, sports associations continue to have a hard time. People crave perspective because of this uncertainty. Partly because of the virus, but I'm also missing something in the cabinet. Yesterday, the Prime Minister tried to drop the word "perspective" as often as possible, but it remains vague. How is the cabinet going to ensure that the roadmap is useful in two directions, namely scaling up and scaling down, as requested by the Jetten motion? I now miss the "if this, then that" scenario. Mr. Chairman. We also need to look further. What do we do after the new year? Surely it must be possible to prevent another wave? This means more focused testing and mass testing. Denmark is already testing on a large scale and I hear Belgium saying that it wants to test the entire population every week. This is not future music but realistic. Unfortunately, I see the opposite in the Netherlands at the moment. The number of decreased tests is falling, while the capacity is increasing. How is this possible, I ask. We need to test more, not less, because the R-value can go further down if we test more and isolate better. Mr. Chairman. The mass testing of large groups combined with a few codes of conduct is a real option to gain more freedoms. Events are already experimenting. Can we not identify a region to experiment and then expand it on a larger scale? If so, when could this start? It would be nice to bring lifestyle support with you right away. Mr. Chairman. Vaccination will play an important role in the much-needed perspective. Even if few people have been vaccinated, this can give extra freedoms together with mass testing. 'Cause it's gonna be a while before all people are vaccinated. Moreover, this requires a great deal of preparation. Have we already started to buy those freezers, for example? If so, do we have sufficient capacity? With regard to the target groups and the order of vaccinations, I also have some questions. Is there any possibility that we will deliberately deviate from the recommended prioritisation if it turns out that the vaccine works better in young people or if the logistics this from our question? Every vaccine is different. I ask for maximum transparency and honesty on this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few questions. How does the Minister look at the number of infections in Curaçao? Curaçao is yellow, but Aruba is orange with fewer infections. That's inconsistent. When are we going to test every incoming traveler who can enter via air, land and sea? People tell me that they were suddenly logged out of the CoronaMelder. How is this possible, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Things may be going well now, things are getting better. But let us really avoid going back to the right of the road map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. Compliments for the clear press conference yesterday. But there are also a lot of questions. Yesterday I was particularly pleased that there was clarity, that a perspective is finally being outlined as to where we are going with the test society. I'll get to that in a minute. The first thing that's bothering a lot of people is what we're gonna do in the next few days. What do the holidays look like? I think that the way in which there is sometimes hinted at "we could or could not be a little more" creates a lot of uncertainty. We need to be clear. In crisis situations like this, it is important to outline hope that you can get back together, but if you can't, it's also good to tell that annoying message in time. That would be my message to the cabinet. Beware of making people very happy by perhaps relaxing the holidays if we stay in trouble with each other for a longer time, with all the social and economic consequences. Mr. Chairman. It's a lot about perspective today. I really think this is the central point. 'Cause, yeah, the numbers are getting better. If you see that in the middle of January we might be back on level 1, I'm really happy about that. But then what? So what are we gonna do? When I see that the cabinet does not really want the test capacity to run at full speed until March, I am really worried. There are now plans to have 10 million tests per month in March, but that should actually be done by January. Because what is the message that we will have about the Netherlands? "You've done a great job. The holidays have spent you differently than you would like." And to all those catering entrepreneurs, who have lost their turnover: "You have done well. Handsome! You've kept people working. You've fixed the place up." And, "We're back on a low level." But then what? That's exactly the perspective that's missing. That is why I urge the cabinet to bring forward its ambitions in terms of testing. It's not enough to say that we have those 10 million tests a month in March. Maybe in March we should be on double. We really should no longer see testing as a medical instrument, as the colleagues of the VVD and the CDA have also argued. It's the only way to get our society back to work. I think it is fantastic how we work with employers, but also think about education. I speak to so many young people, in higher education or in vocational education, who are really starting to have psychological problems, because seeing the perspective of each other, being able to study and also going to a lecture hall is not there. Such tests should also be made available for those groups. I don't see any of that right now. That's why we really need to work harder. I know there's a lot of work going on in the field of testing, but this isn't enough. We ask so much from the Netherlands. If the test capacity is not in order in January, it is almost impossible to scale, because we know that it will just go up again. The only instrument we have is another lockdown. That is why a population test should be carried out as soon as possible, as we see it happening in other countries. We can't wait any longer. All this is also linked to the vaccination strategy. We do not yet know exactly which vaccines we get at what time and which target group is the most suitable. But what we do know is that next year, with a little luck, we can inoculate half of our population and maybe we should do it twice. So we know how many vaccinations we have to give and how many people we need for that. The same goes for testing. We also know that capacity needs to be increased tenfold. This means that you can already bet on educating people to start vaccination and getting that test capacity in order as soon as possible. I want the Minister to tell me what's going on in there. What are the targets? How many people are trained every week to be ready to handle these large test streams and also to be able to vaccinate later? I really want to be perfectly clear. It is in no way acceptable to me if the testing capacity and vaccination strategy are not in order and if we are told in the future that there are not enough people. We'll be there in time. This means that we must now make the most of it. That is why I would like to conclude with a genuinely compelling request to the Minister: make sure that by mid-January, when we are back at the lowest level, that test capacity is in order and that we are at those 10 million tests per month. To ask Mr Wilders what is the answer to all those people who are not concerned now? To answer this question: the terrible answer at this time is that the hospitals are so full that we cannot manage to give those people the care they need in the short term. I don't want that to happen for a second time. We can stop that from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr. Chairman. Only together can we control Corona. The question is how "together" the cabinet still is. We know that there is a piece in which part of the cabinet states that the test capacity is not so well organised and is not sufficient to make it more flexible. But we're not getting that part. We asked about this in the debate two weeks ago and we asked the Prime Minister about it separately, but we do not get it. That's impossible, isn't it? Because that is extremely relevant information for us to be able to think with and to decide on the further relaxation or tightening of measures. If, in future, we can read in the newspaper how the Council of Ministers is operating and which minister is arguing with which other minister, that will certainly not help in the clarity of the outside world. The split in the coalition is also reflected in the lack of clarity in the proposed measures. There was a so-called roadmap. It is still there, but virtually no one understands the road map. The purpose of that whole thing was precisely to bring more predictability, more clarity and..... that is the word of the day.. perspective. That was precisely the purpose of the road map. So my question to the Prime Minister is: does he see that and does he agree that more clarity is needed? Then the testing and the vaccines. We are very curious about the plans. Many colleagues have already said something about this. We understand that the cabinet is coming up with a strategy for vaccination. But our question is also pressing: is homework in order? Are we not going to be faced with the fact that there are not enough of those refrigerators where the vaccines are to be kept, for example? Can we at least get that guarantee? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the concern for the care, because there are. I would ask the cabinet in particular to deal with the situation in the nursing homes, which is poignant. If we see that half the people who die from corona live in a nursing home, that's really sad. My question is therefore: can we not do more to help these people? Specifically, the use of quick tests for the people who work there, for the people who visit them, perhaps also for the family members of staff and the staff themselves, of course. What's in there? If there's more in it, it's actually my question. Last night's letter from the cabinet says that a plan is being worked on to scale care in the nursing homes. My question to the cabinet is: how are we supposed to see that? We are very worried about that, because there are people living in a nursing home unlike in a hospital. So how can we scale down care there? Is it not much better to say that this is simply totally undesirable and that we must do everything we can to prevent it? I just can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mrs Marijnissen wonders what else we could do to help the people in nursing homes. 50PLUS is always very concerned about ventilation in nursing homes and the possibility of what aerosols do and do not do. Does the SP agree with us that we should take a good look at that too? Of course, the schools are the responsibility of this cabinet, but the nursing homes are actually being left out too much. What is Mrs Marijnissen's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u37	I would like to say two things about this. I think the nursing homes stay out of sight too often anyway. That is why at least we bring it up very often. We also really think that the first wave was badly learned. Then, in that summer period, we stood here to say: now it's quiet; there's a lot to be done, but at least one thing has to be done and that's learning from what went wrong in the nursing homes. That's one. And two, specifically in terms of ventilation: I take that for granted. But I do think that we should follow science in that. We are studying all the studies that appear on this subject carefully, of course. Of course, attention must be paid to this, because it must be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u38	We believe, on the contrary, that there is far too little research and that the urgency of this problem is not seen. I would also like to hear a reply from Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u39	We can see that urgency. I would certainly like to endorse that. As far as I'm concerned, it goes way beyond ventilation when it comes to the situation in the nursing homes. I'll make a plea myself for more rapid testing. Earlier, of course, we had a lot of discussions here about the lack of protective equipment, with nursing homes also standing at the back of the queue. So we really need to learn from that. We can't let that go wrong again. Ventilation, yes, of course. All conceivable research that could possibly even contribute a little to the reduction of that virus must of course be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u40	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. The concern for our caregivers. The concern that is now being postponed has already been addressed in the debate. That means a lot for people who need care, who suffer from it, but that also means a lot for our caregivers. They are now working very hard in a second peak, but immediately, even if the number of infections is going to fall, the pressure on care will continue, because all this delayed care will have to be recovered. We are talking to more and more carers who are really worried about whether they and their colleagues will continue to do so. So my question is also what the cabinet can do for them. A specific point that I would like to raise again today is the proposal that has been adopted here as well as in the First Chamber for higher salaries and a better appreciation of our care staff. Two relevant things happened last week. One. Here in the Chamber the so-called BIK has been rushed through. Well, that's actually another tax discount for companies. Even the government's own officials say: "Don't do that." The cabinet will do it and it will cost 2 billion euros. The other important fact of last week is the opinion of the Health & Society Council. That council is calling the bell because it signals that people work in care. Often it is women who are simply not economically independent and who simply cannot get away from their work in care. That council says there can't be a day left to intervene. And that intervention means a better and fair appreciation for our caregivers. We support that. Our concern deserves more appreciation, deserves more support. And that can't wait another day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Chairman. I visited Beth Shalom in Amsterdam on Monday, a Jewish care center where the outbreak took place very early in the spring. Twenty-two people died at the time. I found it interesting to hear how they look back on that now and how they try to avoid repetition. It was very impressive. Employees told us what that was like: one minute you're giving someone a cup of coffee, the next hour they're gone. In one day, seven people died at the same time. Colleagues had become ill. The chef had gotten sick. It showed me once again how essential it is that many fewer people get sick and that we reduce the number of infections much faster. Fortunately, the number of infections is now lower than a few weeks ago, but quite frankly, it is still at a huge high level. So a lot of people get sick every day. Some get very seriously ill and some die. In my opinion, therefore, the first task is to reduce the number of infections much further. Anyone who hears this, I would like to call on you to cooperate: stick to the agreements and make a contribution to them. But I would like to call on the cabinet to make that easier for people, to discuss here again what we can do to help people comply with those rules. 'Cause that's a lot of trouble. It begins with the fact that I would like to ask the Cabinet, and that is very much in line with what previous speakers have said in various ways................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ How do we get back to a low number of infections and how do we get back to normal, and how do you use tests, vaccines, treatments and the knowledge we gain? It has already been a few times about the roadmap. Jesse Klaver thought it was very clear at the press conference. I'm looking at it differently. If I tried to reach the campsite in the south of France with such a road map, it would be one big fight for the car. That's how many, I think, tried to follow that bit. What you want is for you to understand what's happening. And to say "you can only read that road map one way"... I do understand what is meant, but a road map that only shows you the way back, with which you can see where we came from, is not helping now. Entrepreneurs are getting bored with it. That was also mentioned by others. Your company is shut down on government orders. Between nose and lips, this is extended until mid-December. And yesterday it was actually extended halfway through January. That has a huge impact for a lot of people; that's very hard. The second thing I would like to ask the cabinet is to bet now on how to reduce the number of infections, not by additional restrictions, but by making things that we had already thought of easier and better. What am I talking about? Help the schools. With Rob Jetten I have tabled a motion for a resolution which has been adopted in order to better assist the schools. I haven't heard more about it, but there are always outbreaks, and very big ones, in those schools. Quarantine. Heerma talked about that. The Chamber has adopted motions for resolutions on this matter. RIVM's behavioral unit says so. There's something in the letter and in December there'll be a sequel, but, please, hurry up with it now, give people help, reimburse their expenses, compensate their lost income, help thosezzp'ers. It's really in all our interests that people can do that. Three: as of 1 December we have a duty to protect our mouths, but for many people it is expensive. So help municipalities to provide them also for free, give the food banks a role in providing mouth caps, make sure that people can meet them as well. The care workers, Marijnissen, were talking about it. I saw that IZZ said: employees who are infected do not have to pay their own risk. I think this is a wonderful example of how we can actually do something for people who are taking risks for us and on our behalf. So I ask the cabinet: broaden that, talk to the insurers, and see who else could claim it. Perhaps it also applies to other vital sectors. It is also a concrete way to ensure that people remain motivated to do this important work for us. Now the third thing I'd like to hear the cabinet about. So we know that it has become that quackwinter we feared, with a high number of infections, so it really takes a while before we can breathe relieved again. So what can we do to get people to bridge that period? Crisis jobs are important in that. Please speed that up. It's not that incredibly complicated. There are shortages in society, in care, in enforcement, at the GGD, so make sure you give people who are now at risk of losing their jobs a job there. Source and contact research can also be a way to reduce the infections now. I think the tests are getting better; happy, fine. But now that we are using that source and contact research to make sure that there are fewer follow-up infections, it can of course be great rewards if you do that now. Help people survive those lonely days, too. The cabinet announces that it will soon organise a meeting on this subject, virtually, with municipalities. Can I get a little more generous? Could I ask the cabinet to also offer these municipalities to help them and to provide them with resources so that people actually get there? And finally, for the job guarantee, including for those who have seen their income disappear, that period of uncertainty lasts longer. Here too, I would like to ask the cabinet: think of those who are now carrying the burden of the restriction, and help them through this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u45	Thank you, Madam President. We can read a road map from left to right, but not from right to left. I learned that yesterday. That was new. And if that is the case, it will, but it will help if we know how to scale down and which road map to use. So let's get some clarity on that. Mr. Chairman. If there are concerns, and they have been expressed here, about what December could do with the reproductive number, with the infections, then I should like to underline and support that. I'm worried about that, too. We are now just against 1 when it comes to that reproduction number, and if we continue at this rate, we will be at the desired level in mid-January. But what's that December month doing? And yet we're already talking about relaxations with caution. That's risky. And it clamps all the more, because the pressure on the care is enormous. Several colleagues have already spoken about this. The staff in the care is sometimes just extinct. The numbers have now, added, reached the level of the first wave, but it takes longer. And still the regular care is scaled down. Ic numbers reach a plateau. It's actually just going on, and that's asking a lot of the staff. So it is all the more pressing that we really need to keep an eye on that December month, and what we do then. It also has everything to do with behavior, with: do we stick to the measures? And then you see that only about 50% of the people who should actually go into quarantine actually go into quarantine. That's worryingly low. How do we ensure that people follow the rules better? Mr. Chairman. I was pleased with the words at the press conference on prevention, on lifestyle. So that was nice. I was also pleased with the extra funds that have been made available to the food banks. This was partly due to the initiative paper of the CDA Group and our own group. That's great, 'cause those are places that need it. I was also pleased with the announcement of the conversation with voluntary organisations and with municipalities, which Mr Asscher also spoke about. At the same time, the cabinet does so in view of the dark days before Christmas and old and new, but they come very soon. I heard yesterday that it's only five weeks till Christmas, so we need to get to work fast. If we want to encourage everyone to see each other and to take good care of each other, especially for vulnerable people, then we need to get to work very quickly. So I would say: don't talk too long, but set up municipalities, volunteer organisations and a platform like #not only really able to get to work on it, and encourage us all to look at people who need it most. As far as testing is concerned, I'm wondering if you're not getting a threatening split, seeing that the commercial tests are getting more and more popular. There's a big price on that, just about 100 bucks. Don't you get very easily a division between people who can afford it and people who can't afford it? Finally, vaccination. There are ethical dilemmas and very exciting questions. This has already been expressed in the little debate between Mr Veldman and Mr Van Haga. We don't want any compulsion. This does not fit in with the protection of physical integrity and respect for it. We've got... at the same time... At the same time, the cabinet has a collective responsibility for all of us. So you do want that vaccination rate to be very high. If you want to reach something of group immunity, the word fell again at the press conference, you'll have to go to about 70%, I heard. So we have a collective responsibility and a collective interest, and we have individual freedom and responsibility. That is an ethical dilemma. I wouldn't want a vaccination urge so quickly, especially not a direct one, but also an indirect one. At the same time, employers or organizers of a big festival or a big meeting can say: you only come in here if you have been vaccinated. So that's a pretty exciting question. Wouldn't we help ourselves if, for example, we called for a Rathenau Institute, and I would just like to mention an institution called for an ethical directive, to help with an ethical reflection on how to deal with this tension between that collective interest and that individual freedom? Those were my questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you. Mr Veldman has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u47	On that last point, Mr President. I fully agree with Mr Segers that it is quite a difficult ethical issue. Now the Cabinet has asked for an opinion from the Health Council on how to deal with vaccination. In my opinion, the Health Council also has the Ethics and Law Committee. Does Mr Segers agree with me that the opinion of the Health Council should include such ethical considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u48	I hope so. I hope that these aspects will be taken into account, because as soon as we consider a vaccination programme, I believe that ethics is an immediate part of this. I have outlined the dilemma, so that should also have an immediate place in that reflection. But there's no harm in asking for broader advice. I think we're all doing us a favor. If that pressure comes to the decision-making process, to the cabinet, where we are faced with something new, something very big, then we need to take a break for a moment, and then we need to have a wider consultation. If that's on the table, we can talk about it again. 'Cause I see the dilemmas popping up and coming at me. I am already giving an answer, but perhaps I should just swallow it and ask for those advice first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u49	I think Mr Segers is right to express concerns about whether the number of infections is falling fast enough. There is now, of course, plenty of discussion about the Christmas period and at all about the end of the year. There may be some kind of relaxation, if I use that word just as well, but if you read the OMT opinion, they are critical about it. Actually, it says more or less: "It is a political consideration, but if you want it if necessary... But know that the tail of the peak is going to take longer, so the pressure on the caregivers and on the people who now all have to keep their tent public shut." How does Mr Segers view that? How does he weigh those things?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u50	First of all, when I think about my own situation and about Christmas, and I think about my mother, I think it really sucks if I'm prescribed that you are indeed with up to six people with us that number of seats can be filled pretty quickly around the table. I really don't like that, really, really annoying. At the same time, we have a responsibility. I also refer to the pressure on healthcare, which Mr Marijnissen himself spoke about, which is simply increasing. That's where you hear the stories that people just can't take it anymore. So I have a responsibility in that. What weighs most is the collective interest in a further decline in the figures. The shape of my Christmas dinner needs to be adapted; it may go on, but it can go on in adapted form. To be honest, I'm concerned that we're talking too fast about easing. We have a few days of falling figures and then we think: we're back. No, we're far from there. Because if we continue at this rate, apart from Christmas, we will only be at the level we should be at in mid-January, where you can stop and control it. That's way too late, so I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u51	I understand that Mr Segers is looking forward to a nice Christmas with friends and family.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u52	And a divine service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u53	And even a divine service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u54	Where everyone's welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u55	Where everyone is also welcome. But that is precisely the point: do we have enough insight into what would result from it? Because the OMT says, as I say, for clarity: you can stretch the group size slightly and celebrate Christmas with six, but that has consequences and will ensure that the pressure on care lasts longer. It makes for a longer tail in the second peak, as I believe they call it. To put it bluntly: does Mr Segers have the idea that we have enough concrete evidence to say yes to exactly what we would do if we did?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u56	We do not say yes to anything yet, because the cabinet will be here on 8 December, I have heard, with further announcements about Christmas. How do we get into Christmas and what happens to old and new? Those measures will come. But I do share those concerns. We really need to keep our finger on the wrist. It just doesn't go down fast enough now, let alone make that drop stop by rising numbers again mid-December and around Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the cabinet which accepts the proposal by GroenLinks and my group to put in place a ban on fireworks this year. The care can't have those hundreds of victims this year. The second thing that we are very pleased with this time is that yesterday, during the press conference, the cabinet pointed out the importance of healthy life. Within the exit strategy that we have, we can vaccinate as many people as possible and we can bet on better medication and quick testing, as the Cabinet wants, but we also really need to work on that better basic health. To my question whether the government plays an important role in this, Mr Van Dissel and Mr Kuipers answered yes this morning. I understand that the cabinet is also planning this and wants to focus more on communication. We're really very happy about that, but we're not there yet. We are also curious whether other concrete steps are being taken to improve basic health. But we certainly welcome the first steps we see now. That is a critical question on our part. For two weeks there has been a negative travel advice for abroad, with the exception of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. We see a run on airline tickets to Curaçao, while the infections are just getting there. We therefore do not think that this exception is really sensible and would like to ask the Cabinet whether it would not be a good idea to simply withdraw it. I'd like a response to that. We're curious how we can prevent that from happening there. Mr President, here's the thing. The cabinet has not yet shown that it is truly aware of the lessons we have learned and learned from the Q-fever crisis that we have had, and that while the next animal disease is already spreading in the Netherlands. The signs indicate a major outbreak of a serious and fatal variant of the avian influenza virus for birds. That's why Professor Thijs Kuik warned us. He calls it ominous that the virus appears so early. Already almost everywhere in the country many dead wild birds have been found. Already there have been bird flu outbreaks at four poultry farms. The Minister of LNV takes on the well-known measures: the gas of hundreds of thousands of chickens and ducks, the cutting up of all chickens and a hunting ban within a radius of 10 kilometres. Measures which are clearly not keeping the virus out of the door, while the most dangerous months are yet to come. On top of that, there is the danger that this virus, like the corona virus in mink, will mutate. I am also curious if the Minister knows how many mutations are needed before human avian influenza virus is transmitted to humans. Scientists have been warning about this for years. At a time when a bird flu virus changes so that it can easily spread to humans, there is a pandemic with a death rate that is many times higher than a corona virus. We simply should not want to take this risk. Effective measures are therefore very much needed. We would like to hear from the Minister of VWS what his ministry is doing in this area. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the meat sector, which is a subject which we often come back to. In fact, the Chamber has adopted a motion after a motion in recent months to deal with this. Ensure that all directives are complied with, immediately reduce the rate of slaughter, take control nationwide, make a plan of action, set a reporting obligation. Very good; motion after motion was adopted. The Minister sent a letter today on the implementation of some of these motions. And thank you again for that. It is good that initiatives are being taken, really. A collaborative platform for migrant workers and a national board of directors are really very good. But here too, unfortunately, we are not here yet. We hear that there have recently been 60 to 70 infections at one large slaughterhouse, and now another 20 at the same plant. The health and safety regions are not in the picture in this case, and this is happening at more slaughterhouses. In fact, the GGD has only carried out a sample at one slaughterhouse since June. This is why this reporting obligation, on which we tabled a motion two weeks ago and were also adopted, is so much needed. We really need to work on that. In fact, where citizens are increasingly fined for violating the rules, the meat sector is getting away with another invitation to talk. As far as we are concerned, this cannot take longer, and that is also very difficult to explain to society. We are curious to see what the Minister's response is and what he intends to do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u59	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u60	Madam President. I don't know if the Stockdale paradox is known here. I heard him for the first time this weekend, about an American officer who spent eight years in prison of war in Vietnam, under harsh circumstances. He survived, many of his comrades didn't. After all these years, they asked him, "Who the hell got away from you, who didn't make it?" Then he said: the optimists. That was very surprising, because you would think that the optimists could stand it. But the problem was that every time they said: in three weeks it will be over; in six weeks it will be over. They couldn't keep up. Those who were optimistic and at the same time also had an eye for the painful reality reckoned with possibilities, but also did not cling to perspectives that they could not live up to. That was Stockdale's paradox. If I apply that to this subject, Mr President, I am glad that my time is not running until now, I say: it is moving in the right direction, but we are far from there. That's about the summary of last night's press conference. There are no new tightenings, but there are not really any great relaxations. And the question of perspective has, of course, been asked by many again today. The Roadmap did not provide the basis we were hoping for. For us too it was surprising to hear that it was true for scaling up, but not for scaling down. The question of the SGP Group is: what is the instrument with which we see a little more scope for scaling down measures? What does the road look like there, and what lies beyond the horizon? Mr. Chairman. Yes, we need measures that we need to maintain, also to reduce the number of infections, to reduce the pressure on hospitals, to allow for more regular care. At the same time, however, it is our duty to always take a critical look at whether the measures we are taking are necessary and proportionate, also because there are all kinds of other values at stake. What does that mean, for example, for people's mental well-being? That is also very important. As far as the duty of mouth cap is concerned, you could say that it's not that big a deal, right? Advice becomes a duty. However, it is a further violation of people's privacy. That is why the critical question is: what exactly does this contribute to the fight against virus? There are all kinds of implementation and enforcement questions. The SGP Group's perception is that there has been an increase in compliance with this urgent opinion. In the even clearer indication would still be profitable. Why not do that and not take another step towards a duty, I ask the government. Another point that is important in the context of the perspective is how we protect the right to privacy. That goes for the whole vaccination debate, of course. We have also wholeheartedly supported Mr Azarkan's motion to say that there is no direct or indirect vaccination obligation. But it also applies to the question of what this test society of the future looks like. Do we think it is normal that you should be able to submit a negative test result for each meeting so to speak? That also affects people's privacy. Again, I see the importance and value of testing, but it is also about the other side: what exactly is the development that we are putting into motion? Perhaps that is another point that can be taken into account in an ethical reflection that Mr Segers pointed out. Then about working at home. The OMT advises that working at home should be the norm in the coming months. It's not the first time. This also applies when the number of infections has become very low. That's a well-known point. Here too, what I just mentioned is true. It affects a lot of people in their well-being. That is why the question is: do we really know how and under what conditions the infections occur in work situations? What additional measures could be taken to combat these infections in the workplace? The OMT opinion also raised the question of regional measures in the near future. The OMT advises that the Minister should decide which measures apply in which regions. My question is: how does the cabinet deal with this part of the OMT opinion? The OMT actually says that regional measures are sometimes necessary, but let that be more the responsibility of the cabinet. Well, that's another change of perspective, isn't it? I'm curious to see how the cabinet looks at that. Finally, the care staff. You'll hear back from the care workers that they're starting to become coronamoe. This is in the care of the elderly and, for example, in the care of the disabled. Is employers adequately provided for offering mental care, conversations with psychologists or just conversations with colleagues to process experiences? What really doesn't help to stay motivated is the whole care bonus thing. A caretaker said to me: "Our motto has always been: we do this together. Now I have to make a distinction. That causes irritation and tension in the workplace. All in all, I wish at this moment that there had been no bonus. It's very frustrating that I've wasted so much time and energy on this." That is a cry of hearts that, unfortunately, we often hear and understand. I think that bonus is a very nice idea, but it's painful that it turns out that way. I ask the Minister: what more can we do to ensure that the regulation is applied as generously as possible so that we avoid this misery? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. Perspective was the key word of last night, but at the press conference Rutte and De Jonge managed to help miscommunication and uncertainty in the world. Should we stay in the partial lockdown until January, or not again? Can we do something more during the holidays, or not again? These are questions that many Dutch people are working on day in, day out at the moment. Because they see their business languishing during this crisis. Because they need social contact and company. The cabinet cannot give these people sufficient clarity, because we are still not enough to reduce contamination rates with all measures. It is really important that this cabinet does more to ensure that the basic opinions are respected. There seems to be endless poldering, with insufficient results. If the partial lockdown indeed lasts until mid-January, then many people in the hospitality business are sitting still for two months. Other industries also suffer from this. DENK wants the cabinet to prepare additional support packages and remove the current aid packages from the table. Yesterday, too little was said about the silent disaster that is taking place in the nursing homes, where the most vulnerable elderly are staying, which we must protect. Every day, the virus sneaks into 11 nursing homes on average. Over the past two weeks, 2,317 elderly people have been tested positive. A quarter of them die. Those are our grandpas and grandmas. The aim of protecting our vulnerable elderly people has not been achieved. Why is there no emphasis on strengthening measures in the nursing homes? As strict as the government acts against the catering industry, on the street and in public transport, there is also a need to take action in the nursing homes. What's the Cabinet gonna do to make this change? I'm coming to the vaccination. There is a clear statement from the Chamber following a DENK motion: vaccination should not be mandatory, whether it is direct or indirect. However, we heard the Minister of Health say that other measures may apply to people who do not take the vaccine. The VVD hinted at that during the debate today. In that case, is there really a covert vaccination obligation? Why does the Minister side with a ruling in the Chamber? We also see companies in the country that already indicate that they are going to refuse people who have not vaccinated. Is the government prepared to ban this by law as an ultimatum remedium? At this point, I am considering tabling a motion. In addition, we see a decreasing trend in the willingness to inject. What does the cabinet intend to do if the willingness rate is lower than the required vaccination rate? Is this possible scenario also included in the vaccination strategy and the return to life before corona? Why do we have to wait for the vaccination strategy to be presented to the Chamber? Why not a proactive attitude? DENK asks the government to present a vaccination strategy that takes into account a Netherlands in which part of the population refuses to take the vaccine, also to consider what this does to the reputation of the Netherlands worldwide. Finally, a point about what happens to people's DNA material and body material after having been tested for corona in good faith. Two weeks ago, I talked about that too. A lot of people in society are worried about what happens to their materials. Is my DNA shared with others? Is my DNA being stored? Are my body materials being used for research? Who gets access to the DNA material? These are concerns of many Dutch people, who unfortunately seem to be right. After I asked for this in the previous debate, the Minister's letter showed that our fear was true. Laboratories can store body material for up to three months. They may carry out research on such body materials and may also share those materials with third parties. It's kind of shocking, actually. Without people knowing, or without permission from them, their body material or DNA material is used for research and is shared with third parties, while it is not clear what happens to them. That is why it is important that people's permission is requested at the front. Why isn't that permission requested? Why doesn't anyone know this and why isn't people told about this? Which researchers are actually sharing this data with? This lack of transparency is precisely why people do not trust the tests. And to think that this cabinet actually wants everyone in the Netherlands to be tested monthly from March onwards. Think straight. DNA and body materials belong to people themselves. If it is used for research, it must be provided with information and consent from the front. I will table a motion on this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u63	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr. Chairman. We finally see a little light at the end of the tunnel, but that light still blinks on and off. The number of infections per day is starting to look more and more favourable, even though there are still thousands of them a day. We also see the R-number going further and further down. I would like to take a positive look at these developments, but I find that difficult. Especially when I remember the previous Corona debate, in which the Minister indicated that the story of the commercial test streets is increasingly being told and that all positive tests are being recorded. Can the Minister tell us if the commercial test results are now better in view? Or are we simply basing our policies on incomplete information? For 50PLUS, ventilation systems in nursing homes are of great importance. I've been talking about it before. This is a recurring topic. During the Corona debate on 4 November, the Minister indicated that they had to comply with the 2012 Building Decision and that ActiZ actively asked its members to pay attention to ventilation systems. On 11 November ActiZ released a checklist for ventilation systems. 50PLUS first of all wonders what the Minister means by "active approach." Secondly, 50PLUS would like clarification on whether the Building Decision was ever intended to act as a measuring bar for the quality of ventilation systems. 50PLUS would like to see good research on air quality and aerosols in nursing homes. This is important not only for today during corona, but also for flu, shingles and other infectious viruses that can often be found in nursing homes. Does the Minister see the urgency of this? Is he willing to organize research, as far as we're concerned, as soon as possible? Home care's having a hard time. Home care organisations should increasingly care for corona patients who have been released from hospital and who sometimes have very serious problems and need care for months to come. Especially single people, who already have little contact with others, can have extra difficulty. During the first wave, all attention was paid to the ic's and the hospitals, and the home care and the neighborhood care were hanging out at the back of the car. We shouldn't let that happen this time. Can the Minister reduce the pressure on home care organisations? And can the Minister make national agreements on healthcare hotels and other first-line accommodations to improve cooperation between hospitals and home care organisations? We're still in the middle of the corona crisis, but another crisis is knocking at the front door. During the corona crisis, 1 million fewer references were made to hospitals. The hospitals want to do everything they can to make up for the delayed care. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for keeping his promise yesterday by pointing out to the people that they should go to the general practitioner with complaints. But the hospitals need to be better supported. Then there's the road map. How are we supposed to read it? It's a one-way ticket, but how we get back is not clear. And that's where he comes in again, the perspective that people need. When will that become clearer? Last night at the press conference, when it was about the vaccination strategy, I heard the Minister say he's been working on it for months. I am very curious to know what the situation is and when we will hear about it. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the support measures. Over the past few months, the cabinet has supported several sectors financially. Do not throw away the many billions that we have put into the economy and employment by losing those aid and recovery measures! This isn't the time. This also applies: hang in there! Expand the test capacity on a large scale as soon as possible, as this reduces absenteeism at work! This is also at the service of economic recovery. As long as the test capacity is not yet on strength, ask employers to have their employees work at home. One final short question, Mr President. What about the flu shots? Can anyone with vulnerable health get a flu shot if they want it? Finally, we should not forget to once again show respect for all those who work so hard during the corona crisis. I sincerely hope that we will all continue to follow the rules. I am thinking of the slogan of the hospital staff at the Reinier de Graafshoekenhuis: "We stand up for you! Do you follow the rules for us?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u65	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I shall now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most important corona news came not at the press conference, but this morning in the letter. I read more lights than I heard last night. More tests so that everyone can find out more often and more quickly if one is infected. Travelers from abroad can finally be better screened. Beautiful! That gives hope and many people urgently need it. Make sure we all have good courage. Ensure greater empathy for what lives among the people, who have been suffering from severe measures for over a year now. More and more people are rebelling. The willingness to be vaccinated is decreasing. I would like to say to the cabinet: don't go too far ahead of the troops. Walk with us. The ministers could have shown a little more empathy yesterday. Do they forget in all their hustle and bustle, what I respect, that the people are having a hard time? There are a lot of questions. Why don't you go celebrate sintering class with your family on a full plane to Curaçao? And why are we shaving the whole hospitality business on the same page? There is a difference between an overcrowded pub and a restaurant where people sit remotely at tables. The latter seems even safer than eating at home. Fortunately, there is a view of vaccines, but what about the temperature at which they should be stored? Is it true that the Pfizer vaccines are kept at at least -70°C? Is it true that the freezers that are suitable for this are manufactured in the Netherlands and that they are ordered from all over the world, but that no interest has yet been shown from the Netherlands? I hope to hear that message isn't true. Finally, the mouth caps. I would really recommend everyone to wear them. But there are also people who suffer from it, who have problems with their lungs, or who are afraid of it. My question is, what can these people do? Can they be exempted or will they be subject to an obligation? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. This contribution is, of course, partly on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. It's annoying to have to keep asking, but the uncertainty surrounding the PCR test is still current. In Portugal, the judge has already referred the PCR test to the trash can. When will I finally get answers to my questions about changing the number of cycles and the number of targets? It can't be that hard, can it? A lot of people are worried about the duty to protect their mouth. RIVM has been crystal clear about mouth caps, namely: the effect is negligible and provides false safety. In addition, TU Delft tests show that most mouth caps do not work at all. Many people use the same mouth cap for days, which also introduces a medical risk to the wearer himself. And how about the concerns of lung patients and other people who, for medical or psychological reasons, cannot wear a mask? Can the Minister explain again why he wants to introduce a duty to protect his mouth when the effect is minimal or even counterproductive? Mr. Chairman. Another splitting theme is the direct or indirect vaccination obligation. Minister De Jonge has often indicated that a vaccine is our only salvation. Fortunately, a motion by DENK against the obligation to vaccinate has now been adopted, stating that the VVD and D66 voted against this motion, and therefore for an indirect or direct vaccination obligation. Can the Minister remove the fear by confirming that there will be no direct or indirect vaccination obligation? How is the Minister going to ensure that no one is excluded, not even those who decide not to be vaccinated? Mr. Chairman. I don't know what's so funny, but apparently something's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u69	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u70	I don't think it's funny.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u71	It has nothing to do with you, but mostly with suspension and that kind of practical thing. Please continue. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. Chairman. This coronakabinet doesn't excel in coming up with solutions. Is there really no solution to be found where the catering industry can just open up again, but with some clever measures? Yesterday's relaxations are not relaxations. Restaurants have no perspective and are still in danger of collapse. Why not opt for a solution with quick tests at the front door and good ventilation, so that the risk is acceptable low, but the huge damage to the sector is limited? And isn't it time to give colleges and universities physical education again, by abandoning the one-and-a-half meter rule? If it is possible for secondary schools, then it should also be possible for further education. Smart solutions instead of an unwise lockdown. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u73	Thank you. Then we will be on the side of the Chamber at the end of the first term. Since you were the last speaker, I had to tune in for how long I have to suspend. That's why. I won't ask you to do that. There is a need for a long suspension, so it will immediately be an early dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u74	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you, Mr President. The division of roles that we had imagined is as follows. The Minister of VWS will talk about testing, about vaccination, about vulnerable people and finally about zoonoses related to corona. Then Minister Van Ark will talk about the broader zoonoses issues that don't touch corona. She will also talk about care premiums, regular care, including deferred care and referrals, and sport. I'll take care of the other questions. Having said that, I would like to begin with the issue of the roadmap. We are going to send the roadmap back to the Chamber at the beginning of December. Then it will mainly be about levels 1 and 2; the basis should be more solid. The basis needs to be strengthened on the basis of the many discussions we have had here, in particular on Level 2. We discussed in September and in other debates that the scaling-up of measures was not heavy enough. So level two needs to be strengthened anyway. But also level 1, so level vigilant, will have to be stronger. Because if that had been strong enough, we wouldn't have to get the virus back in July and August. We did not have the road map at the time, but we already had these measures in mind. So that's one thing that has to happen with the roadmap. Two. The return to the roadmap is simple. You can't go back in the road map one step at a time. Once the infections have been contracted, there are too many people in a hospital, the delayed care has increased and the number of infectiouss is at an adequate level, you cannot go back one step at a time. Once you're up in the road map, the only choice is with the measures you have to go all the way back to box 1. But we want to see if we can do something by mid-December anyway, and then more specifically looking at Christmas and New Year's Eve. So that's different. I hope we can, but we're very careful about it. It's really still surrounded by uncertainty. We're gonna talk to the Chamber about that, too. So this is not in the Roadmap, because the Roadmap does not really provide for such an intermediate step, but we are going to see if that is possible towards Christmas sometime in mid-December. If you can't, you can't. But the way it's developing now, we think it's possible. With the indicators you have to think of the ten ic-recordings per day, where you are in the first box again on the three ic-recordings per day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u76	Interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u77	Well!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u79	It was a little cynical, but I'd be happy to be nice. Listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u80	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u81	I would like to comment on the atmosphere in the cabinet before the Prime Minister begins the content. I understand he's not responding to it, or maybe he is, but at least it was the beginning of my input. Whether we like it or not, we have seen that ministers, or at least coalition people, called the Minister of Health a man with "absolute, fact-free delusions." I will not repeat everything else that is being called, because then it seems as if that is why I am doing it, and that is really not the case. That minister is sitting next to you. And colleagues of yours, whether they come from the Council of Ministers or from the coalition, call the Minister of Health someone with "absolute, fact-free delusions" and then let it leak to the press again. These are people at the top of the coalition, if not within the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u82	I am not going to comment on whether or not such statements have been made. I can tell the Chamber that this is a coalition of four parties in which everything, but also everything, is fought. We have been doing this since October 2017 and we always come out okay. There's a fight about everything. It is now, of course, a very exciting time, which concerns and affects people enormously. This applies to the whole of the Netherlands, to 17 million people, and of course to the members of the cabinet, who feel particularly responsible for it. Indeed, this sometimes leads to very intense debates, where we always come out well. I don't like the fact that some of it leaks to the press every once in a while. I'm not going into the question of whether what leaked is correct or not. It's always better to talk with each other than to talk with each other. But given the fact that it is such a violent time, when we are talking about such big issues, it is not entirely possible to avoid it. I've been doing this for ten years and I haven't always managed to keep it completely quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u83	But I do not think Mr Wilders has finished his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u84	Oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thanks for the answer, but this is just too easy. Anyone who's been walking around here for a while knows that there are times when doors are slammed and things happen. I don't blame you for that either. For days, even weeks, in succession, there have been comments. For example, you would have said that people in the cabinet are disloyal to cabinet policy. There are also people who say they want to destroy the Deputy Prime Minister and that you've had a tantrum. You can do all that. But saying that the Health Minister is someone with moron, I mean, grosser can hardly be factually delusional and that you are now saying: I am not going into it... If a fellow minister has said this about another minister, you have a huge problem. Not only because the minister thinks and says this, but also because this minister actively brings this to the press. The press isn't making this up. Someone from your own circle has told you this. I'm gonna stop talking about it like that. Everyone understands that the moods can rise sometime. Everyone also understands that there's been a fight. It is hypocritical to say that this cannot and cannot be done. But this is a time when people fight for their care. They want them to have surgery, get paychecks, or their company doesn't go down. People are looking at you to offer a solution and a perspective. And then someone from your own circle calls you the prime minister, you are not, but that is Minister Hugo de Jonge, someone with retarded, fact-free delusions. That is not only a great insult, but also shows the concrete rot in your cabinet. You have to say a little more about that than just: I am not going to go into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u86	Indeed, I do not go into what is claimed in the media about me or about others in the cabinet. I'm not gonna let myself out of this whether this is true or not. The general point is that it is a coalition of four parties. These parties are not preparing for a merger between these four parties, but are thinking completely differently about just about everything. In 2017, these parties said in the country's interest: we're going to do the job together. Our country is now facing one of the biggest crises, perhaps the biggest crisis that our country has faced in peacetime, at least since the Second World War. Now this coalition is trying to deal with this crisis in the national interest. I think we're doing this conscientiously. Sometimes there are very strong discussions, with sometimes great emotions. To be honest, I'm happy about that, too. I prefer that rather than that Hugo de Jonge, me or Van Ark gives an analysis of the problems, we say what we want to do and everyone says: then we have to do so. No, the debate is starting with a heated debate. That's exactly how you want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u87	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u88	Finally. Again, it's not about what others say about it and that this can be fierce for once. It's about what's happening within the bosom of your own cabinet. A colleague calls the prime minister a moron or someone with retarded delusions. This is an insult on all sides. I don't have to explain. And that you then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u89	What exactly did they say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u90	This is an insult on all sides. Yeah, you can make a joke about it, but trust me, it's serious. It's no joke to call the Health Minister a person with retarded, fact-free delusions. That's an insult to the bone. I didn't call him that. Someone from your own circle called him that. It shows the concrete rot of this cabinet. It's too easy for you to get rid of it. I often disagree with you, but I hope you will continue without a fight and resolve the problems. I hope you'll stop calling each other rotten fish. That is, by the way, bread robberies; we must do so as an opposition. I hope that you will stop this between yourselves and certainly not bring it to the press anymore, because this is an image that is of no use to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u91	I can assure Wilders one thing, and I can't insure one thing. I can assure him that this cabinet, all four parties, all ministers and secretaries of state and the four parliamentary groups, of course, I have less control over that, but I am very much in touch with all of them, and they all realize that we have to face this enormous crisis together. At the same time, this is what happens when you add up all the members of the political groups, ministers and State Secretaryes - 101 people of flesh and blood. They are dealing with this crisis in terms of content, but also emotionally and mentally incredibly. They're trying to do the right thing. I'm glad. It's never okay if things about that appear in the media. I'm not going into the question of whether these things are right. However, this is generally not good. I cannot guarantee that this will never happen again until the elections. I really can't guarantee that. I do notice that everyone realizes that this is not good, but I'm not giving any guarantees. I will give you another guarantee: one, we all realize here what responsibility we have and two, that this should never lead to delays in decision-making. That didn't happen. We have not had any delay in decision-making. That's crucial. So the debate can be conducted in all intensity and firmness, but this must not lead to a delay in decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u92	The Prime Minister claims that the discussion in the cabinet does not lead to delays in decision-making. But this discussion leads to confusion, perhaps not in decision-making, but in external measures and communication. We can see that on the conveyor belt. We see this because we are going from press conference to press conference to press conference, when we have all been asking for a lot more perspective and a little more clarity for a long time. We also see it in the constant deviation from the Roadmap. The package we had before was not on the road map. That was sort of an intermediate package. I hear the Prime Minister now announce that there is another kind of intermediate package that is not on the road map either. That leads to the weird situations we were in last time, where you can buy a book but not borrow it. Let that be just the discussion, unfortunately, we have to hear it from the newspapers, which is raging in the cabinet. It concerns economic interests on the one hand and the interests of public health on the other. Surely the Prime Minister must recognize that? The occasional argument in the cabinet is your business, but it is at the expense of clarity about the measures. And that is a fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u93	No, I'm not. That's not true at all. Yeah, there's been some intense discussion. I'm not running away from that. I can't guarantee that there won't be anything in the paper about that again. We have good journalists in the Netherlands and they sometimes hear things. That's also part of the phase in which we talk so intensely. I have to say, everyone realizes it's not a good picture. So I think it's gonna be less now, but we'll see. The important thing is no delay. The most important thing is, in the end, a coalition that wants to tackle the crisis in a united way. But it is not true that it would lead to ambiguity in decision-making outwards. No, absolutely not. The road map is here. There are roadmaps across Europe. I have a lot of contact with my European colleagues. Everywhere you can see that reality is only to a certain extent kneading towards such a road map. These roadmaps should therefore be updated everywhere with the latest knowledge and information. In the Netherlands, for example, we have often talked about level 2.... was not strong enough. We now believe that even level 1, if we come up with the update on 8 December, should be sharper. So that has nothing to do with the internal cabinet discussions. That's just because you finally have new insights. You're gonna have to put that back in those road maps. The two-week accelerator of reducing the number of infections to relieve the care a little more and to have the package delivered a little faster on 13 October has been an explicit decision of the entire cabinet. We're all behind that. This is not provided for in the Roadmap. That's what I said last time. So that's what we'll add. The fact that you sometimes have to put a booster, an accelerator on it to achieve your goals even earlier is also an insight. But when fighting a pandemic like this, you should be able to gain new insights during the journey. That's inevitable. If anyone here thinks you can call the virus and say "if you agree with this roadmap, we're going to publish it now," I can say that unfortunately that's not possible. You get new insights and you have to incorporate them into the roadmap. We are. I'm not ashamed of that. That's really part of fighting a crisis, where you don't have all the knowledge and part of it has to make decisions with inefficient insight, because you don't have everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u94	I think a few months ago there was a better understanding of that. Of course, we will continuously gain new insights. There's no one here to dispute that either. So I think it's a bit faint of the Prime Minister, because that's not the point, of course. The point is that many Dutch people no longer understand the measures, because there are so many contradictions in them. If there is a piece of paper, we need to hear it from the newspaper, in which part of this Prime Minister's cabinet says 'the testing capacity is not so well-ordered that the virus is likely to grow up when we are going to relax', then that naturally leads to questions on our part. If that is combined with measures that are contradictory in themselves, I just mentioned that you can buy a book but you can't borrow it, isn't it weird that there's no understanding of it? The Prime Minister can't get rid of that if: it's logical, it's complicated, of course we have discussions and we're constantly getting new insights? Of course, I'll tell Prime Minister. But what does that mean for the coming period? Because we've been in this crisis for a while. Does that mean that we will still be going from press conference to press conference to press conference in the near future, with no perspective or clarity as to what the path is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u95	I am going to talk about the perspective, because I think that is pretty sharp by now. However, we will have regular press conferences in which we will analyse the situation and explain why we need to do what we are going to do at that time. I would like to point out the countries around us. The whole of Europe has to do with a second wave, which, of course, we all wanted to avoid. When we gave our press conference yesterday, there were press conferences in Luxembourg and Austria, not at the same time but around that time, on a complete lockdown and one in Sweden on tightening up the measures. On Monday there was a heated discussion in Germany between the federal level and the sixteen Länder about taking further action. Look also at the situation in France, Spain and Italy, where the average number of infections is still above 30,000 per day. So the whole of Europe has something to do with it. The whole of Europe also has to do with as much predictability as possible, but at the same time the constant processing of new insights into your policy. That's one thing. In addition, there is just intense political discussion in a coalition and a cabinet. Once again, it is important that this does not lead to delays and that it leads as little as possible to the dissemination of those discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u96	I think we should note that this is not the normal high-rise debate. Because it's been published in the newspapers in all sorts of ways with words, Wilders repeated them ten times, which aren't quite normal. And then the Prime Minister says, "Yes, but it's part of a four-party coalition." I wonder if that's actually true. On the dividend tax, political parties agreed or disagreed. Is it the Prime Minister's statement that this discussion has to do with different views of the political parties on the crisis? That's not true at all, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u97	The intensity of the crisis is enormous. We are now moving with 17 million people over the mountain, in the worst crisis that the Netherlands is going through after the Second World War. It is up to this cabinet to lead it in a sensible way. We do this with modesty in our personal positions, but with a great sense of responsibility for what we collectively must do for the Netherlands. This is also accompanied by conscientious, violent debates. Of course you prefer to keep it completely internal, but it is not possible to exclude that they also come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u98	That's a nice answer, but not to my question. The Prime Minister said in reply to Mr Wilders that if you have a coalition of four parties that are not going to merge, it is simply that sometimes you have very intense debates and that sometimes it is going to be in the newspaper. My question was: that is not true, or at least it may be, but that is not at all the case here? We saw Mona Keijzer say something different on the same night than Hugo de Jonge. We read that there are discussions within the same party. That it is a serious crisis, we are very much in agreement here. The question I'm asking is next. I don't think the Prime Minister was telling the truth, using an excuse. This is not a normal argument, a fierce debate, between political parties. This is in the bosom of the cabinet, on its own team. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u99	Partly, yes, of course. In the biggest post-war crisis, it is not surprising, in my opinion, that there are intense discussions about it. I'm not ashamed of that at all. I'd find the opposite much worse. So it is not so that everyone would think: oh, those three who always do the debates with the Chamber; we listen to them sometimes and then we all go back to our own task. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are also colleagues in the cabinet who deal with certain aspects. Look at the colleagues from Education, or the ministers who are dealing with combating the economic consequences of the crisis or on issues of loneliness. Of course, they have a direct involvement in the indirect sense, or even directly, in the corona crisis. But the other members of the cabinet are also working on it. Everyone is working hard on it, because everyone, even here in the Chamber, sees 17 million Dutch people, we all, Mr Asscher, I, everyone in his personal life, see what a huge impact this has. So if ever there was a discussion or politics has anything to do with people's personal lives: here's your proof. In such a large pandemic, politics must lead it wisely. That's accompanied by intense conversations. Of course, you'd prefer to keep them in-house, but they can also come out. That is not just between the parties, if Mr Asscher is looking for nuance: it can also be between ministers from the same party. That's all part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u100	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u101	We have established that it had nothing to do with that four-party coalition. It's an argument in the cabinet. It's possible. It's better to keep that inside, because it's distracting from what's really going on. Then there's the second question I have. I heard the Prime Minister say: afterward, we were given the insight that it would have been better to intervene more firmly, namely in July-August. That was that level one the Prime Minister referred to. We have discussed this on a regular basis. I think this is a very important lesson. I also think it is true; it is no guarantee that you could have prevented a second wave, but it could have been deflected earlier. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he wants to apply those lessons in trying to prevent a third wave and whether he is also prepared to put the lessons he learned in the second wave on paper for the Chamber, so that we are sure that we are now using a different, better strategy against such a third wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u102	Now we need to be very precise. First, on the previous point. It is, of course, a discussion between ministers, but it is also an aspect of a coalition of different parties. That's what I'm gonna keep going. That is what Mr Asscher and I do not agree on. Then there is the second point. What we are going to do is report to the Chamber in the update of the roadmap, as soon as it arrives, where we are going to look for tightening up in those levels 1 and 2. We've talked about level two before. You saw it all over Europe at the speed of scaling. Maybe it wasn't so much the speed of scaling, but the social atmosphere around that scaling of "maybe the virus is gone." We have also experienced this collectively in the Netherlands sometimes too much in the period of June, especially July and early August. Then what's the answer to that? What do you have to do to take the necessary measures at that level of concern? This will lead to the tightening up at level 1. We're not going to send letters about that separately with lessons learned. You will find in that roadmap how we do that. The lessons learned in a broad sense you received in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u103	Good. Then I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u104	Finally, Mr President. So there was a collective too much letting go. I believe that the cabinet is the one who, in consultation with and after approval of the Chamber, takes measures, both on scale and on scale. I find it very strange to say now: afterward that was a collective problem. No, the cabinet reacted too late and too weak. On the contrary, I am pleased that the Prime Minister is now saying that it was not just the discussion we had on the October package, but that it was before. The sooner you intervene, the less people get sick and the less damage to the economy comes. I would therefore ask him, politely but urgently, to note and apply the lessons of the second wave, which were not in the letter from summer, because then we hoped that there would be lessons from the first wave, so that we would not be able to face another third wave, a third crisis like this. I'm asking him to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u105	However, once again very precisely, because Mr Asscher misunderstood my answer. I am not saying that the cabinet is shifting responsibility for what happened in June and July to society, but it is true that collectively this is what you see all over the world, at least in the Western, Eastern and Southern European countries, a feeling of: perhaps that virus is a bit gone and we can do much more than we could. This has not so much to do with the package of measures, but also with the general feeling. Of course, this is, first and foremost, a responsibility of the cabinet, in communication. We see that all over Europe. We also see throughout Europe that the second wave began to wake up again from August. We have talked here earlier about September, about how we should have weighed down those regional packages. The fact that that second wave could get going at all, we have also talked about this more often.Of course, it says something about what happened in the Netherlands in August. That has nothing to do with timing, as I have said before. I believe that Chamber and Cabinet have taken timely action. It has to do with the heaviness. Mr Asscher and I have talked about timing more often. We disagree on that, but we agree on the heaviness. We will also incorporate this in the roadmaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u106	Jetten's motion contained three dots. The final point was a call to instruct the cabinet to complete that scaling. That motion was made a long time ago. I was wondering if it was carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u107	Yes. The scale is that you always have to go back to level 1. Once you're too high, it's just a matter of getting all the way back to level 1 and then back to level 1 package. That is what we expect in the Netherlands about mid-January. We said because of Christmas, but also because we see that things are getting a little better, that we want to look seriously by mid-December, also together with the OMT, whether you can do a little bit more, even if you are not on level 1 yet, but gradually on the signal value of those ten ic-records, and perhaps something extra for Christmas. We're gonna do that very carefully. Executing the Jetten motion at that point is that you always have to go back to level 1. That is precisely for the reason Mr Heerma mentioned: you do not want to slow down the decline. What we are doing now is thinking whether you can't do a very small brakemink about mid-December by making a little bit perhaps something possible again. But if you strictly apply the roadmap, you really shouldn't. Then you should wait all the way until mid-January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u108	Does that mean that the roadmap that was made for the summer is integrated into the plans and the feasibility of scaling down obligations to gain more freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u109	Yes, but the scaling is always back to level one. It's that easy. So if you're in level 4, like now, you have to go all the way under the roadmap to level 1. You're not going through those other steps. At some point, on the road, you're gonna be on those ten Ic shots a day. What we really want to look at now is whether you could not do something already, which, by the way, slows down the decline. Then maybe you're in the second half of January on those three then mid-January, the expectation is. So it'll take a little longer. On the other hand, because we've had two weeks of acceleration, you can see that we're probably a little bit earlier on those ten ic-recordings a day in December. So we think it can be justified, but that depends entirely on how it develops over the next few weeks. We're very careful about that. It may also be that you have to say at the beginning of December: it is not fast enough, unfortunately it is not possible. But we think at this point that it might be possible to do so in December. That is a very cautious first enlargement, but really one step at a time. Maybe we'll see what we can do around Christmas. We must learn from what is happening abroad. We need to learn from Thanksgiving in Canada, where the third wave started. You don't want any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u110	Mrs. Diertens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u111	So that means that the way back and forth, like the scaling up and down, go along the same path.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u112	No. The roadmap runs from you from left to right. It goes from step 1, 2, 3 to 4. You can't go back through those steps. So if you're in 2, 3 or 4, you have to go all the way back to level 1. Only then can you reapply the package that is on level 1. Why is that? If you've gone through that roadmap, the number of hospital admissions is too high and the number of delayed surgeries is very high. A lot of people have been told that their surgery cannot continue. In addition, of course, you simply have to deal with the fact that the number of infectious people in the Netherlands is still very high: about 100,000. So 1 in 170 Dutch people are still contagious at the moment. That's why you can't say: we're going back through the steps. No, you have to go all the way back to level 1, so three I.C. shots and 1,200 infections a day. But what we do want to do is to see if you can't do something in a sensible way when you're on those ten ic-recordings a day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u113	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u114	Thank you. Because of these questions, I've completed this block. Let's give it a little perspective. The long-term perspective is that in the Netherlands we want to return to normal, the old normal. The old normal takes a few things. Of course, the best thing would be a vaccine as soon as possible. That's what De Jonge's gonna talk about. If necessary, while it is still rolling out, also testing on a much larger scale, so that it is possible to make more social activities possible. They all asked questions about what De Jonge is about to deal with. Finally, it is, of course, always possible that developments in the field of medicine are taking place so quickly that this can also help. That's for the longer term. The short-term perspective is that, strictly speaking, we have to wait in the roadmap until mid-January before you can do something. But we want to see if in mid-December you can make a few things possible, and then perhaps something around Christmas and New Year's Eve. That is, in terms of perspective. Unfortunately, it's not much prettier. I realize that's incredibly hard for a lot of people, but this is the reality. We're just dealing with too many infections and it's all still too fragile. Then there was the question of regional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u115	I think Mr Klaver, Mr Veldman and Mr Segers want to respond to the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u116	The whole point of perspective is that, because we are going to test very widely, we are going to get back as normal a society as possible. It's not gonna happen very soon. If you want to be back in level 1 in mid-January, but you still don't have that test capacity in order, you're going back up the escalation ladder very quickly, which will result in lockdowns again. So the perspective is we're gonna avoid that third lockdown. How does the Prime Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u117	What goes is of course our overall strategy anyway. This is to control the virus as much as possible in the interests of vulnerable and elderly people, and in the interests of care. This also requires insight into and insight into the virus. That's why you need that source and contact research. That can't really be good with the number of infections that are out there right now. Then I really need to get them back. In the meantime we can handle it much more than 1,200 a day because the GGDs have been greatly scaled up, but originally that number was 1,200 infections and above that it became more difficult. Luckily, we can go a little higher by now. Besides, of course, you have it tested. The test capacity is also in order for normal testing. Eventually, you don't want a test capacity to prevent a third wave... Yes, too, but that has been worked very hard and now anyone who has complaints can be tested very quickly. That's what you need for visibility and insight. But in addition, Hugo de Jonge and the Cabinet are looking at what more you can do with testing when it comes to quarantine and making activities possible. That's what he's gonna be talking about. That's part of your whole testing strategy. In order to avoid a third wave, it is important that you do all things at once, namely take sufficient measures. That is the most important thing at the level of vigilance. Then you must also ensure that the basic test capacity is in order. But I do not think that is the ambition of the Chamber or of Mr Klaver. I think our common ambition is that you can do a lot more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u118	This is the strategy of three months ago and it has not worked entirely. So we need something else. The perspective that we need to give the Netherlands is that temporary test society, I would add. This really means that from mid-January onwards you have to make sure that the Netherlands opens again. I think a lot of people are really willing to take very far-reaching measures, including total lockdowns, as long as they know there will be improvement. This improvement is only possible in the short term if you start testing on a large scale. That requires a different way of thinking. I don't belong to the Prime Minister. That worries me. We must use tests not to detect the virus but to re-open society. For that, you need to get things in order by mid-January. If you don't have that, a lockdown will remain in place to some extent. This has enormous economic and social consequences. That's why we need to get there as soon as possible. That must have been done by mid-January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u119	First of all, the second wave is not due to too little testing or too little BCO. The second wave is the result of an increase in the number of infections. This also has to do with the question of whether the number of measures you are taking is sufficient. That is why it is so important that you review and review that package of measures at that first level. In addition, you need that test and BCO capacity. It's happy now on a level that, from that classic way of thinking, it's going well, but you want to test a lot more. You want to be able to reduce quarantine time by testing. You want to test to see if you can make certain social activities possible again. All of these things; exactly as Mr Klaver says. That is exactly what Hugo de Jonge will go into in detail in the near future, which is also the subject of yesterday's letter. We are very ambitious. There are very big trials coming up to see how to use this also regionally in a much larger way, all as Mr Klaver means. But we must now first ensure that we go back to that first level and that the basic test capacity and the BCO capacity are such that at that time you are also able to keep the matter under control as well as possible, especially through the package of measures. A larger test capacity is then needed to ensure that social step by step can do more and that people who need to be quarantined have less time at home. First, it's from the BCO and from the app. Later on it may also be about people who travel here, you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'm going to be more specific with Minister De Jonge about testing policy, but I'm going to continue with this because this is about the core of your strategy. I am really concerned that the Prime Minister does not see that the testing and the source and contact research are indeed ways of preventing the emergence of infections. Of course, that's because people are in touch with each other. That might make that virus jump over, but you have two ways to prevent it. The first is that you try to avoid that as much as possible because there can't be concerts, you can't go to the catering industry, students don't have lectures anymore. That is one way, but the impact on society and the economy is enormous. Another way to do that is through testing policy. The price we pay for that is much lower. Why does it go wrong? Because we're all social beings. I don't blame anyone. I don't think anyone's had too many contacts on purpose. That is why we need to take that step very quickly towards a test society. I hope the Prime Minister understands that point. If you don't understand that, it's gonna go wrong again from January, and then it's culpable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u121	I think we're arguing about something we agree on...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u122	Good. Then I'm going to see Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u123	...that if you're on the first level, you need the basic test capacity to make sure you keep an eye on the virus and don't cloud it. Although it's not that the virus is getting worse because you're not testing enough. But it does help to keep an eye on it, and that's important. But it is the measures that achieve that. What Mr Klaver is saying is that you can look again at the measures if you are going to test more, so that things can be wider in society. Of course, that's exactly what we're looking at and what's in yesterday's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u125	We're all in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u126	Maybe the prime minister will come up, but he said he was at the end of the block of perspective. I asked him a question about how and when the experiments the catering industry has been working for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u127	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u128	You're gonna come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u129	Yes. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u130	We are about to discuss vaccination with the VWS Minister in greater detail, but I still have a very fundamental and important question for the Prime Minister about the strategy and what lies ahead. It's about testing on the one hand. Mr Klaver talked about a test society and the role that rapid tests can play in releasing society. But vaccination also plays a role in this. We hope that the vaccination rate will be sufficient, that people will be vaccinated and that will give us freedom back. Yet there is an ethical dilemma: to what extent do you encourage people to do so? Is it just an encouragement? Or is there gonna be some kind of urge? That was the subject of an interrupting debate for a moment. Apart from the fact that this may be counterproductive to the willingness to have you vaccinated, there is also a very fundamental point. I can't wait to see how the Prime Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u131	That is what Mr Segers has clearly described in his term. The cabinet won't be for coercion. But you can also indirectly nudge, stimulate people. In the first term there was a debate on this with the VVD among others. That really is a medical-ethical issue. That's what we're considering right now. I cannot now give a congruent answer; we are considering this. We're looking at the whole vaccination strategy. That is also one of the elements that we will have to look at. There may be a time when half of the Netherlands has been vaccinated. That's not enough for group immunity. What do you do? What does that mean for those who have not been vaccinated? And how do you deal with that medically-ethical? That is indeed a very fundamental issue. That really requires good thinking and advice, and that is what is happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u132	But I still want to get an orientation. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that encouraging or perhaps having an urge to be tested is less drastic than an urge to be vaccinated? In other words: shouldn't you be very reluctant with the latter and just encourage people? Shouldn't that always be a free choice of people? The first is less intrusive, so perhaps we could go a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u133	About vaccination: we are not for mandatory vaccination. But there was a moment's discussion, Mr Segers, in his first term, also referred to the question of how to deal at some point with the fact that a lot of people have been vaccinated and some have not yet been vaccinated. What does that mean for those who have not yet been vaccinated and for access to certain occasions? That is a very fundamental ethical issue. That is not an issue that we can resolve quickly. I do think that's very complicated. The VVD, Mr Segers and others referred to this. We really need to think about this in the coming weeks, and we need to talk about it more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u134	Finally, Madam President. I agree with the Prime Minister. It is true that we need to talk about this for a longer time. When it comes to vaccination, I would be very reluctant. I would greatly encourage people to be vaccinated, but I would be reluctant in any form of urge. Perhaps it would be a good idea to encourage ourselves into this ethical reflection and to seek advice elsewhere. I am also considering a motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. There are a few more questions about the hospitality...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr Wilders also had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u137	The Prime Minister's talking about perspective. I understand that there are still two ministers after him talking about care, but I would also like to hear from the Prime Minister about all those people who have been sick at home this year, who are often still sick, and who have not been able to get care because, as the Prime Minister knows, 1 million people have not been referred by the GP to the specialist because of corona. I have already asked my colleague from the CDA in his term: what is the perspective that you are offering to those people that they get their graduated care from knee surgery to kidney transplantation, from cataract surgery to cancer.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u138	This is a very important question, which also touches on the lessons you need to draw from the first wave. You no longer want regular care to virtually come to a complete standstill, as happened then. Only car accidents, acute appendicitis, heart attacks were still treated, but otherwise it was terribly complicated. We said, "We don't want that in that second wave." That is also why Tamara van Ark, the Minister for Medical Care, has presented the Temporary Policy Framework Guarantee acute care. It contains all the measures to ensure that patients are guaranteed the same care throughout the country and that there is no arbitrariness. That policy framework has been drawn up in conjunction with the Federation of Medical Specialists. Doctors have to make sharp choices based on the urgency of the care question. By doing so, you guarantee that covid care, where someone sometimes literally threatens to choke, always prevails. But acute care and critical planned care must always be able to continue. Scale down and delay should only be allowed in the case of regular scheduled care which does not result in permanent health damage and/or loss of life years. That's not a nice message. It can still cause enormous inconvenience; I agree with Mr Wilders. I think we all feel very sorry for people who do. It may cause discomfort and pain, but you have to make that choice to at least ensure that that care continues that if it does not continue would lead to permanent health damage and/or loss of life years. It is also important for people who have health problems to know that I said that yesterday and Mrs Sazias and others always asked for it to contact the general practitioner. They shouldn't think: it's too unsafe or too busy there. If they're afraid it's unsafe, they can organize the consultation in such a way that it's safe, but they should always contact the GP. That's really a lesson we learned from the first wave. It still means that some interventions do not go ahead, but on the basis of these criteria. That's really the lesson we learned from the first wave. But Mr Wilders is right: not all concern can continue. I think about 30% to 40% has been scaled down, but fortunately that is much less than we had to do in the first wave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u139	It's in the papers and during the briefing it's been told that 30,000 people who get a referral from the general practitioner every week, because it's so serious what they have that they have to go to the specialist, can't go. I understand your intentions, but it's not working. You'll just sit at home and think: now we're hearing it from the Prime Minister, because I'm sick, I need a kidney, I have cancer or something else, and I'm still waiting... Again, with me the mailbox is full of messages from people complaining about it. I understand that very well, and I think the Prime Minister understands that very well. Those people are asking when they're getting a call. It is not about the next crisis, it is also very important, but it is a call that they are now being helped. There are now hundreds of thousands of people at home whose care has been scaled down. A total of a million people this year. When do they get a call to get their care back? That's the question I have. I asked how many lives this cost in my first term. If the Prime Minister doesn't know, another minister will have to answer. A million people didn't get their care. How many lives did that cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u140	Minister Van Ark will go into the latter in a moment. Let me return to Wilders' main question. At the moment, about 30% to 40% of health care is still going on, and the percentage was higher, because hospitals are taxed, because doctors, nurses, patient transporters, cleaners, everyone who works there, are working the snot in front of the eyes to manage this second wave. I think I speak on behalf of all of us when I express the greatest possible respect for the people working on it. The lesson of the first wave is that I have to repeat this once again, because there is the call to people who have complaints behind that scaling down and delay should only be allowed if this does not lead to lasting health damage and/or loss of life years. Again, it is important that people actually check in and that they do contact the general practitioner in case of complaints and do not think he is too busy. Only in this way can we look at what is possible here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u141	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u142	I can't get an answer to my question. Now it looks like I'm using my third interruption. I'm just telling the Prime Minister that 30,000 people go to the GP a week. It's not like 30,000 people a week don't go to the specialist. They go to the doctor, they do as you say, but they are not referred. I would nevertheless like to answer the question about those 30,000 people, a million in the last year. What's going on? A second point, Madam President, and perhaps the Prime Minister may have some time to think about it, concerns Mr Heerma's and me's motion for a resolution on healthcare reserves. We are very pleased about this. What you should actually have in care in a next crisis, if you don't want the care to be scaled down again, is besides those care reserves also a separate column, let me put it this way, of equipment, beds and hospitals. Opening up the hospitals that are closed is, I think, the first step. Then you will have, when another crisis comes, not only the people, the care reserves........................................................................................................................................................ Then you offer people perspective. In addition to using the healthcare reserves, if you also create a separate column where people who have corona or another virus can go in a subsequent crisis, the regular care will continue. That's offering perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u143	Sure. Agreed. But that's not something you can organize in the short term. I very much agree with Mr Wilders. We're working on the national reserve care providers. There's a letter written about that. We are also currently consulting with the Extra ZorgSamen foundation. That's a foundation we're talking to. They are one of the initiators of Extra hands for care. They have also worked on this in the last spring. So that is being worked on in the short term, but it will only have a real impact on the slightly longer term. It's really a bigger operation. Of course, that includes the stuff and the beds. I fully agree with Mr Wilders. At that first point about the 30,000 people Tamara van Ark will be going into shortly. To those who are now following this debate, I really want to take this opportunity to make use of Mr Wilders' interruption to say: if you have complaints, do not think that the general practitioner is too busy. Please report, because there have been appointments made. Yes, there is less possible in hospitals, but at present 60% to 70% of normal hospital care can continue. This was rather a lower percentage; that is now higher. It's much higher than during the first wave anyway. So report to the GP. Then, based on medical considerations, it will be considered whether you can now be included in the care that is needed, especially if there is a risk of health damage or the loss of life years. We, my colleagues in the cabinet, are indeed talking to, for example, the catering industry. We are also in conversation with the event industry to see how we can organize it so that as many things as possible can be done again, especially when we are back on the first level with three ic-recordings per day, mid-January or later in January, but we hope as soon as possible. Economic Affairs and Justice and Security do this together with representatives of the hospitality and business. I myself had a good conversation with Koninklijke Horeca Nederland last week and now I also have SMS-contact with them to speed that up; I'm going to answer his last text, should he listen. We want to make sure that we can do as much as we can. We do this with VNO-NCW and with SME-Netherlands. A field lab for the catering industry is one of the ideas discussed. It is true that, in order to really do that and run these kinds of experiments, we need to be a lot further back in the incidence of virus spread. We should actually be back on level one. That is all being prepared now, and it is being worked very hard. As a result, there was also a question from Mr Heerma. He says: if a company is in financial trouble, it can also be good for people who want something wrong, people who have undermining activities. Of course, you are primarily trying to get companies through the crisis as well as possible with the support measures. There are companies that, despite these measures, are in a very difficult situation, and are in a very difficult situation anyway. That is why Minister Grapperhaus of Justice and Security is in talks with business, as well as with the various public partners, to jointly consider how entrepreneurs can be made aware of the risks of falling victim to wrong investors and also how to keep them resilient. This is done with a wide range of means, including the National Platform Crime Control. In particular, it is also being built with the catering industry to keep catering entrepreneurs resilient. Mr Heerma spoke specifically about gyms and I will ask him to take a look at them in particular. I understood that the emphasis was mainly on the catering industry, but we are certainly going to involve it when there are signals about it. This is part of a very wide range of activities to ensure that these types of companies do not end up in a hemp plantation or that other undermining activities can take place there. Whether a benevolent entrepreneur thinks with the water on his lips that he should do so or doesn't know at all that this is threatening, because he or she is being tricked so that it isn't obvious in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u144	Do you have anything else at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u145	Shall I finish this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u146	Yeah, I would.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u147	Let's see. There are a few more detailed questions. The question of D66 was whether you could not identify a region to experiment and then expand on a larger scale, and include lifestyle support. The Minister for Health is indeed planning to experiment with large-scale testing in certain regions. I just mentioned it in a comment. He'll be back to that in a minute. The goal is to test extensively and frequently in the Netherlands from March next year, where everyone can be tested once a month on average. Then, of course, there is also a link with lifestyle support. A healthy lifestyle can strengthen the immune system and improve everyone's health and resistance within a few weeks. That'll help you a lot in the fight against the corona virus. Of course, in the basic package there are opportunities for overweight people to use combined lifestyle interventions, coaching sustainable behavioural changes. In this context, there was another question about football, namely about the parents around the football field. They just shouldn't. You don't want all these moves. When we say "stay away as a spectator," we of course say: then don't go outside the fence and click with each other. I repeat that here again. That's not the point. It is really unwise to stand in the parking lot together group forms. Then you could have done it around the field. But it shouldn't be around the field, because that leads to more movements and more traffic. We need to reduce the number of infections. Mr President, all this in response to most of the questions concerning measures and the roadmap. I'll have a few more questions about the schools and the Caribbean and I'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u148	First Mr Van Haga, then Mr Pieter Heerma and Mrs Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u149	This is, of course, a sad avalanche of things that we all no longer like. I would like to return to the comments made by the Prime Minister on the catering industry. He had a conversation with Koninklijke Horeca Nederland. That's very positive. He said there was perspective and something was done to field labs. I really don't think that's a perspective at all. 50% of the catering industry is threatening to go on the bottle soon. Is this really the only perspective outlined?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u150	The catering industry is, of course, supported by the support packages. This is very important to ensure that healthy catering companies can go through this terrible crisis. It particularly touches them in a tremendous way. They drove massively against a block, first in March and now again in October. That is perfectly clear, and we all think that I do, and I think everyone is horrible. But the virus is there and shutting down the catering industry and so many other measures we're taking are now needed to make sure we get the virus underneath. What you want to do next, whether it's about events or catering, is to see how, when we get that virus under control, you can make sure that even smarter those restaurants and events give you a little space again, so that it doesn't lead to a new rise in the number of infections. Those conversations are going on. It's terribly important to see what might be possible in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u151	I do not know if the Prime Minister himself has ever worked in the catering industry or if he has had anything to do with the catering industry, apart from the fact that he regularly indicates that he likes to visit the catering industry, which is of course nice. This perspective is totally inadequate. The hospitality industry, despite the support measures, is just getting really hard on the bottle. If you consider that 2.6% of the infections have occurred in the catering industry, that so little is done for the catering industry and that this is the perspective, then I wonder why it has not been possible in the past eight months to come up with something of a plan forward. This can be done, for example, with quick tests or with better ventilation. At least the catering industry can survive. It can't be like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u152	At all partial lockdowns in Europe, the catering industry is closed. Why did that happen? Not because mistakes are necessarily made there, not at all. On average, in the hospitality industry, people work very hard and do their best to fight the virus. However, they are places where people go and come together, which simply increases the risk of contamination, especially in combination with alcohol. This seems to be not so bad in the statistics, but a lot of infections take place at home of course. That's not because people infect each other at home, but because someone's taking the virus home. That's not what you see in the statistics. It's not for nothing that everywhere where partial lockdowns are, the hospitality industry gets hit so hard. Unfortunately, I hate it too. But those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u153	Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u154	I think it's really weird. Looks like the statistics contradict it? No, the statistics are the statistics. 2.6% of the infections took place in the catering industry. That's very little. The catering industry has done an incredible amount of work and invested incredibly much to get it done. Then it is particularly bitter that the hospitality industry is so badly hit by this cabinet. I'm gonna close with that, because I don't think we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u155	It is true that those percentages were not so high when the catering industry was open. Mr Van Haga is right about that. The point is that when infections occur, they are often very large clusters. It often involves a lot of people who are infected. The second is that this percentage may be low, but if you start looking at where the virus was originally collected, before people infect each other at home, it is often in places such as sports clubs, group sports and in the restaurants where people in large groups have been together. Of course, that is inevitable, because it is also the goal of the catering industry that you are cozy together. With those field labs and those tests, you're trying to see if, when the number of infections is much lower, you're going to be able to give the hospitality industry some room in a responsible way again, as long as that virus is among us. That's what we all want. Once again, it is not for nothing that everywhere in Europe where there are partial lockdowns, it is precisely the catering industry that is being closed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u156	Would you mind taking the other microphone? Mr Pieter Heerma and then Mrs Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u157	Of course, the Prime Minister was quite right to say that the first commitment is to provide adequate support for companies so that they do not give in to criminals. At the same time, you can see the signs in the hospitality industry that criminals strike the moment someone's weakest. I have also heard concerns about sports clubs and gyms, because that is where it can happen. I believe that the Prime Minister has indicated that extra efforts are being made by the cabinet. Is that the regular undermining bet or is there an extra bet specifically focused on corona? I can imagine that public actions or information campaigns to make entrepreneurs and associations more resilient in times of crisis can also provoke resistance. Therefore, my question is whether that awareness and resilience are also about actively offering help, how you deal with it when you're approached, whether you can call a phone number for advice, that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u158	A phone number, I'm afraid to say. I should check it out. However, entrepreneurs are made aware of the risks of becoming victims of wrong investors. They are given an action perspective to increase their resilience. This is done through campaigns and the provision of various tools, such as a communication toolkit for municipalities, which also have a role in this. I mentioned the NPC, the National Platform Crime Control. There it is agreed to hang out with the catering industry, especially to keep the catering entrepreneurs resilient. This autumn, a campaign on social media was launched to warn catering entrepreneurs about wrong investors. On the basis of the experience within the catering industry, it is being examined for which other vulnerable sectors, perhaps the gyms, I will at least pass on that signal, and a campaign can be launched this autumn. Of course, Meld Crime Anonymous is running a campaign to warn property tenants of criminal abuse and, finally, there are also informative activities in agricultural areas, in order to raise awareness and resilience there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u159	In my opinion, these are all good things that happen, but just the last piece, an information campaign on social media to warn people about wrong investors, can also lead to a lot of resistance and anger when the water is on your lips. My question was really specific whether, apart from information campaigns via social media or otherwise, which I am not opposed to, there will also be an active auxiliary body.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u160	I admit that Mr Grapperhaus will come up with a letter on this, because I do not know exactly. Maybe it's okay if he answers that part of the questions just as precisely in a short but clear letter. And apparently that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u161	Good. Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u162	First of all, we are very pleased with all the initiatives that are being taken in the field of vaccination and testing. It's nice that we're going to be tested massively. Only it's, a little charged, a little one-dimensional. What could be a next level for me is a field lab in which the movements between the different measures that are taken are tested in a region or in a city, where you make a kind of experiment of the underlying movements both to the theatre and to the gym as well as to the ordinary school. From that you can learn how to protect the vulnerable. You can also get from that "society lab" information that we can continue with in the future, because this is not regulated for the vaccination rate at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u163	For the time being, as long as the vaccination rate is not there and the testing combined with vaccination doesn't make everything possible, we will really need a while, you have to keep a distance of 1.5 meters, you have to wash your hands, you still have to try to do it all safely in social contact. I'll give it to the people working on those field labs. I understand that Mrs Diertens says: okay, you can do it isolated for the catering industry or for the events, but people have to go there, and one of the problems in spreading the virus is that movement too, so can't those movements be part of that? I cannot see that now, but at least I will give that thought to colleagues in the cabinet, Mr Koolmees and Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u164	I'd like to go back to the catering business. I was just chewing on what the attorney-president said. I can very well imagine him saying that the wider re-scaling of the current restrictions will only be possible if the number of infections has been significantly reduced. My question in the first term was about the experiments, which Koninklijke Horeca Nederland worked together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, to experiment in 25 places, bearing in mind also the OMT advice of a few weeks ago to see if that might be differentiated within the hospitality industry. That's different from the field labs. What is the image of the cabinet? I think the experiments are ready and they have been thought through, but they are still waiting for the moment when they can begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u165	Yeah, but you can't really do that until the number of infections is really lower. The number is still too high. There's too much risk of doing that right now. But preparing it is very important. I admit that in the next progress letter, in two or three weeks' time, we will also take a very precise picture of these experiments. Or we put that in the letter from the cabinet, from the troika, from Wiebes, Koolmees and Hoekstra, about the arrangement, if that letter comes sooner. But otherwise in the next progress letter. Let me make a note that we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u166	I think the officials are listening, you don't have to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u167	Yeah, that's true. But I had the feeling I had to keep a list of my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u168	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u169	Okay, then we're almost at the end. I have a few more questions. One was about education. The Chamber was informed on 10 November and 16 November about the fight against and the prevention of learning disadvantages and the responsible opening up of schools. I will not read the list I have before me; the Chamber knows it. We're working together on that. It is not possible to waive the 1.5 metres in higher education, because there is a great risk of infection. However, there can be a lot in higher education. I sometimes think that maybe more can happen than sometimes happens now. But that of course calls for everything to be organized very precisely. Then the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. On the basis of the RIVM opinions, we take decisions on this. RIVM recently looked at Curaçao. The number of infections is on, but they're taking the right measures. At the moment, therefore, there is no reason to put the advice on orange. Curaçao is yellow and it remains yellow. Aruba is orange, but probably goes fast to yellow. Saint Martin is orange and remains orange. Bonaire is yellow and remains yellow. Again, RIVM is looking at it. We're going to simplify the system a little bit and the intention is that VWS will finally take the decisions on the basis of those RIVM opinions. Then there were a few questions about arguing in the cabinet, but we have already answered them through the interruptions. So I guess I'll be there then... No, I don't. I see Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u170	But you've already answered all the questions that have been asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u171	Yeah, I answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u172	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u173	Sure, my question has been answered. I just have an extra question about it. In the letter that came last night, it said that there would be some sort of review framework for Curaçao and Aruba. I'm just wondering if you could give me a little more information on what that review framework is. I continue to find it worrying that the number of tickets booked by Dutch people to go that way is increasing. The infections there are also increasing. You could say that's connected to each other after all. So I'm still looking for what we're going to do to prevent us from getting into a situation where we don't want to go at all, because a lot of Dutch people are going there. What are we going to do extra if we don't go to an urgent negative travel advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u174	RIVM has designed a scaling system for the three islands, in line with how we work in the European Netherlands. In addition to the number of infections, we also look at source and contact research and the pressure on local care. On this basis, RIVM has said: Curaçao is worrying in itself, with an incidence of now 197 per 100,000 and a positive test result of about 13% that is similar to the Netherlands............................................................................................................................................................................... RIVM will review this very regularly. So we are actually looking at what we also look at in the Netherlands: source and contact research, the pressure on local care and the number of infections. On that basis, they have said that it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u175	Thank you. At least that gives some clarity. However, I still think it would be a good idea to continue to argue that we should still not fly there together. The negative travel advice also applies here. We say of all countries that we should not fly there, but in the Netherlands we say that you can go there. Then you know that a lot of Dutch people still fly there. Even if a country is yellow, I do not think that is desirable in this situation. So I'm still looking for a way to tell people that they shouldn't go there, even though it's code yellow. We shouldn't seduce them either. How do we find the bandwidth to not let people all book tickets that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u176	We have chosen to say: stay in the Netherlands. And the Netherlands is also the Kingdom. The Netherlands is also Curaçao, Aruba, Sint-Maarten, Sint Eustatius, Saba and Bonaire. That's how we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u177	Thank you. We're gonna wait until the chair is cleaned and then we're gonna go to the Secretary of State at VWS. I see the Minister of VWS running away. Are you coming back? Yeah, he'll be back. Fine. Then we'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u178	I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of questions have been asked about testing. I'd like to answer it together in a block. Furthermore, a serious number of questions have been asked about vaccination. I'd like to answer that in a block. Then a number of questions have been asked that can be summarised under the block of vulnerable people. These questions concern, among other things, the nursing homes. And then, of course, traditionally the block of varia. I'll start with the test questions. There we see huge developments, both in building test capacity that is immediately available, and in the steps we are taking towards a future, in which we will test even more massively and intensively. I think it is good to highlight, in addition to saying where we want to go, how incredibly much work has been done in creating the current test capacity. There is a lot more capacity than is currently used on a daily basis. This offers new opportunities to add new groups to the test policy. To date, most people with complaints have been tested, but from 1 December we will also test the people without complaints who use the app and who come out of the source and contact research. From mid-January onwards, the people who come back from holiday will be added. That happens in the same way, namely by testing on day five. If you then test negative, the quarantine can stop immediately. I think this is a huge step forward, also in increasing the willingness to test. I would like to go there, in response to Mr Veldman's questions. In fact, many groups have put variations to that question. Now we're testing from an epidemiological perspective in particular. Shouldn't you go much further towards an economic look, or rather a community look? This is not only about tracing the people who are sick and making them quarantined, but also about keeping things open and keeping society going as much as possible. I very much agree with that. We're actually in the middle of that switch. We're in the middle of changing from one phase to another. That also requires something of the way in which we shape our test policy. Now we ask people who have complaints to go to a lot of trouble to get tested, then not to like anything anymore. They are no longer allowed to go to work or outside. If you're sick and you're getting tested, you risk staying home. You should actually go to a very low threshold. People should be tempted to be tested because they then like something else. That's the perfect match for the switch. But we are far from there, not in the number of tests and not in the willingness to test that is necessary and appropriate. As Mr Veldman said, we are indeed working on a plan. I've staged this plan as follows. In January, I would like to move to two municipalities in the municipalities of the Netherlands to try to test the large-scale testing in practice. We are looking at how we can shape this, also in terms of decrease. I would prefer to do this in February in a region. Then I'd like to do this all over the country. The sums we make now assume that people will be tested at least once a month. This sum then amounts to about 350,000 tests per day and about 10.5 million tests per month. That's a lot. We can partly freeze that in the test streets, because the test streets are greatly expanded, as we speak. We will soon be able to run a large capacity, both on the PCR and on different variants of rapid tests. But it's still a threshold to go there. So we will also have to have it on another side, including in terms of reduction potential. We're working with employers on a plan to get there. I expect a lot of what employers could do. Fortunately, employers are prepared to do so. There is a lot of energy to set up test streets as an employer. In addition, there is a third track. That is still a bit in its infancy, because the technique is not that advanced. But I'm sure it won't be long now. That is: self-deduction or guided self-deduction. That too could make huge masses. Along those three tracks we are working on greatly increasing capacity. I believe that we need to move towards more large-scale but large-scale, because that puts the real sieve in society to take out the positive cases and to open up society as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr Veldman and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u181	I fully agree with what the Minister says and with the route he is planning. It all fits in with the detection of infections. If it succeeds in terms of capacity in Slovakia, they have done the whole population, Austria is considering doing so, and the United Kingdom is doing so at urban level, I fully agree. It all fits in with the detection of contagion. But in my term, I was talking about eliminating infections. Non-medical testing I called it that in my term; the Minister called it economic testing........................................................................................................................................................................................ Events are perhaps the most catchy. In addition, you can best imagine that, because you have a closed area and you want to go on it, but people are trying to exclude infected people coming in. That means that we can redesign our society and make it function as we were used to before corona. That's the route I'm looking for. Is anyone thinking about filling out that route? 'Cause that's asking a lot of questions. I refer not only to the testing capacity, but also to how you organise it, how you facilitate entrepreneurs and the event industry to do so. Because then you don't have a regular test street. Then you have to go to a mobile test street or other facilities. Is the cabinet thinking about this with VNO, the business community and the event industry? I mean that we may be ready when we have the capacity and those other types of tests are being validated, so I understood in the technical briefing this morning. Can it go wild if it is clear in January that the tests have been validated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u182	Yes. What we're doing is that fits a bit in the same itinerary. Especially in the event industry we have developed a number of field labs in which you could do exactly that. The most promising thing about this is either the PCR test. I'm talking about its rapid execution, so the LAMP test; we know that it's reliable.... or the breath test. It's being validated right now. That could be a very promising option, because it is rather strong on negative results. False positive is a pity, but false negative is just dangerous. False positive could be a shame because you're sitting on the couch for nothing, but false negative could be dangerous if you go in at an event and then organise a spread event on your own. That is not the intention, of course. So we have to rule that out. That's why the field labs were set up. As the Prime Minister has just said, they fit in with the situation in which the risks of infection are much lower. Then we can start with that. Then we're gonna start with that, too. But they do match another look at testing. It is not so much about epidemiological testing, but rather about testing from a social or economic point of view, namely to keep things going. If you have fast tests that are strong in pronouncing a reliable negative result, then that's when you can start doing this type of application. There is plenty of validation and plenty of gas to get it done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u183	I'll give you the floor in a minute, Mr. Veldman. I'm curious, Minister. You were in the process of testing the component. Were you all done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u184	No, a lot of questions have been asked about testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u185	However, I would suggest that the Minister should answer the questions that were asked about tests at the beginning. Then you will have the opportunity to ask about it. You look so angry at me, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u186	I'm not angry at all, Mr. Chairman. Maybe we can finish this round on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u187	Well, Mr. Clover's got another round, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u188	Maybe it's about the same thing. Who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u189	I just want it to be a little orderly. The Minister has about four topics. The subject testing has just begun. So you will really have the opportunity, and so will Mr Klaver. I'd like to ask the Minister to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u190	Fine. Then I'll try to get through it quickly. A lot of questions have been asked, but I'll try to do it quickly. Mr. Klaver asked: can we start with a test of population testing? That's exactly what we're gonna do. That's what we're gonna do in January, in two municipalities. I hope that it can then be done in two regions and then throughout the country. Why don't I do that before January? Because we have to prepare for that. Precisely because we want to test that large scale with everything we have prepared, I do not want to do anything half-December, but I want to do something solid in January. It just takes preparation time to get that done in a good way, because it also requires a lot of reduction potential. Is everything being done to maximize the capacity to buy? The answer is yes. There are two bottlenecks. The first bottleneck is the applicability in a particular setting. That is fully validated. That's just technology, science and the speed with which that innovation progresses. There is no brake on that, but it always costs a good validation before you can actually use tests in a certain setting. The second bottleneck, and that's the real bottleneck, is the reduction potential. Thousands of people are recruited, trained, and also provided from the members of VNO-NCW to make the capacity to decrease as much as possible. But my point is that, if you really want it to be much more intensive than where we set the bar in March, because that is not a limit for me, which requires an even more intensive reduction. In any case, this will be done through the reduction as we organise it, as well as through the reduction through employers. But I think that ultimately self-reduction will give the most intensity, including in the reduction potential. So it's really everything at the same time to ensure sufficient capacity. In the case of Slovakia, for example, a lockdown has been requested by a number of political groups. I think that putting a solid sieve in society and filtering out the positive results can mean that you can do so with fewer measures. So it is an important way to keep society and the economy open. That's absolutely true. Eventually, I'm not gonna predict what we could all avoid by doing things, because you're so dependent on so many things. You depend on people's willingness to test, on the way people behave. But I think that the very intensive use of tests, large-scale and frequent, can make sure that you can do so with less measures and that you can prevent the rate of infection from increasing too much. What the exact lessons are going to be in Slovakia is, of course, not known at the moment, for which it has been too recently. Mr Veldman asks a question about the direction of testing. Who's in charge? That is me, and on my behalf, the chairman of the National Coordination Structure Test capacity. You saw it this morning in a technical briefing, it is Mr André van der Zande. What is the situation with regard to the use of the breath test, Mr Heerma asks. I have great expectations of that. There is currently a validation study in progress. There is now also a second manufacturer of a breath test. If that validation study goes well, we hope to be able to use that breath test in December. So that's soon. In parallel to that validation study, all preparations are made, both in the field of procurement and in the field of practical roll-out. There is already a series of breath tests available and there are also a lot of breath tests in preparation. I'm also looking at how we can further scale up production, so that we can really deploy those tests as soon as possible. Mrs Diertjes says that the number of reduced tests is falling as capacity increases. How is that even possible? I think the good reason for this is that the level of contamination is also falling. There are fewer people with corona-related symptoms, both the decrease in the decrease as well as the decrease in the positive rate, the percentage of positives. But I also say that I am quite sure that not all people with complaints will be tested. I also say that I am quite sure that we could actually test a much larger part of society. At least we have room again to add new target groups to the test policy. We're gonna do that anyway. But I am sorry that we have so much capacity ready and actually only half of it is being used at the moment. I would like to see more use made of it. Of course, we continue to call for this. And we're switching on new groups so that we can use the maximum capacity we have. Then education. Mrs Diertjes, as well as Mr Klaver, asked whether you could not do much more with, for example, quick tests in education. The answer is that in that second track we are going to have to go to the health care institutions anyway. I will come back to Mrs Marijnissen who are making rapid tests available as well as a whole manual on how to set up your own test street, because that is actually quite something to do with those antigen tests. I want educational institutions to be able to use them themselves: even closer to home, even easier, even more easily. That's how we want to make it available. Not only to healthcare institutions and educational institutions, but also to business. The business window will be open as well in the first week of December. The health office is already open. They can just order their stuff at the LCH. In the first week of December, the whole manual will be included for how they could use it. So it's definitely available. Those quick tests are already available for care. Actually, they can use them. I would like to make some important comments about this in the direction of Mrs Marijnissen, and they relate to its applicability. The OMT has advised you to do a PCR reconfirmation, especially since working with vulnerable people is not so suitable for the residents anyway, it should be very sure that a negative result is really a negative result. They are relatively reliable, but relative is not good enough for the nursing homes, for example. So that's where a confirmation is really expected, a confirmation, with a PCR test. When are we going to test all travellers who enter by air, by road or by train, Mrs Diertje asks. We really want to start with this as soon as possible, but we do need a legislative amendment to do so and it will take some time. To be honest, I expect that we can start with third-country nationals rather soon, because that does not require any legislative change. They're people from outside the Union. People within the Union do need a legislative change, and that will take some time. Meanwhile, the Minister of IenW is trying to make agreements with airlines. As soon as we know anything about it, we will inform you about it. What we want to do anyway is test the people who come in on day five by mid-January, after which that quarantine can be terminated. I think that is also a very important way of preventing the introduction of the virus from abroad. Mr Asscher asked how BCO would be able to contribute more to the prevention of contamination in the near future. Well, a lot. What the GGDs have done in terms of scaling up is quite impressive. Almost 6,000 people have been recruited and by the end of December they are almost 7,000 people. They can do a huge load of BCOs with each other: 3,400 full BCOs. Then you're actually a long way in risk level 2. So risk level 1 and 2 should actually be able to be almost fully covered with full BCOs. From risk-driven BCOs, they can do about 8,000 of the more limited BCOs about 13,000 and even 25,000 of the very limited. At 25,000 infections a day, you shouldn't want to go anywhere near it anyway. This means that we have a large army to be able to expect from the BCO the inhibiting effects that we actually expect from the BCO. Then the commercial testing. Is there going to be a difference between people who can and can't afford that? Well, no. Fortunately, we now have a huge throughput at the GGD's. That's where you can go now with an average of 8.8 hours. That's a third of what the norm time is, so that goes very fast and that only gets faster when the volumes there increase. So we make it very low-threshold and so the tests are really accessible to everyone. The SGP asks what development we are starting together with the test society and whether we should really want to do so. To be honest, I think we're so eager to make more things possible that testing is really going to help us. You always have to watch for obligations and stuff. You shouldn't want that. But a society in which we test a lot more is what we absolutely must want, I think. Then there are the concerns that Dutch people have about the preservation of DNA. I spoke to Mr Kuzu about this last time. I explained this in detail in the letter. Human DNA data is not stored by laboratories. Negative tests are destroyed after a few days. Positive tests can be stored for up to three months in order to retest. The laboratories use the test material to investigate how the virus spreads. Anonymised material can be used by other researchers for scientific research. GGD test streets and laboratories always operate under legal regulations laid down in the Wpg, in the WGBO and the GDPR. In addition, André van der Zande explained this morning in the technical briefing we will also provide more information about what is happening. The provision of information to citizens can indeed be improved. We'll bet on that. Mrs Sazias wants to know if the Minister can indicate whether commercial tests are now better in view. The answer is: yes, they are getting better and better in the picture. There is an obligation for commercial test streets to pass positive results to the GDD, because it is an A disease. There's a reporting obligation. There is an obligation to consider tests as a medical act and thus also to place them under medical supervision. The IGJ will see to that. It is also apparent from the RIVM figures that around 20% of the positive reports do not come from the GGD. So these are both hospitals and commercial test streets. GGDs also indicate that they are getting ever more and ever better information from commercial providers. We have also simplified the notifications by the IT adjustments made by the GGD in recent times. The IGJ supervises the test streets and the reporting obligation, and also acts as a enforcement force if necessary to keep the munnies out of the door. Then the reliability of the PCR tests. That's the final test question, Chairman. I understand that you want to make haste, but I also need to answer a little of the questions as they have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u191	No, not at all. I see the questions of MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u192	I'm trying to answer that, Mr. Chairman. Van Haga asks about the reliability of the PCR tests and whether he can get an answer to the questions about increased cycles and the targets of the PCR test. During the previous debate, I promised you that the answers will come to the questions you asked me and to Mr Van Dissel about the cycles in relation to the PCR tests. You also questioned Mr Van Dissel about this this morning. I have also promised you that I will use RIVM to check whether the information on PCR tests and their reliability is accurate and to inform you about them. The RIVM has set up a special page where information is given about the different types of tests. The PCR test and its reliability are discussed in more detail. Your questions about the number of cycles will also be answered there. I therefore assume that we do not need to go into this debate further in terms of technology. Then I'd have questions about quarantine, but that's really a corner of testing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u193	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u194	So let's give it a rest, Mr. Chairman, for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u195	I've got a whole list. I'll write down your name, Mr. Van Haga. I'm going to see Mr. Veldman first. This is a specific issue. So the questions really have to be concrete and brief. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u196	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to move on where we left off. The Minister outlines what I also put into my term, more economic testing, but then he sticks to the test route map as he presented it. In my opinion, it is entirely based on the detection of infections, while more economic testing is about excluding them. Of course, someone can slip through it, but if we want to open society again and therefore want activities and events again, then it's about excluding from it. When I ask who is actually in charge, the Minister says: I, as Minister of Health. The question is whether, in the case of economic tests, if it is not about detecting contamination, the Minister of Health should also be the director, because it is a very different objective in terms of testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u197	Yes, but these objectives are very much in line with each other. What's the best thing for the economy? Keeping the extent to which the virus is present in society as low as possible. If we decorate the testing in such a way that you, as it were, organize a fishing net through society and thus can keep positive cases on the couch and well support them in quarantine to ensure that the rest can go through, then you do something great for the economy and something great for public health. So it's not a contradiction. It's an extension of each other. That's one. Two. If Mr Veldman means that you can not only put that sieve in society, but can also test it in an event-oriented way so that you only let people in with a negative test result, then the answer is: you have to do both. It's not one thing or the other. You have to do both. We are also working hard on that way of testing, with VNO among other things, to see if we can do that, because we believe in both. Eventually it is about as intensive testing as possible, so these variants are both necessary. In addition, self-testing is incredibly important. Suppose you're really months away from testing yourself every morning, and then you stick to a positive result, then that's the best brake on the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u198	Sure. I fully agree with the latter and with the rest of what the Minister says. Only in my opinion he still mixes two tracks. Of course, one doesn't replace the other. Of course, testing remains focused on detecting an infection and leads to a reduction in the number of infections, in addition to all the measures you apply. Only we want to relax with these measures, if we can, so that we can live as normal as possible. That includes your test to rule out, to rule out an infected person entering an open area or a closed area. That's another form of testing with a different purpose. This also requires a different organisation and approach. As long as the Minister is stuck with the approach in track 2, where employers are leading, we are not on the same track. Because it is a different type of test target and therefore test strategy and thus test approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u199	I do not know whether we really have a big difference of opinion or whether we are actually just agreeing, but at the moment we are in other words saying to each other. Look, what we need is high-frequency and intensive testing. We need to get there as soon as possible and as much as possible. Next, Mr Veldman rightly says that you are serving not only the purpose of combating the epidemic but also of keeping the economy and society open. I very much agree with him. Next, Mr Veldman says that this really requires a different way of reducing. I very much agree with him. I certainly don't think you can organize everything from the VWS ministry. On the contrary, I am quite conscious of the fact that we need employers very much to get those huge volumes. Mr Veldman puts a line under a particular variant because it is important, namely that you should also be able to prevent people coming in who are infected, that you should, in particular, be on the negative results. This will always be a variant organized by event organizers themselves, of course. However, in the meantime, it is simply a compulsory disease and the overall direction of testing policy will always remain with the Minister of the United States of America. That is the legal basis, and it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u200	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u201	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. Yes, the Ministry of Health and therefore the Minister of Health continue to lead the detection of infections, reporting and organising their handling, precisely because it is a type A disease. The minister says that employers have a role, of course, but when you talk about an event, it's not about employers. If I go to some festival, the organizer of that festival is not my employer. It just offers me a nice day or fun night. That's what I'm paying him for. There are gigs and we enjoy that, but in the front he has eliminated that I am infected. If it comes out of such a test that I may be infected, then he also refers me, if he's smart, to the GGD-test street to know for sure, but then I don't get on his festival site. Eliminating a risk is really something other than detecting an infection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u202	True, but even then, that obligation remains with that festival organizer. You are absolutely right; of course we are not going to organise that. If an event organizer wants to do that, he has to do it. The test target group shall determine the Minister of VWS. The reporting obligation shall determine the legislator. That notification is there, including for that event organizer. If he gets a positive result, he'll have to report it. So that direction can only be in one hand in the end, otherwise you can't make that type of arrangement. If it's a little bit everyone for themselves, then of course it's not gonna work. But if you mean that event organizers should organise this kind of thing themselves, that you should want to use the energy, the power and the power that are in the type of clubs, then I wholeheartedly agree. In fact, we can't even do it without this type of organizational power.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u203	At least the Minister uses the right words, but for me, there really is no urgency. If this really is the pace at which the Minister wants to work on this new test strategy, then he does not have to do it anymore for the cultural sector, for the catering industry or for all those students who are virtually out of touch because they have zero contact. This has to be much faster. It is not the case that we brought this up yesterday. This has been going on since spring. I and colleagues have constantly insisted on the need for a test society. That means that I asked this question: that those 10 million tests should not have been carried out in March, but in mid-January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u204	Yeah, but it's gonna be a while. Saying that something must be done is the easiest side of the debate. Then you have to organize it and that is often a bit more uncomfortable. That means we just have to do it in steps. The first step we take is the extension of the testing target group by 1 December. The second step we're taking can be very fast. You mentioned the example of students. Educational institutions have the opportunity to request large numbers of rapid tests from us and then set up a rapid test street. Mr Van Engelshoven sees that as well. I also invite education to help build up the test capacity as soon as possible. Care institutions do that, by the way. Companies can do that and we also facilitate them from the first week of December. Then it goes much faster with building capacity. In doing so, we need everyone's commitment. We do the travel in January. We also do the field labs in January, just like the pilots in the cities. Then we build that further towards February and March. I therefore believe that we are making a huge amount of meters, as we have done in the past few months in further increasing the capacity to decrease.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u205	If the Minister says that we are really going to carry out rapid tests, as the colleague of the VVD also suggests, we must also ensure that we go to a lower level of contamination. That's why you have to test this year. We are receiving reports from the Rotterdam region. They say: we would actually be ready by mid-December to go to such a test. We should do that right away. We need to start with that as soon as possible. I feel like the safe route is being chosen every time. We're in a crazy pandemic. The economic and social consequences are enormous. It's okay to take a little more risk. If regions indicate "we will succeed," at least in consultation with the municipality of Rotterdam, with the mayor and the security region. You know it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u206	I know a few people there. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u207	Then make sure it happens this year, because this pace is too slow. I think we can say that because we have been pressing this since May.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u208	I always choose the fastest route, but I choose the cautious route in the forecasts and the timelines I outline to your Chamber. In the meantime, I have learned that choosing a path that is perhaps ambitious but perhaps not feasible will always be a promise that you will be kept to a day later. I am therefore always somewhat cautious in the timelines I outline towards the Chamber. That's right. By the way, I am extremely ambitious in actually getting everything we want. I won't delay a moment if I can speed it up. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u209	Mr. Heerma. Oh, Mr. Clover, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u210	Finally, Mr President. I really mean it from the bottom of my heart. If you see now what happens in our economy and with people and if we know what we could do with quick tests, then the pace must be higher. You need to start experimenting right now, including those antigen tests. If you're experimenting with that now, it's also important for validation. Then the knife can cut on both sides at once. Make more pace, because the way things are going isn't enough. I am afraid that a lot of companies and a lot of organisations, especially in the cultural sector, will not survive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u211	I don't think we need to convince each other of the urgency. I've been working on that urgency every day. Luckily, I do that to a lot of other people. I'm getting a lot of support from VNO-NCW and support from Defense. Of course I am talking to Rotterdam to see what could possibly be done there. By the way, there are a number of other municipalities where this could be done. The sooner the better. I'll share that. The sooner the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u212	No, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u213	I just have questions about testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u214	You mean this is your last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u215	No, I'm not saying it's the last one. But there's one more thing I want to know. Just for the record, it's fantastic what all the people at the GGD do. Let me put that in front of you, too. But a country like the UK has eight times as much test capacity as we do. Denmark has four times the test capacity. So let's not pretend we're the best boy in Europe. We're behind! There are countries that are doing much better than we are. You can say, "Look at what we have done in the past period," but that is not enough. That means we have to walk faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u216	I think it's really wrong if you look at how huge that test capacity has been increased in recent times and how it's rising by thousands week after week. That's also international just absolutely good, especially if you look where we came from. That's what I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u217	The letter indicates in several traces how the antigen test and the LAMP test are already validated, how in practice meters are made of it. Track 2 describes how this can be used, how these employers can deliver staff. But a little later in the letter, it's about breathing tests. The Minister has just said a little more about this. But isn't it true in track 2 that not only in the supply of personnel to take them away, but also in the development of that breath test in the previous debate, did the Minister speak of startups, I believe, as huge opportunities lie in the cooperation with VNO-NCW? In such a breath test, it matters if it works like a blow test with alcohol, where you have to change such a tuft, or if you have to put on an entire mask that needs to be disinfected again. In the latter case, it is very difficult to use. I also believe that this development is an enormous opportunity to work together with VNO-NCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u218	Absolutely. There are now two producers in the picture with us. In terms of volumes of what is now being produced, that is still modest and clear. But of course you want much larger volumes. In the execution there is a disadvantage, namely that you have to dip that thing after it has been used, to make sure that the next test is just as reliable again. That's kind of clumsy. It's gonna take a long time. Then the concert is almost over, I would like to say to Mr Veldman. It has to be faster, it has to be better to apply, but it's insanely likely. Certainly a club like VNO wants to use all the knowledge and expertise of its members to scale things up faster. We're definitely talking to VNO about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u219	In Track 2, the antigen tests are examined in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u220	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u221	But the breath tests will not wait until December?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u222	Definitely not. We're gonna put gas on the shelf. It's not just about employers, it's about entrepreneurs. This second track applies not only to employers, but also to entrepreneurs who could think of other uses for it. At the same time the validation takes place, while the scaling-up of the production takes place in order not to waste any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u223	After the Minister, I am afraid to pronounce your name, Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u224	I saw laughs. I think I'll say my name once very well, so everyone knows: Animal. Don't you get in the middle of it. It's not a Party for the Diertjens either. It's just pets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u225	I'll never do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u226	Having said that, I welcome your answer. You say we're gonna scale it up. My follow-up question is then: is it possible that those 6,000 people who come from the source and contact research will be tested more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u227	I can't quite place that number. There are many more of them. Before we could make the decision to add the groups of the people who emerge from the source and contact research and from the app, we made a good calculation of that. There is a certain bandwidth, but it is estimated that there are 24,000 at about the current level of contamination. We do think we can get rid of that. Given the state of the lockdown, given the state of the infection, times as many contacts, then the people from the source and contact research come out. If you want to test them all on day five, even though they don't have any complaints yet, so asymptomatic, then that can be quite large numbers, but that's exactly what we want, because that keeps the virus under control. As of December 1st, we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u228	Then I go to Mr Kuzu, followed by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u229	Two weeks ago, I brought it up: it's about DNA material. In his letter, the Minister explained in detail what is going to happen to it. But that brings me to a fundamental question, which we too easily ignore. Whose DNA material is at the moment someone who's getting tested turns it in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u230	That is a question which I think Mr Kuzu can answer himself, namely that of the person who is being tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u231	So if we indicate that it belongs to someone themselves and then we indicate that through the laws and rules as we know them now, think for example of a GDPR, people on the front did not know that their data would be shared with third parties for research purposes, how can we let them know at the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u232	Just a few things. Yes, I find that the control of body material is very exciting, as if you have a severed arm or leg somewhere in the Netherlands is not well arranged. Anything ever taken for research purposes or for medical purposes can be used for research at any time. That is already the case, and it is already happening. What I think is right is that the control situation in the Netherlands is not properly regulated in this respect. That's why I have a law governing body material in preparation. This is on its way to the Council of State, or is already on its way back, but will certainly be coming your way in the near future. This is likely to be the first quarter of 2021. Two. I'm assuming that when people get tested, they understand what they're doing, namely that a cotton swab actually goes in and that the material that takes out the cotton swab is being used to assess whether someone is infected or not. What matters is whether people also know what the process is, namely that the material is equally destroyed in the event of a negative result and can also be used for research purposes to monitor the economy in the event of a positive result. The answer may not be enough, but you have rightly pointed it out, and that is why we need to improve the provision of information. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u233	In any case, it is good that the Minister points out that there is still a whole world to be won in terms of information. At the same time, there is also the awareness that we have been testing people since March. We have now had a lot of tests in the Netherlands and many people do not know that their test results, after it has been positive and after it has been established that it has been positive, have been preserved for three months in order to possibly be used for other research purposes. That is something that I think is serious, and that is something that we really should not easily ignore. Maybe I should ask written questions about that. People have a right to know what happened to their body material, their DNA, and what tests have been done and what results have been obtained. I think this is a point that deserves more attention than it has now. I would ask the Minister to at least bring forward the examination of the bill he has announced, because we are actually doing something that is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u234	No! Wait a minute. We're just trying to increase the willingness to test. Then it is good to inform well, but not good to spread all kinds of suspense. That is not necessary at all, namely. This is just about taking, indeed, something of body material, because otherwise you can't do such a test. That makes sense. There's a cotton swab going in, dragging it out a little bit, and you're gonna have it tested. That makes perfect sense. Mr Kuzu's question is whether it is now sufficiently clear to everyone that a positive result can also be used for research purposes later. It may well be that this is not the case and so we are going to improve that information. We should not pretend that something is happening at the moment which is not in accordance with the law, because it is not. By the way, it should be noted that the whole discussion about the control of body material can do a bit better. That's what the bill's about. Your room is about the order of law. I predict that your Chamber does not feel the need to deal with it by March 2021, but that is what your Chamber itself is about. It's a very complicated law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u235	It's not my intention to bring all kinds of excuses into the world. I think it is very important for the government and for this minister to give transparency about what is happening so that there is no room for such ideas. It's a legitimate question from a lot of people. I also think it is right that we should clarify this and encourage people to obtain the information they deserve. What happens to their body material? I note that there is a hole at the moment and I think it is also good that we fill that hole as soon as possible. In doing so, it is important that the Minister should at least aim for transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u236	I think you made your point. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u237	I fully understand the enthusiasm about testing and increasing the possibilities and prosperity and so on. But still, on the other hand, the question as it becomes more and more readily available. What are at some point we must take into account the legal limits of Article 11 of the Constitution, the right of the body to be inviolable. People shouldn't think that at every event, or every employer, you can say to anyone: show them your test. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u238	I think that is a dynamic debate. That's not a static debate. I shall come back to the vaccines later, because there are similar questions. Moreover, I think that it is possibly even more damaging or touching on the constitutional protection of the integrity of the body. But also the current form of testing is an invasive act, you might say. This indeed affects constitutional protection. I think it's different for a concert. If you want to hear the Nutcracker's suite that night, I can imagine that there will be more room to apply a selection to those who have or have not been tested and whether there is a negative test then if you get into the subway or another public facility for example. That works differently, even in the sense value. I think it is inevitable that this is a thought development that has not been completed, which is actually just beginning. In advance, I'm not in favour of obligations. I'll back that up with vaccination later. I'm not in favour of a test obligation. Mr Van der Staaij will argue: can this pressure not be built up implicitly when you regulate all kinds of access requirements? I'm already a bridge over that myself, saying that I think you should be able to show a negative test on board a plane. That's a condition. And why do I do that? From the point of view of infectious disease control. Then it's a matter of weighing interests. I'll weigh the importance so much that you're so anxious to avoid dragging in the virus that you're making that trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u239	I understand there are all kinds of dilemmas. The Minister has already indicated that it is not the same everywhere. My question is: can we expect leadership from the cabinet? Is there any clarity about when and when, including from the basic legal framework, that we want to keep high even in crisis time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u240	Sure. Where we impose obligations, this will always be accompanied by a legal basis for that obligation. You can, for example, take a number of steps when flying but partly without a legal basis. For example, it can be done for third-country nationals or if you agree with the airline itself. But if you make it a legal obligation, you need a legal basis. That is what we are discussing explicitly with the Chamber. Otherwise, we will have this debate much more often over the next few months. We will, of course, submit the choices we make to the Chamber every time. It is up to the Chamber to see how it should take shape. If I try the enthusiasm here for the steps towards a test society, in order to keep that society open as much as possible, so that measures which in a sense are also limiting constitutional freedoms may no longer be necessary, that is a consideration that can be defended. We here in this house will have to weigh that up with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u241	Finally. I'm just gonna find out what this is all about. There are still fundamental rights at stake. It should not be a case of what happens here. I would like us to hear a little more from the cabinet from that reflection and weighing. Can the Minister make a commitment to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u242	Perhaps we could follow the same path that Mr Segers is taking when it comes to vaccination. I'll just have to find the right shape. I understand that Mr Van der Staaij says: yes, of course we are making the decisions here in this house, but I would like to do so on the basis of a more ethical framework of what we consider to be responsible and what we consider to be less responsible. I would be happy to do so, but I would add that it will remain a dynamic debate, especially since the testing and vaccination will come together next year. Part of society is already vaccinated and another part can be tested very intensively. This also gives us other possibilities and other dilemmas. So it remains a dynamic debate and I do not want to solidify it. I hope that Mr Van der Staaij agrees with me. But I would like to consider, in line with Mr Segers' suggestion, whether we can strengthen the more ethical reflection on this in a certain way, so that we can also strengthen the debate on this in a certain way and we can talk about it in a more ethical context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u243	I've been asking questions about the PCR test for about six weeks during each debate. I have also put very specific questions in writing. There are major concerns in society about the uncertainties of the PCR test. In Portugal, the PCR test was even referred to the trash by the judge. Now the Minister says: yes, I actually answered those questions; look at a page of the RIVM. I just looked at it. That page says, "What's a PCR test?" That's explained a little bit. What's a serological test? Are you infected? How could you know that? What's a Ct value? There are no answers to my questions. I have asked very specific questions, in writing. I think that's my job here. Then I expect a specific answer in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u244	Yes, and that's what you've been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u245	I didn't. I have asked specific questions about why RIVM has increased the criteria from 30 cycles to 35 cycles, why RIVM has reduced the criteria from three targets to one target. That's not on that page you referred to, so can you just promise me that you will answer me in writing per question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u246	I really do believe that you have already had that. You asked the same question last time, and I replied to you that you have already had it. You really have to tell me what you haven't had and would still like to have. There is no reluctance whatsoever to give you any information. None!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u247	I am experiencing a great deal of restraint and I also object to the dedain with which all of this is dealt with. I'll send you the questions again. I hope that you will now be able to undertake to answer these questions in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u248	Fine. Totally fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u249	Okay, well, then that's a promise. Questions will be answered within about six weeks. We're still on the subject of testing. You still have four topics: vaccination, vulnerable people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u250	Yeah, but I just had the quarantine questions about the tests. A number of questions have been asked about quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u251	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u252	I'll check it out a little while longer. There are still legitimate questions from Segers and also from Asscher about how we support the quarantine. We see that compliance with the quarantine obligation for all target groups is not sufficient for six different target groups to be quarantined. Compliance is best for those who are themselves tested positively, but when it comes to contacts between them, we see that the quarantine obligation is not being complied with. We have already had the quarantine guide produced, partly on the basis of a motion by Mr Asscher. This guide helps people on the way for psychosocial assistance, practical assistance, care and support, income support, accommodation, day-to-day planning, sport and movement, and digital skills. That helps, but it's not enough. In collaboration with GGD and Red Cross, we are currently in the process of shaping the use of quarantine coaches for people who are in quarantine or in isolation. During the quarantine period, people are expected to be called twice or three times by quarantine coaches. They can provide social support, lead the way to relevant help and support. That helps. In addition, I establish the connection between those quarantine coaches and the existing Ready2Help initiative of the Red Cross. That is a network of 85,000 people who are ready to give extra help to people who need it: shopping, walking the dog, picking up children. You shouldn't confuse those two. Anything can therefore be supported. We are trying to put all this into practice as practically as possible. In addition, I am glad to see that a lot of municipalities are in the process of setting up all kinds of support. This was a suggestion from Mr Asscher during the debate last time: make sure that municipalities learn from each other how to provide this practical support in the neighbourhoods. This learning process takes place in full swing and it is ensured that municipalities will take over each other's good ideas. Mr Segers' question was similar. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the block of vaccination. A great deal is happening in the area of vaccinations, but we will also talk about this very regularly, because I expect that tomorrow we will be given the advice of the Health Council on the vaccination strategy. In particular, what target groups should be vaccinated first and which target groups after that, from the perspective: how can you protect society as quickly and as effectively as possible? Then, in the short term, I expect to take a first decision from the cabinet on the vaccination strategy. I deliberately say 'a first decision' because much will depend on developments in the coming period. This is about the target groups: which target group first and which target groups afterwards? Of course, all kinds of implementation aspects emerge from this. We've been buying for months. We ensure that we can contract any vaccines that might be effective and could quickly emerge as a winning horse. We now have a portfolio of six vaccines which we regard as very promising. Meanwhile, we have managed to prepare the whole logistics operation, which we have been working on for months, in a good way. We do all these things in parallel, but that does not make it a simple operation. It is a very complex operation, because we will soon have to wait and see how the first delivery of the first vaccine that will be delivered will be, when it will be, and also for which target group. This means that you are preparing an implementation strategy with a lot of variables, in which you have to make a sensible choice, but where you also need to be manoeuvrable, because you don't know which vaccine is delivered first and whether that is effective for the target group that you would actually want to vaccinate first. Mr Veldman asked about the preparation of the vaccination strategy. That is what we are doing, as I said. The Health Council is coming with its advice tomorrow. As soon as possible afterwards, I would like to send the vaccination strategy, at least the first decision on this matter, to your Chamber. Mrs. Diertens...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u253	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u254	... asks whether it is also possible to deviate from the agreed prioritisation. Yes, that will be necessary at the time when, for example, you would see that the vaccine that is delivered first for the target group that you actually wanted to vaccinate first turns out to be insufficiently effective. In that case, you will have to deviate and that means something for those who are going to vaccinate this target group. So that really means something for the layout of the execution. So you're gonna have to be agile. Mr Veldman asks how priority is given to dealing with people in the vaccination strategy who have already developed detectable antibodies. We cannot do that in the vaccination strategy, of course, because that would mean keeping up with that kind of information. We don't keep track of that, because that's privacy-sensitive information. People themselves know whether or not they have had corona, but of course we do not register it. It is also technically impossible to include this in the vaccination strategy. Mr Veldman also asked if the testing and vaccinations would come together. The PvdA and DENK also mentioned this. I acknowledge that. In what way exactly that happens, we do not know exactly yet, but if part of society is already vaccinated, you will have to consider for another part of society what measures are still needed and then what measures are still needed at the time when you test very intensively. So that has everything to do with each other. But we don't know exactly how that's gonna work yet. Another practical point: could you possibly use the test streets as they are now equipped with a huge logistics operation, which could also be used for vaccination? That's very interesting, too. That will depend entirely on which target groups you want to vaccinate at what point. But we are indeed trying to link the vaccination strategy with the test strategy, also in conjunction with the measures we are taking at some point. The VVD asked questions about all the supplies. Others have also asked questions about this. We have been working on practical preparations for months. A very specific question has been asked about the freezers for the vaccine of BioNTech and Pfizer in particular. That has to be kept at -70°C, so you need freezers that go to -80°C. We have those ultralow freezers. There have been additional purchases in recent months. Not with the supplier who told Nieuwsuur that they were not ordered from him, but with another supplier, also a Dutch supplier. They'll be ready in December. So if BioNTech and Pfizer are very fast, if they have organized the admission very quickly at EEA and if they can proceed very quickly, then the freezers are ready to store the stuff. Then the theme of vaccination readiness. This is linked to the questions that have been asked about a vaccination obligation or an indirect vaccination obligation. That theme is very important, also from a political point of view. I see all the studies currently showing that the will to start vaccination is not very high. We already knew that, because previous studies of the behavioral unit also show that vaccination readiness is somewhere between 50% and 70%. That also has a bit to do with the questions raised by the investigations, but we do not see it rising for the time being. That's something to worry about. I want to say the following in this way here, because there are several reasons for people to hesitate in vaccination. One thinks, for example, that things are not going very fast? Or one thinks: are we quite sure that it is sufficiently safe? That is why I would like to say here: the authorisation by the EEA is much faster than usual, but in no way detracts from all the requirements and all the checks and balances in terms of safety and effectiveness. I will repeat this much more often. If it's not safe or effective, then it just doesn't happen. We can still want a vaccine, but if it doesn't come through that gate, it won't happen. That's one. Two. If you leave some kind of vaccination obligation hanging in the air, or the possibility of it, people are startled by it. Then they say "we'll see about that" and "I don't think so, because I don't want to." Besides, I don't know how you're supposed to carry out a vaccination obligation. But I don't want to. We're not gonna do it. There is no legal basis. I have repeated this here a great many times. I think we should be very careful to leave that suggestion hanging over the market. I am convinced that it is counterproductive in people's willingness to vaccinate. So, no, there's not going to be a vaccination obligation. There will also be no indirect duty. Something else could happen at some point, and we need to be very precise about that. Last week there was a lack of precision in the coverage of this and that is why I am committed to saying it precisely here. There could be a situation where you first vaccinate the nursing home residents and the people who work with the nursing home residents. It could be. The decision hasn't been made yet, but it could be. The question could then be at some point: if that nursing home resident, the employee who works there and the caregiver are already vaccinated, is it still necessary for them to comply with all the measures in force? No, of course not anymore at the time. In short, a fair question could be: can there at any time be differences between the people who have been vaccinated and those who have not been vaccinated? I think that the situation I have just described can make a legitimate distinction. Something else are all kinds of thoughts about some kind of vaccination passport and stuff. I think you should be very careful with that, because before you know it, you're organizing some kind of implicit urge, which you should be very reluctant about. I should like to take up the suggestion made by Mr Segers on this point. He said: shouldn't you go to a more ethical framework, as a basis for the political discussion about this? In the end, politics is about it. Politics will have to make those decisions. Perhaps you would like to introduce additional legal protection in order to avoid the possibility of duties associated with being vaccinated or not. Then too, you will have to have a very good political debate on this. An ethical foundation can do a great job of helping. I'd like to work with that. I also predict that this will be a dynamic debate in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u255	I am going to Mr Wilders and then after Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u256	It will not only be dynamic; it will be one of the important debates of the coming period. A lot of people are very happy that there is a vaccine, and I understand that, and I think the Minister is free to promote it. If he believes in that group immunity, he might even find it his job. I'll give him that, too. But I also think that in the end it should always be the people who make that decision. Fortunately, I do not hear so much difference with the Minister. I'm so glad you said no compulsion. That is what you said earlier, and yesterday you even said: no compulsion or urge. No compulsion means that you are not going to impose it, tribute to it, but no urge also means that you do not require it indirectly. I think you just said the same thing. So in the end, people themselves make the decision about their own physical integrity. Again, it's up to you to convince them to do it. But if they finally say that they do not want it, for whatever reason, then their choice must be respected. They must also be treated in the same way as those who do. That, I think, is the essence of the question. You can always talk about nursing homes, exceptions and an ethical framework. I welcome that. But the basic rule must be: no compulsion, no urge, no obligation, but also no indirect obligation. That means you don't harm people if they don't do it or benefit them if they do. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u257	Yes, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u258	The Minister elaborates on the necessary process, in terms of staff, equipment and logistics, in order to be able to start vaccination at all. I get that. There are several variables, which, depending on the operation of the different vaccines, lead to different scenarios. I understand that, too. It's gonna be a complicated puzzle. It's a puzzle that we've been able to work on for a while and which still has to be worked on, but in the end this puzzle is soluble. It can all be filled in and choices can be made. In my first term, I asked if the Minister agrees with me that, in the end, if you have worked on all of those scenarios and fulfilled, only the availability of the number of vaccines can be a barrier to being able to vaccinate people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u259	Eventually, yes, but I would add that we've been preparing for months. We are not only in the process of purchasing the vaccines, I started doing so very early, but also preparing the implementation. Just because of the many variables, it's a very complex operation. We shouldn't be like: you can prepare for it, so it's also soluble. Yeah, but that still makes it a very complex organization. I think we should always mention this. This has to do with storage, distribution, security, administration and with all the conditions imposed by suppliers. It also has to do with the application to be demonstrated by the examination of all test data provided to the EEA. The EEA will eventually make the following statement: research results have shown that this vaccine is effective for this target group. If you are just ready to inoculate, for example, the most vulnerable people and the first delivery is not exactly suitable for that target group, then you will have to be manoeuvrable to vaccinate another target group. How do you make that assessment? Of course we do. That is a political consideration. The cabinet will make a proposal and the Chamber will debate it. In practical implementation, this means that we have to make all those implementing organisations behind it, such as general practitioners, GGDs and company doctors, so agile that we can act as soon as the vaccine is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u260	I think we're in agreement then. It's complex and complicated. It requires flexibility and manoeuvrability of everything that is needed in terms of organisation, but at the bottom of the line, the number of vaccines is ultimately the only limiting factor for being able to vaccinate as many Dutch people as possible. It's nice that we found each other in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u261	And the efficacy of the vaccines in different target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u262	Yeah, but my question was about administering. I fully agree with the Minister when he says, in response to Mr Segers, that vaccination is ultimately an ethical issue where people do not report on their own to be vaccinated. I agree with him that volunteering is the most beautiful basis. That calls for a very good campaign. That does ask to take people and seduce them to do it wisely. I haven't heard from the Minister yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u263	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u264	When does the campaign start?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u265	It's in full preparation. This will start as soon as possible. We are currently providing the general information. As soon as this is possible, we will say more about the practical application. It's gonna take a campaign. I think we need to have the debate with each other as precisely as possible. I should have just said to Mr Wilders that I fully agree with the way he puts it. I do not want a vaccination obligation; I want it to be a free choice. I sincerely believe that the longer we hold on to it and hold on to it, the more we do for the willingness to vaccination. But that also includes the fact that we always tell them how incredibly important vaccination is, how much we have been able to eradicate very nasty diseases and how much we no longer suffer from diseases on our continent until decades ago. Vaccination has made an insane contribution to public health. Even now vaccination will be our most important asset to put that very nasty history of the coronavirus behind us. That's the story we always have to tell. I hear people say, if you've covered about 70%, you can afford 30% not to join the vaccination. But what if the vaccine is not effective enough for people with a vulnerable immune system? Then it's 30% reserved for them. It is precisely in order to protect them that we will have to do vaccination with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u266	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u267	That's always part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u268	Then I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u269	I fully agree with the latter; I would also like to join in that. But that does ask to start that campaign now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u270	That's what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u271	...and not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u272	Tonight isn't gonna work anymore, but we can do that in the very short term. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u273	But precisely because there will always be a group that cannot be vaccinated because of its own health, we must seduce others. We shouldn't close doors now, like: we do something or we don't do something. My request to the Cabinet and to the Health Minister is to continue to think about how we will ultimately ensure that as many Dutch people are vaccinated as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u274	This is a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u275	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u276	Then I'm going to see Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u277	I welcome the Minister's reply, and I very much agree with that and the link he makes with the willingness to vaccination. If it's a voluntary choice, people will take all the information and start vaccination rather than putting a knife to their throats. I am therefore very much in agreement with him, including with regard to the position of principle. But there is another ethical dilemma that also arises: what is a justified price for a vaccine? We've had major vaccination programs before, for example for teenage girls. Then at the end of the line a big price had to be paid. The question is always what a justified price is. How do we know we're not paying too much? It's social costs, it's general costs, it's public costs. How do we ensure that, on the other side of the negotiation, there is also social awareness and a moral awareness that there should not be over-asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u278	I understand very well what Mr Segers is saying, but I think Mr Segers understands very well that I cannot say very much about it, except that I agree with him and that it is the commitment of the negotiations. I can't share prices right now, because if I do that about one vaccine, it means that the other negotiates a little easier. You don't want to, because you want to be a strong negotiating partner. We Netherlands, Germany, France and Italy have had the first conversation with the first vaccine developer, AstraZeneca. That's what we made the first appointment with ourselves. A very socially responsible price was asked for. That has then become the commitment of the European Commission, which has taken over this task from the four of us on behalf of the 27 Member States. That's how negotiations were conducted. There has been strong and well-negotied negotiations. With five of the six who are now in the portfolio, a contract has actually been made with contractual agreements. It makes the social commitment clear. I appreciate that. Pharmaceuticals see very well that they have an insane social responsibility at the moment. They currently have the role to play in bringing this pandemic to an end. I am therefore firmly convinced that social responsibility is being carried out in a good way. That means that this is our commitment to the price negotiations. As soon as it is possible and justified, we will, of course, make it public as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u279	The latter is indeed important. In the case of previous massive vaccination programmes, the cabinet has been sent back with the announcement: this was really awesome; this was really the top prize and not a socially responsible price. But at the end of the ride it wasn't always clear what was paid. I am very pleased with pharmaceutical companies that are now investing everything in research, which are looking very hard on behalf of..................................................................................................................................................................................... Humanity to a vaccine. It's really wonderful that they want to. But it would be very unfair and irresponsible to pay such a high price that a number of people would be extremely rich over the back of taxpayers. So can the Minister undertake to answer for what was paid at the end? I understand that we cannot enter into negotiations now, but because we are talking about public money, I think we are entitled to that information at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u280	Yes. Everything we can give for information, also because the European Commission is now negotiating on our behalf, we will give when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u281	Good. I had Mr Asscher standing, but first go to Mrs Diertens. What about Mr Asscher? Yeah, I'm fine. Mrs. Diertens is already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u282	Super good, that vaccination policy. I think there are still a lot of notes to be said about this, but I had an association with my colleague Veldman's own-initiative paper on healthy lifestyles and vaccinations. I have tabled a motion, which is widely supported, on the inclusion of all vaccinations in a personal health environment, so that they can be registered and consulted at any time and preferably by app. I think that if you have that vaccination, it is very important that this is at least accessible to yourself, but also to others in case you get sick and may not need to be fully absorbed and so on. I think it's important that it's registered properly. Let me mention the number of that motion. That's the motion 35082... I think it's okay to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u283	Oh, now that you mention the number, there are all kinds of lights on... A few things about that. Yeah, we're definitely gonna have to come up with a registration system. The question is whether you want to come up with something from a vaccination passport, which allows others to see whether or not you have been vaccinated. I don't think we should. But that's not your question. You also need to register for another reason. For example, if it comes to side effects at any time, you should be able to inform people who have had a dose from that batch, that delivery, about the side effects that have already occurred to another person. That's why you need a registration. So yes, we are going to build a registration, but we are going to do so according to all the requirements of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u284	A follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u285	This came about because it's actually such a mess within that whole registration of all those vaccinations; vaccinations that you get abroad, which you get inland. Then the discussion arose, with a motion by GroenLinks that there should be a passport. But we all thought, well, you can do that in an app, then you've got all that data together. So I'd say, in one stroke, it costs less energy and can do it all together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u286	Good. This suggestion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u287	I'll take the suggestion, let me put it this way. But what we are doing is as simple as possible, as soon as possible, because we need it very quickly. So we can't afford major IT projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u288	Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Staaij. And then Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u289	The Minister is going through the answer so quickly. I would like to ask another question in which I take a step back in the road map of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u290	You can't do that. Sorry, that's explained in detail...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u291	Too late!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u292	It was like an express train.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u293	You can only go to the right, I say to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u294	You should read Hebrew, then maybe it'll be something. The question is this. We have a quarantine guide and a quarantine coach is coming. But we also see that the percentages are too low. On two points, it is not yet in order. I don't think the people who come back from orange territory get in touch with such a quarantine coach so easily. So I'd still like to invite the Minister to indicate what he's doing about it specifically. Then two. The letter also says something about income support. All kinds of suggestions have been made. But it'll only take a minute. It would be extremely helpful not only for a referral to a special assistance point, but also for a visible concrete income support approach. I would like to invite the Minister to make a few comments on these two points in that road map...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u295	... take a step back. Every road map must also be a little flexible, I think we agree with each other. So I'd like to take that step back. First, that quarantine support for travelers. I very much agree with that. What we do for this is that we have taken the lesson of a passenger registration from Germany and Belgium. We have an app that you expected of course already a little bit of "in development" at the moment. It's actually a website. We have that in development and we want to use it very quickly, because otherwise you will indeed not have the intervention you do in quarantine. Normally, it starts the source and contact research. That's because someone got tested, tested positive and had close contacts and so on. Then you have a start on a work process. You don't have that in travelers. We also want to create a moment of intervention there, and that is the registration of travellers. From there you can actually use the same types of support as the people who have to quarantine because of BCO or because of the CoronaMelder. That's one. Two is income support. You know from the cabinet that we want it as much as you want it to be. All creativity has been used to see how we could shape that well. That's not easy. Mr Koolmees is currently considering whether an arrangement could be made in the special assistance to support all people who do not fit within all the arrangements that are already in place. This income support is not entirely self-contained, by the way. We have also done the shortening of the quarantine to make it easier, to ensure that people are not out of work for too long. This is good for entrepreneurs and for employers, but of course also for employees and certainly forzzp'ers and people with a flex contract. So we're trying to keep the threshold of quarantine as low as possible and make the support as high as possible. We continue to search for a good form, including income support. At the moment, the variant with the special assistance seems to be the most viable, although that too will be quite a tour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u296	Finally, Mr President, on this point. I understand all the concerns and I understand that it's complex. But if you drop the cost of a day lockdown at the cost that could lead people to be tempted to go into quarantine, you'll almost always see that it's a good idea to do that and help people. All kinds of suggestions have been made. In my opinion, Mr Heerma has already said in one of the previous debates: let vouchers be distributed by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u297	That's what we're investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u298	It helps a lot if we start practicing it a little bit and not just researching it. Every time someone does and prevents contamination, that would help a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u299	It's true, it's true, it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u300	Let's get back to the point of vaccination. Clear what the Minister said about that. It is a good thing that he stressed this: neither directly nor indirectly, but good factually reliable information about what vaccines do. My question is about what he then mentioned, about that look at if in such a nursing home or the people and the care workers have had the opportunity to vaccination. How exactly does he see that? Does that imply or not understanding people's personal vaccination history?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u301	Let's say there's a vaccination strategy. I have to do that with all kinds of assumptions, because the cabinet still has to decide on that vaccination strategy. I would now like to explain this situation. So don't pin it on me that this is going to be the order of things. Of course, the Health Council and then the Cabinet might say: what you should actually do is first vaccinate the most vulnerable people. Well, where do they live? They live in the nursing homes. What is also wise to vaccinate the employees who work with the most vulnerable people is said. Well, then you'd be after the group of employees in the nursing homes. If both have been vaccinated, because that is simply the order of the vaccination campaign, and there is therefore a certain immunity built up in such a house, then the question might arise as to whether it is still necessary for them to observe a similar set of measures if the rest of society is asked to comply. I think the answer is, "No, you don't have to do that anymore." Of course, that would be fantastic. This is an answer to the question as to whether it could ever be so that, because you are halfway through that vaccination campaign, different rules apply to different groups. No, not to give benefits to the group that has been vaccinated, but because it can be practically that part of society is already sufficiently protected so that additional measures are no longer needed for them at that time. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u302	Clear, but doesn't that mean that in that situation it's going to be linked to the being or not vaccinated of individuals within a particular sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u303	No. I think I get the sidewalk. Suppose there is a house where people, despite being among the priority target groups, do not use vaccination. If they were to abandon these measures, they would, of course, be at great risk. That would be very irresponsible. They would then have to continue with the measures. Here is an example of how dynamic this discussion will be in the coming months. What I think is important now is that we should opt for a vaccination strategy and communication on this which makes it clear that there is no duty. No, there is no indirect obligation either, because it would be counterproductive to the willingness to vaccination. I'm sure of it. There is, however, a huge importance of vaccination. I'm going to try very hard to convince people of that. We're gonna set up a great communication campaign to get that done. At some point you will be faced with the question, which is why I would like to take Mr Segers' suggestion about what you are doing with a society where a part of it has already been vaccinated and some of it has not yet been. We will have to answer these questions with each other in an ethically responsible way. I think that an ethical framework can help us to do this, actually similar to the question you have just asked about testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u304	I think the Minister's line is very sensible, since he also leaves no doubt that there will be either direct or indirect vaccination. In doing so, he immediately punctures the balloon that took off the VVD in the first term. That's only good. That's what makes it clear. I remember a discussion about the corona app. We made an emergency bill for that at the time. In one of the debates we had, the Minister talked about not favouring people who didn't have a corona app on their phones. There has even been a call for substantial sanctions in the law. Is he willing to do that before the vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u305	Let me ask that question... Precisely: it's about not finding legitimate that an employer requires the use of the CoronaMelder. You could say that there is something similar there, although I think installing that app is a lot less invasive than doing a test, or definitely a vaccination. So I think that's really another chapter. There is, of course, constitutional protection in this case. You're just entitled to the integrity of the body. So there is actually much more legal framework here. I do not rule out the need for more legislation, but I would like to link that with the suggestion made by Mr Segers to create an ethical framework in order to be able to pursue that discussion with each other at the right time. I do not rule out the need for additional legislation, but as I see it now, it seems to me that there is already a lot of protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u306	It's a good thing the Minister says so. I'm not interested in the differences in that. It's the principle that matters to me. The principle must be that we do not make people who refuse to be vaccinated uncertain about what that means: whether or not they are admitted to organisations, whether they are allowed to join their employer, etc. I think that this debate should indeed be held in the near future, partly on the basis of recent events.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u307	I think so, too. I think that's very good. There are practical situations. For example, if you are an employer of a nursing home, some of which is vaccinated and some of which is not, and you would like to come to that nursing home to a scale-down of measures, it is nice if you have the space to say to employees: you are allowed to work with these residents and you are not for a while. I would like to give that space back to an employer for the sake of public health. By the way, that's what's happening now. It's happening in hospitals, of course, right now. You have to be able to make those kinds of choices. However, it must not have any labour law consequences. But you have to be able to make those kind of practical choices. So I think it would be really good to pursue this discussion here on the basis of a proper ethical consideration and then to see whether additional legislation is necessary for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u308	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u309	I've finished the vaccination block, thanks to all the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u310	You were already done, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u311	Then we'll go to the nursing homes and the other questions about vulnerable residents. The SP asked a number of questions about the nursing homes. Fortunately, mortality rates at the second wave are lower. That is a very positive development. Nursing homes are much better prepared and now, for example, very good at cohort care, but it remains intense of course. The situation that Mr Asscher saw in the nursing home in Amsterdam is terrible. That's exactly the story you always hear back. It can go insanely fast. It is such a treacherous virus that, once it gets around it in such a house, all employees, who are really used to dying in such a nursing home, really startled by the merciless brutality of that virus and its unpredictability. That is also the case with very good nursing homes, which are incredibly secure in hygiene measures, which are very precise towards their employees, for example, and which are very precise on visit. Still, that nasty virus is so treacherous that once it's in the house, et cetera. Yet I see that nursing homes are fortunately much better prepared than in the first wave. I have incredibly much respect for the professionalism with which nursing homes do this and do this job. You also see that there are really lessons learned from the first wave. We do as much as we can to support nursing homes. Mrs Marijnissen quite rightly says that hospitals can scale down because of the pressure on staff and the pressure that covid care brings, but that someone in nursing care who hears that on television every time thinks: I would like to, but I cannot make that choice, because people live with us. At the same time, you can make choices. Besides, you're gonna have to, because if 20%, 30% of your staff are sick, you're gonna have to make choices. These are choices to help a lot of extra people, to help carers, for example, or to help people with care from the Extra Hands initiative. That one too, of course, the one first. But it may also be that you have to make choices in the intensity of care. Then how do you make those choices? Who are you talking to? For that, ActiZ made a hand-out. That's the way you look at it. This is to support the nursing homes that are faced with the inevitable situation in which they have to choose. Then the ventilation systems in the nursing homes. Mrs Sazias asked: what does the Minister mean by active approach? ActiZ has approached all her members with questions about ventilation systems. ActiZ has a group in which all real estate managers are present, in which specific questions about the ventilation system can be shared. ActiZ will have an image of the ventilation systems and the nursing homes. Those ventilation systems are basically in order. VWS itself asked all other industry organisations, including inter-branch organisations representing smaller healthcare providers, for example. We didn't get any signals that the ventilation wouldn't be in order. And ventilation simply remains important. So all the signals that we would get that it would not be in order here and there are immediate reasons to get to work. Has research been done on air quality and aerosols in nursing homes? Research institute MARIN carries out research into ventilation systems, the spread of viruses and air quality in collaboration with various technical universities, academic centres and TNO. This is a wide-ranging study in which health care institutions are also involved. ActiZ has also been approached to join. This week the research design will be discussed with VWS. We will, of course, keep the Chamber informed about the progress of this investigation. In addition, outbreak-oriented investigations take place at the time when it is suspected that ventilation might have played a role, when in Maassluis, for example. Then there will be specific outbreak studies to learn more from them. These research results are also brought together. Is the Building Decision intended to act as a measuring bar for ventilation systems? The building owner is responsible for the proper functioning of the ventilation system. The building and housing supervision of the municipality in question is responsible for its supervision. In the case of new construction and conversion, the building application will assess whether the ventilation system meets the requirements of the 2012 Building Decision. This is also monitored. In the case of existing construction, the same requirements of the Building Decision 2012 apply and can maintain building and housing supervision. In this sense, the Building Decision can indeed be seen as a measuring bar for the correct use of ventilation systems. The one about the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u312	I shall go first to Mrs Marijnissen and then to Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u313	There is indeed a violent situation in the nursing homes. Of course, the staff there is used to dealing with saying goodbye to people. I was in Boxtel last week at a nursing home myself. There they said they should have said goodbye to three residents in one hour. Those ladies caught up with the feeling: where does this go and where does this stop? I asked them, what could help you most now? Besides more colleagues, they said: the tests, the quick tests. I asked for that in my contribution. Can't we mean a little more in that, with or without a control test? In any case, for the employees themselves, but perhaps also for the staff's family members. They say: if we are dealing with a case or a suspicious case in the home, that means something to me when I go to work, because I don't want to walk that virus in there. Is there any room there to expand that? Then we can start with the nursing homes, of course with the employees, but perhaps also with the circle around them. Then we will at least ensure that the people who are available can get to work as much as possible and as nicely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u314	That is a very fair question. In the second track of the test strategy, we were the first to enable the nursing homes to order quick tests at the LCH. It's been possible since last week. They can set up their own rapid test streets. We're just inviting the nursing homes to take advantage of that. Last week I had a consultation with ActiZ and Zorgthuisnl. However, in the validation of the application of those antigen tests, the following complex point does play out, namely that they are not yet sufficiently applicable to asymptomates for use in a setting with very vulnerable people. Why? Because you can't lean entirely on the results. That means you still need confirmation from a PCR test. This is without prejudice to the fact that more and more nursing homes are making use of them. Some had already set up their own test street, for example at the hospital around the corner. Some of them are doing PCR tests so fast that they don't really need antigen tests anymore. But the invitation to the sector stands. If you want to set up your own PCR test street, we're gonna help you with that. You can get stuff from us. It's been possible since last week. That counter at the LCH is open. For example, a large institution like Laurens has already set up its own test street. They work with PCR and I know from other nursing homes that they also work with PCR. But it is absolutely true that, as far as I am concerned, it can be very encouraged to apply it. I do think that for a truly safe application to nursing homes other types of rapid testing will eventually be even more applicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u315	Then I'll go to Mrs. Sazias. Take the microphone all the way to the right, because that's a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u316	I'd like to come back to the active approach to nursing homes by ActiZ. I've got ActiZ's checklist for nursing homes here. The first question is: know the RIVM guidelines. The care organisations are not always the owner of the property. The property owner is responsible for the ventilation. First of all, I think this checklist is a little too non-binding. Under "active approach," I mean calling someone and asking how they're doing. I'd rather see someone being sent by to make sure it's true. That's question one. My other question is: can we demand this from property owners? Or is that noncommittal? For care settings themselves, installing a good ventilation system is of course an expensive joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u317	But the fees are also generous. Care institutions are just paid for that. There is a normative housing component in the fees, in the rate, of the Wlz, so that's just what healthcare institutions are compensated for. But much more important than that, care institutions have of course been intensively engaged in ventilation for a long time. Ventilation is incredibly important for nursing homes. We have 2,400 locations. I can't look at 2,400 locations. By the way, this is not our job, but the work of health care institutions themselves. They are responsible for their buildings and they also feel very responsible for their buildings. I've seen ActiZ working on this very proactively. Members take part in this very proactively. They do everything in their power to ensure good ventilation, especially at this time, to prevent them from playing a role in the contamination through ventilation. We have seen that in the house in Maassluis there was talk of the recirculation of air in one room. The RIVM says very clearly that you should not recirculate air in one room. This is also contrary to the Building Decree 2012. Mrs. Sazias asks if nursing homes are required to have good ventilation. Yes, because they are obliged to comply with the Building Decree 2012. Is there any surveillance on that? Yeah, by building and housing supervision. Are they on the sidewalk at nursing homes every day to go to the ventilation system? No, of course. It is therefore important that people who own or use a building are aware of this and are aware of it themselves. They have to get to work on that. They should also be encouraged and supported. The latter is the case. We did that through ActiZ. I think that is something that has been very proactively acted on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u318	Yet there are nursing homes that have no ventilation systems at all. They are advised to keep the windows ajar. If the temperature drops considerably, I don't think it's wise for those vulnerable people at all. Again, you don't think "call" is an active approach? Do you think it is sufficient that there is a checklist and that there is also a webinar organised?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u319	Yeah, and there's an app group of real estate managers. So it's not true that that's the end of it. I think Mrs Sazias has in her head a number of examples of locations where it seems to be out of order. I would ask Mrs Sazias to give me those names outside the broadcast, because then I am going to ask IGJ to go after them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u320	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u321	I come to Mr Segers' question, and also from Mr Asscher, about helping people get through the dark days. What happens at that point? Of course, we have our program One against loneliness. That's a big show. I believe that 130 national organisations are members of this. More than 200 municipalities now have their own local approach against loneliness. Insanely many actions are being prepared, especially now. They're about to start a national campaign. That's one. Two is Mr Segers' suggestion two weeks ago. There is a very large social movement behind that, a church social movement, with a lot of mass, a lot of will to do something beautiful and a lot of initiative. That's actually what we're trying to put together. In addition, from the corona approach as a whole, we have the path of Attention for each other. We don't want to let that run away from each other, we want to merge. All those initiators together are currently preparing with us a nice total pallet of support, just for those dark days. That looks really, really beautiful. In addition, on the basis of Mr Asscher's suggestion last time, we started bringing together municipalities to discuss how to support people and what you can learn from each other. We expect a lot of that too. At the moment, therefore, a core group has been formed with #not only Humanitas, Present, Sunflower, NOV and many others to be able to combine all the initiatives that are there in December. We help to strengthen that where we can. Several media have already enthusiastically expressed their desire to participate, including the call to perhaps do something extra, to make a small gesture in those dark days. Mr. Chairman. That was about dealing with loneliness. Let's go to the block of varia; here we are again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u322	The highlight of the evening! Already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u323	Isn't that right? Sure. I am going to begin, of course, with a question from the Animal Party. It's about new outbreaks in slaughterhouses. Isn't there a need for reporting? The outbreaks mentioned by Mrs Van Esch are in meat processing plants and not in slaughterhouses. It is not therefore a question of the slaughter of farms themselves. I have been informed of these outbreaks by the Cooperation Platform for Migrant Workers. All parties are represented: the Inspection SZW, the NVWA, the GGD, the security region, the RIVM. So they're all in the loop. In a way, therefore, there is no need to be reported. The GGD has drawn up a plan of action: how to act in these situations? That plan is being followed. The presidents of the security regions concerned, in consultation with the GGD, have determined and taken appropriate measures. It is therefore not the case that the security region and the GGD are not involved. On the contrary, they are the right move. Both companies have been temporarily closed. The security regions have indicated that the situation is now under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u324	There were other questions from Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u325	Mr. Rutte...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u326	Mr. Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u327	The Prime Minister has already answered those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u328	Then I'll go see Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u329	I'd like to go back to those slaughterhouses. These are meat processing companies we know about. That's where they reported it and that's where they acted. But it was about the things we don't see. We do get signals from the workplace that things are going wrong in slaughterhouses. I wonder if you'll get those signals, too. I hear a beep!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u330	Someone's hearing aid needs to be turned off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u331	Mr. Krol, is that sound from you? Is the battery dead? Or is it doing it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u332	Solved!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u333	All right, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u334	We hear signs that it is not going well in those slaughterhouses, and I wonder if the Minister will receive these signals. The answer to one of our questions says that there have been seven inspections in the last month and a half, and not one slaughterhouse has been visited. We think there is indeed a risk there. I'm very curious about that. Those notifications were well received and there was a risk. I have to tell you, I thought it was pretty intense to hear those numbers. What are we gonna do about the places we feel aren't going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u335	If there is an infection on a farm and there is a second and a third infection, it is from that moment on a cluster outbreak at a company. How do we know that? We know that because the G.D.D. knows that. There are three positive infections coming together, and that is a cluster. Through the source and contact research, these information flows are merged, even if it were in two different GMD regions. That's how we organized the reports. That'll be the most likely entrance you can find out. A second entrance can be through the supervisor, but well, the supervisor should just come by and he should just know. Of course, the notification of a positive infection simply goes through the GGD. That's how the call is made. If there would be a reporting obligation after which there would be all kinds of supervision or punishment or whatever, then I am a little afraid that you will find out less and less. A reporting obligation could therefore be counterproductive. Then perhaps an employer is not at all inclined to have his employees tested. If that test proves that you have three infections and that you will be closed anyway, then of course you are the shaak as a company that works with many migrant workers, of whom we know there are already a lot of infections. In short, a reporting obligation, as Mrs Van Esch has in mind, would not add to the information very much and could be counterproductive in the perspective of action that you then have. We know quite well what, we have a whole platform in which all supervisors and all executive services who then have to maintain work together and share knowledge with each other. The examples to which Mrs Van Esch refers are examples of how well that can go. It certainly isn't going well everywhere, I wouldn't say that, but at least here it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u336	Then I'm gonna go into it even more deeply, because I think we're gonna talk past each other. So we don't know if people get infected at that place and how many there are, because it's not reported. A lot of people are called to stop telling people that they may have corona, so they don't start testing either. The company thinks in this respect: we are not going to let our employees test themselves in this way, because in no time we have to close or reduce our slaughter rate. We are getting signals that these companies are no longer being tested. So we actually know far too little about the employees there. No inspections are carried out there either. That's what worries us. There are no such inspections, and we are getting signals that even employees will be notified to stop being tested. Employees who have to check, supervisors, are also asked not to report themselves that they might have corona. The OMT advice was also clear here: set up the reporting obligation with these companies, because with this you actively give companies the message "you have to do this." So they're not doing it right now, they're not even testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u337	There's quite a lot of storylines in the question, but I'll try to raffle some of them apart. The first is the question of whether it is wise for companies to entame their employees to be tested. The answer to that question is simply: yes. Is it allowed for companies to prohibit employees from being tested? The answer to that question is simply: no. That's not allowed. It is contrary to good employership and it is also enforceable by the ISZW. If Mrs Van Esch has this type of signal, I would like to hear it, because then we can pass it on to the supervisor so that the supervisor can act. That's one. Two. Would it be the right behavior to impose a reporting obligation? In a way, this obligation already exists, from the presence of positive infections. Employees are tested, then the GGD can make a cluster analysis and different infections can come together. That notification already exists, the GGD is part of that cooperation platform and can contact the other implementation services in that cooperation platform. That's how it worked here, and that's how it's supposed to work. This means that there is a de facto notification route. Is there a notification to the employer? My concern would be that it would be counterproductive if I imposed a reporting obligation on the employer who was subject to sanctions at the time when there would be an infection. That's when you provoke behavior from the same employer to discourage people from getting tested, especially if you have a lot of migrant workers. I think we should take it another way. I honestly believe much more in inviting these employers to start their own test portal, to be proactive about it and to ensure a safe working environment. I think that's our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u338	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u339	Finally, on this point. I think we need to pass on the signals we receive, because I think we're gonna talk past each other at this point. You indicated that the rest of the questions were answered by the Prime Minister, but I assume that you will still come up with answers to questions I have asked about prevention, because they fit perfectly with this analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u340	Yes, I thought it was special, too, but I noticed that our Prime Minister was just waiting to give the answer. I think there are two prints made from the same answer. One of them accidentally ended up with him, too. It was so natural that I thought: I actually have nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u341	I understand that, but that answer specifically addressed a question from D66 and my question was a little bit different. That is why I am curious about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u342	Excuse me. How can I help? Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u343	Look. All right. I saw a really nice tweet about the prevention of Secretary of State Blokhuis coming by today. In my contribution, I indicated that it is very good that the communication strategy has been implemented, but that we would like to take steps forward. Communication is very important, but we also know that this cannot be the only step forward in taking real steps. What else can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u344	Sure. Blokhuis has been working very intensively for a long time with all the partners needed to do more about lifestyle prevention. It is therefore a question of promoting movement, which is to a large extent communication and removing barriers to movement. This is done, among other things, in collaboration with municipalities. There are many measures that build on the Prevention Agreement. I think it is right that a further letter should deal with this issue in detail. By the way, I had done so a little more in this letter than usual. I will ask Blokhuis for a further letter to explain in detail what he is doing in terms of prevention and lifestyle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u345	Yes. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u346	I have one final question. This is the result of my expectation that the Prime Minister said at the very beginning of the introduction that zoonoses and corona would be discussed and then zoonoses and non-corona. I think there were two separate lines mentioned. I'm curious what you're going to say about the heading "zoonosis and corona."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u347	I hate to say it, but the Prime Minister was equally mistaken, because you had not asked a question about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u348	But if he had, he would have answered him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u349	Sure. But you would have asked questions about zoonoses in broad terms and I would have to acknowledge my superior in colleague Van Ark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u350	Then it comes back, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u351	It would have been okay, because it's always good to talk about zoonoses and corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u352	To freestyle, even without any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u353	In that respect, it is not a problem to start without our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u354	I feel challenged for another time. Mr Veldman asks how complete the figures are on the dashboard. These figures are always as complete and up-to-date as possible. The dashboard is updated every day shortly after publication of the RIVM figures. Some figures, such as test results and hospital figures, have some kind of a delay in reporting from one to a few days. In the test results, you know that. There, approximately 85% of the reports are reported to RIVM within 58 hours. As far as the daily figures of the number of positive tested persons are concerned, there have been a number of IT failures over the past period, even today. We know that. I explained that last time. It has to do with various IT systems that were not necessarily developed for this purpose, but are now being used and need to function better. All kinds of actions have been put in place to strengthen that IT landscape. In any case, it is a good idea not only to look at these contamination rates over a longer period of time, for example a week. Then you'd be much better off comparing the trend. That's what we're doing. Mrs. Diertens asks how you can suddenly be logged out of the CoronaMelder. That happens occasionally, I understand. It can happen if the user turns off bluetooth himself. It can also happen especially on Android.............................................................................................................................................................. In the latest version for Android, people with this notification get a message that they can customize their battery settings to fix this. The CoronaMelder helpdesk informs me that the problem with being inactive from CoronaMelder is not common. Additional information about what to do if the CoronaMelder indicates not to be active, will be added to the frequently asked questions on coronamelder.nl. So much for the help desk. Then Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Staaij asked what the effect of the oral cap was. We have had that debate quite often. We said, "Well, actually, you have to see it so that all the bits help." Especially in a situation with a high level of infection, there are a lot of things added up that can best help to reduce the risk of infection with each other. That certainly justifies the legal obligation. We initially started with an urgent opinion. We are fortunate to see that more and more people are following this urgent advice, but we have already, together with the Chamber, pulled that button. So we come to the legal obligation, which will enter into force on 1 December. I would like to send the ministerial arrangement to your Chamber tomorrow. Then, as you forced, goes into the front page period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u355	I'd like to hear how many questions you have to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u356	I saved the best for the last one, Mr. Chairman. This is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u357	Oh, that's great. Mr Van Haga, one brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u358	I'll be brief. A lot of people are worried about the duty to protect their mouth. The Dutch order of lawyers has said that it is not legally possible, the RIVM has said that the effect is negligible and that it gives false safety, TU Delft has said that mouth caps do not work, the immunologist dr.ir. Carla Peeters has indicated that they can even cause medical damage. Mouth caps cause infections in 72% of cases. Substances mouth caps can even increase the number of infections. Is this not enough argument not to go into a duty, but simply to stick with an urgent opinion? Probably 80% of the population is already working on such a mouth cover, so I don't think that extra 20% matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u359	This debate is not entirely the first time. Initially, as a cabinet, we decided to opt for an urgent opinion. We chose urgent advice in all places where you can't see heaven. That was the wording at the time. It was soon added: or if you want to see the sky very quickly. In any case, it was urgent advice: make sure you wear a mouth cap in all those places where you are inside. That was the brief summary. The urgent opinion was then discussed. What if an employee of the supermarket is filling boxes and there's someone in his neck aerosoling? In the meantime, as a supermarket employee, you can't tell the person behind you to wear a mask, because it's an urgent advice. At that time, the obligation does not apply. Failure to apply an obligation can lead to the failure of part of society and part of society. That works on its own undermining. Then we said: let's kill the flag completely; let's just choose the legal obligation. Then it is perfectly clear to everyone and can be maintained on it. That's very wise. Is there sufficient scientific evidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u360	Mr President, this really is not the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u361	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u362	My question is about the health risks that are being increased. Public health is deteriorating as a result of the introduction of a mouth cap. Can you go into that? Have you taken this into account in the decision to impose a protective cap?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u363	There are studies that indicate that it can lead to false safety. That is, of course, true. We've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u364	But that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u365	Are there any studies that say it is harmful to public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u366	Yeah, that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u367	I honestly don't believe that. There are studies that say that it could contribute to some extent. We have translated that into: it could help something. A lot of little bits added together, especially at a high level of contamination...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u368	Mr President, I am going to put the question in writing. There's no point in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u369	You're not getting along. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u370	What if people have health problems and have trouble wearing a mouth cap for that reason? Or people with disabilities? They now read on the government website that it is an urgent advice and that they do not have to wear it. They don't even have to have proof that it's true. How do we proceed with these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u371	That's a fair question. For those people, we must make sure that it is clear whether it is true of them. When introducing the oral cap, there will be an exception for people with disabilities or illnesses which prevent them from wearing or putting on a mouth cap. That is the case with the urgent opinion. These are people who are physically unable to do so and people who are thereby hindered in their health, for example because they have lung disease. It also involves people who are severely disturbed by it, for example people with intellectual disabilities or people who are dependent on non-verbal communication, such as lip-reading. When such a limitation is visible, a boa knows that a mouth cap is not mandatory. However, many limitations are invisible. A boa can ask people to prove they're exempt. We'll help them with that. We do this together with client and patient organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u372	But for now, just to get it all straightened out. Suppose you have such a limitation and don't want to wear a mask for that reason. Now you can say to the boa "sorry, but in my case I shouldn't wear it." Is that possible in the future, or does someone have to have an explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u373	Something else. It has been very easy so far: you could just download it and print it out. This also presents enforcement problems. That's what makes it so easy. So we make a card that people can obtain through their provider or client organisation, that they can carry with them and that says they are excluded. In itself, that ticket isn't evidence, it's a tool. We will also inform people about other ways in which they can show the exception, such as showing medication or a statement from the supervisor. We will communicate widely to boas, shop staff and also to websites that exclude those people. How exactly we will do that, we are currently discussing it with client organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u374	But it'll come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u375	Thank you for that, because I notice that there are a lot of questions about that. I hope you will be able to communicate this clearly in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u376	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u377	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u378	Thank you, Mr President. I have been given a number of questions from your Chamber in the area of regular care and in the area of the people who work in care. Questions have also been asked about the zoonoses structure. Let me start with the first point, the regular care and all the related issues. Very carefully, the number of covid patients in the hospitals is falling. That is, of course, positive. But it has been said many times today: we cannot cheer too soon. The flat graphs we see do not always reflect the reality of the day in the hospitals themselves. On the ic's we still do not see a clear decline, while we do see that the covid patients now have to stay longer on the ic's. The people who are on the ICU and who are already really overburdened are still seeing the workload. And we also need to look at the whole picture of care. Your Chamber has also considered this in the various contributions today. Your Chamber has rightly noted that the focus should also be on caring for regular patients, the non-covid patients. Due to the enormous pressure on care, because of covid................................................................................................................................................................. The situation is different from that in March and also differs from one region to another, but if you look at the national average, you can see that about 30% of the regular care has been postponed and that this has been even more so in some regions. There is, as the NZa calls it, a reservoir of deferred care building. That reservoir consists of people, people who need care, people who would have called the doorbell at another time, people who suffer from it very much, and people, as Mr Wilders said, who sometimes also suffer from it. There are also concerns about those missed references, because they are patients we do not know yet. At present, 30,000 fewer people are referred to the hospital every week than normal. In the first wave, as we saw last summer, about 800,000 references were missed. Now we're out of the million. So although we have been able to maintain more regular care at this stage than during the first wave, that is a concern. There are people who may have passed on the complaints themselves, but there are also people who did not dare to go to the doctor. The Prime Minister also said it, and it was also said at the press conference: the most important thing is that people know that they can always contact the general practitioner or the treatment person, so that there can be a medical consideration whether you can be helped or not. Mr. Chairman. As you know, our people in the care sector are doing everything they can to ensure that regular care continues as much as possible. If that is not possible and the regular care needs to be scaled down, we want to ensure that the care that is really necessary can continue. This concerns acute care, for example traffic accidents. But it is also critically planned care, for example cancer treatments. You can't postpone it or delay it for long, because it causes health damage. There should also be no regional differences. It is precisely in order to make the playing field for patients, for people working in care and for healthcare institutions equal, that we presented the temporary policy framework for ensuring acute care on 23 October. That's what everybody's been working on. I shall mention the measures. I think that is important because there are sometimes misunderstandings about it. They have to deal with each other, and they are now being carried out in full measure. It starts with the patient spread. The National Coordination Centre for Patients Spreading I call it Ernst Kuipers' homely "club," then we all know about who it is, and we now have more perseverance in the distribution of covid patients across the country. Once the LCPS has a national picture of the number of available beds, the ROAZ regions, in which the healthcare institutions work together, will be told how many covid patients they can expect in the next week. They can then plan ahead and scale up with the covid care, and possibly scale down on the regular care. It is really important to say here that the supervisors, the IGJ and the NZa, ensure that the quality and safety of care are guaranteed. And then comes the crucial point. If you then have to scale down, then you have to know very clearly which care you should not scale down. That's where the framework of the Federation of Medical Specialists comes in. That's the tool for care institutions and for care professionals. It means doctors can make choices. This choice is made on the basis of irreparable health damage and/or loss of life years. The third measure is cooperation. If all these healthcare providers work together to the maximum, both in hospitals and in the first line with the general practitioners, the vvt and the district nurse, then they can cope better with the pressure of covid care. For example, you can think of general practitioners working with hospitals who make arrangements with home care to let people go home early or to treat them differently if they are ill. The fourth of the five is that we know how many patients are coming and how many beds are available. Data are collected for this purpose. The fifth is the money. It is really important that healthcare providers have the confidence that money is available to implement the measures. That's what the hospitals and the health insurance companies are talking about. We also have the financial support from VWS for hospitals, such as the contribution of 300 million for the expansion of the ic-beds. Mr. Chairman. Everything is aimed at keeping the care on its feet, to prevent the delay of regular care as much as possible and to prevent health damage for patients due to delay. And even if there are strict criteria to see what is safe and responsible, it can cause people incredible pain, sorrow and uncertainty if surgery is delayed, sometimes even for the second time. I can't rule that out. That also leads me to point out that not everything is workable. We have launched many actions, but there are also limits to what we and our healthcare professionals can do. As much as we'd like to, we won't be able to just add a lot of extra people, and that's often the bottleneck. We do have stuff; we do have beds; we do have buildings. But it's about people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u379	This is the biggest drama of the past year. We are rightly talking a lot here about corona and corona patients. I have said it before: of course they must be given the best possible care. But behind it is a group of people who have not been referred to the specialist in the hospital, when they should have. We know by now that those are 1 million people. And they're not just people. Even in oncology for the people at home: that's if you have cancer there are 25% fewer people referred. It's not about getting your knee hurt, no matter how bad that can be, but it's about oncology. I'm sticking to my first question. I have already asked the Prime Minister this question, because I believe that the Netherlands has the right to know. Especially in the first wave the regular care was almost completely abolished or postponed. How many lives did this cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u380	That's not easy to say. RIVM looks at the effects of the disappearance of regular care by COVID-19. In December they will publish a publication on this subject. They then try to assess the potential health damage caused by the loss of part of the regular care. The second thing I can tell Mr Wilders is that RIVM will publish the Corona-Inclusive Public Health Future Recognition at the end of next week, on 27 November. The RIVM also discusses the health effects of scaling down and stopping. The RIVM is based on the data from the first wave. Furthermore, we have asked the NZa to dive into these figures. They started working with those 800,000 people last summer. How much of that concern was a passing question? How much of that care is harmful in the long term if people are late or late? Those tests are still ongoing. I do not have a clear answer to that here and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u381	But the Netherlands does get an answer to the question of how many lives this cost. If you can confirm that, whether it's next week or in two weeks. I want to know that number too, no matter how uncomfortable. We keep track of how many people die of corona every day; however sad that may be. I just want to know how many lives this has cost. Every human life is too much, but I want to know. I hope I can interpret you in such a way that you're going to tell us. Mr President, if I may, I have two other questions. The first question concerns the health premium. I think it is unsellable whether it has something to do with each other or not that 1 million people have not been cared for or have been cared for too late, but now they have to pay more care premiums. I mentioned this in my term. I think this is unfair. How do you explain this to people? You didn't get any or less care, but you'll get a premium increase. I know you cannot impose the amount of the premium on the insurer, but you can compensate for the increase if you agree with me that this is unfair. Are you prepared to compensate for the care premium of the people who have been given less care last year, insofar as this care premium increases more than you did with Prince's Day... What did the cabinet say? I believe €5 a month. In the case of a large insurer such as CZ, the premium is already almost double. Are you prepared to compensate for this increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u382	I shall begin with Mr Wilders' first question. I don't know if it's possible to add up human lives in the end. I don't know, because so many situations are imaginable. It is possible that there really is death. I've heard those stories from the first wave. That's irreparable. That suffering can't be reversed either. It may also be that people come to the doctor at a later stage of a melanoma. Then perhaps there is no death, but the treatment is much heavier. RIVM looks at the effects on health damage. I say to Mr Wilders that we will send this to the Chamber. However, I believe that this will not be an addition to the line to the number of people's lives. Then there was the point Mr Wilders made about the premium. In the end, a great deal of care has been taken. There has been a shift in the care provided, because covid care asked for priority, especially in March. So the cost of care has shifted. It is intended that the scaled-down care will eventually be overtaken. The health care obligations of health insurers for insured persons are therefore still valid. The premium increase of 2021 is in line with the premium increase in recent years. So the premium doesn't increase because of corona. That was a very important touchstone for me. Several actions have also been put in place. So it does not seem logical to me, but it does not seem possible, to compensate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u383	The first point. In a report or a report, whether it is the facts or an estimate, I don't care; we also hear about the cost of human lives with corona. I'll come back to that later. I think it is right that I should refer a ruling to the Chamber. It is unbelievable that you say: they have been given care. No, 1 million people haven't been given any care. That must therefore be compensated. I shall also refer that to the Chamber. But let us at least compensate you for one thing, namely the following. It turns out that a lot of people who were on the list for an operation, whose operation was postponed and whose dbc went after six months, had to face their own risk in year one, in which they did not get surgery. Because the dbc expired in the following year... Suppose someone went to the doctor a few times last July or January and met his own risk. And suppose the operation hasn't been continued by corona and is now scheduled for February or March. Those who do not have the same treatment will then have to pay their own risk. That's really unfair. I hope, at least, that you do not want to compensate for the premium for these people not charge €385 of your own risk twice for one treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u384	Let me say first of all that there is a great deal of injustice in this crisis. I can't solve all the injustices. I'm telling you the truth. Delaying operations is unfair. When it comes to passing on one's own risk, I am going to ask Mr Wilders. But I give as primary as reaction that it seems impossible to me to go into the system to do so. But I'll be there in the second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u385	To coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u386	...an answer to that. I would like to say the following. Perhaps it is good to inform Mr Wilders about this. He indicated that 30,000 people had been to the GP, but could not be referred to the hospital. I checked that very well for him, because it scared the hell out of me. I thought that was different, wasn't it? We have no signals that general practitioners do not refer in connection with the alleged crowds in hospitals. They sometimes do apply other forms of care, because they know that it is busy. But we see 30,000 fewer people going to the doctor. The call made by Mrs Sazias at the previous debate, which the Prime Minister made at the press conference and which I heard Mr Wilders mention, is: contact your GP; let the consideration whether you should be seen be a medical one. I hope I can reassure Mr Wilders that this is not about 30,000 people who have been to the general practitioner but have not been referred to. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wilders asked: when can people catch up with deferred care again? That is, of course, a very important question. We see a lower peak in this second wave, but it lasted longer. In any case, I can tell Mr Wilders that in December there will be room for resumption of the delayed urgent care if the current R-value, the reproduction number, remains below 0.9. Right now, every covid-ic bed released is filled with someone who doesn't have a covid. If you calculate that and if it turns out that the reproduction number remains below 0.9, the picture is that at the earliest in late spring we will be dealing with COVID-19 care as well as catching up with delayed care. Then you'll slowly see that the relationship between those two is tilting. We do see that hospitals need to be scaled up in order to get into care quickly. We can also see that it is a model that I am telling you about here that it assumes that people will continue to work to the same degree. That is exactly the point where we are seeing difficulties now, because people are tired or sick themselves. People have sometimes worked since the first wave. So it's a prognosis based on a model. But I think the most important thing for us is that we help with sufficient staff. We hope that there will be no additional appeal to care due to any other external factors that are not yet foreseeable. You can imagine that this is a tremendous motivation for me to do everything in my power to prevent a third wave coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u387	I'll give you the floor in a moment, Mr. Wilders, but first I'd like to know how many questions the Minister has left on this section.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u388	On this theme three more, sorry, two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u389	Then I suggest you finish it first. Only at this point, Mr. Wilders, then it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u390	I told you a while ago when I interrupted the Prime Minister: my appeal is that you should hold that press conference. Not that Corona is over now, but you don't want to know how many people are worried about their delayed care. I get emails from people whose care has been delayed, who received painkillers because they were in a lot of pain, but can no longer take these painkillers because they have been taking them for so long that it leads to side effects. It drives people crazy. I would like to ask you: grab that camera, grab that microphone and communicate to the people in the Netherlands. There are a lot of them, more people than there are with corona in the hospital right now. Communicate what they can expect when they can get their care back. And if you don't know exactly, communicate when you expect them to get it back. Communicate it with those people! It doesn't happen enough, and that would be a huge help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u391	Mr. Chairman. I'd love to pick up that glove. Then there is Mr Heerma's question about a care hotel. Can a care hotel provide a solution if there is a very high pressure on home care? It is true, I say in his direction, that there is a great deal of pressure on home care due to staff shortages, even there. The same applies to hospitals and the temporary stay outside the hospital, which takes place when patients with COVID-19 can no longer stay at home or when medical-specialist care in the hospital is no longer required. Then you'll get that temporary stay outside the hospital. This also applies in normal care. One then goes to a first-line residence, an institution for geriatric rehabilitation care, WMO emergency care or Wlz crisis care. To be prepared for the second wave, the GGD's have developed a national scale plan. They have distributed the necessary national capacity among the regions. The regional plans will then be established in the ROAZ. That's what you're saying: then you've got something working in that region. This can be organized in an existing institution for temporary stays, but that is where you can also see the cooperation with care hotels. I think that a very nice example of thinking about over-systems, where you see the cure and care connected together. For example, there is the care hotel in Gaanderen, a nice example and the care hotel Maasstad in Rotterdam with 145 places. That's a really big one. Yet you can also see here that in every region there is a struggle with the availability of staff. So, as far as I am concerned, it is very promising and there are good examples, but I would like to consider whether a care hotel makes the use of staff more efficient, whether local or regional. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the questions that have been asked about the people who work in care. It has often been recalled that there is also a large deficit there. I told you. This deficit has become even more acute during the crisis. This gives extra importance to making every effort with each other to support the people who work in care and to relieve them as much as possible. This can be done, for example, by moving tasks that can also be carried out by other people, such as former care professionals as well as people from other sectors. We see this happening a lot. For example, some 4,500 former carers are now available via Extra Hands for Care. And more than 8,200 people with no background to care, as I say to Mrs Sazias, who was early in the general consultation we had of the week, have applied to the National Care Class. These numbers are still increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u392	I'm going to interrupt you. I thought the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS might have left for a while, but it's taking too long now. I think it's a little... You've been there the whole time, and the other way around, it's supposed to be. Find them and take them to the hall, I'd say to the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u393	I think they're working on the moving standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u394	Well, we'd like that, too. Yet here we are listening to you. So, thank you for coming. And yes, there's the other one. Proceed, Minister. No, Minister De Jonge, she doesn't need any help. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u395	Mr. Chairman. This really requires a bit of care organisations. There are other people coming in, not all of them qualified. You really have to think differently about the care and see how, for example, you can use the people who enter from another sector as best you can. This happens, for example, at St. Anthonius Hospital in Nieuwegein and at Máxima MC in Veldhoven. There they work with hospital buddies to relieve nurses of their duties. In Drenthe and Brabant people from the catering industry are used as hosts or hostess in the vvt. I think that is very nice examples, which show what can be done. In this respect, the VWS Ministry wishes to support people wholeheartedly. We do this through Extra Hands for Care and through the National Care Class, which I mentioned. We also do this by informing people properly when they register, because it's quite something you're getting started on. I also had an intrusive conversation this morning with a number of people who are in the heart of that corona care. Then you hear the stories and what it does to people. It's a very nice job, but you have to be prepared for it when you start. We'll make sure of that. Mr. Chairman. De Heerma asked Mr Wilders to have an interesting debate on this with him or the corona crisis jobs could play a role in it, as in education, for example. In the general consultation I was just referring to, Mrs Sazias asked if you could keep people coming in temporarily for a long time for care. I think that these corona lanes can provide real relief in the short term in the healthcare sector, so we have already called on the Social Affairs colleagues. They are not primarily intended to solve structural labour shortages, but, as people in the healthcare sector often say to me, it sometimes takes a while to get over that threshold. Once they get over it, people get excited. It is certainly a possibility that it serves as a stepping stone for a new job. We are also looking further at how we can give an impetus, possibly with a temporary extra budget. I am working with my colleagues in Social Affairs. Okay, let's talk about the care reserves. This has already been mentioned in the previous debate. We've seen a motion on that from the Chamber. I'm excited about the Chamber's assignment. We are currently in conversation with the Extra ZorgSamen foundation. That's one of the initiators of Extra Hands for Care. They look at the matchability of available people, guide them well and inform them about what they can expect. They will also excite the people who come in during the second wave to really get involved as a healthcare reservist. They try to keep in close contact with those people and see what is needed to maintain the skills and remain employable quickly. Mr Van der Staaij said that he hears nasty stories about the health bonus, that it doesn't work out as well as we would have liked. He asked what we could do about it. At least the window has been closed. We are currently taking stock of the number of applications submitted. I have indicated that I will inform the Chamber at the end of November about the number of applications and for which care professionals it applies. What we do see in the applications is that there has been a really generous request from healthcare providers. So I don't recognize the sound that the application for the bonus doesn't work out. What I've heard before are signals from people who say: my employer doesn't ask for me. Of course that is very annoying and nasty, but also in regular labour law it is not so that you apply for a bonus for yourself. After all, it's your employer who does that. We have set up the subsidy scheme in such a way that it is ultimately up to the healthcare provider to assess which healthcare professionals are eligible for the bonus, precisely because that healthcare provider has the best view and can assess it. We have also talked with employers' organisations about the advice we have given. In any case, I would like to say to Mr Van der Staaij: I know that the Chamber wants to know in broad terms what the state of affairs is. I told you, we're taking stock, because there's doubles in it. In any case, the subsidy amount granted is EUR 410 million at the moment. We will make more and more payments in the coming weeks. They're working very hard on it. Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Marijnissen also said that I actually tasted it in the contributions of all Members of the House that there is a lot of pressure on our people in the care. The care is being postponed. What do we do about it? For example, if there's assistance for people when they're through it, I'll just say homely. Of course, the organisation itself has the necessary organisation. Employers are obliged to provide healthy and safe work. For employees who are not able to contact their organisation, we have established strong in your work, extra coaching, for mental support this spring. This offers employees free low-threshold mental support. If you need more, which I can imagine well given the situation in which many healthcare professionals go when it's as heavy as it is now, there is a contact point psychosocial support care professionals set up at ARQ IVP. Furthermore, of course, it also motivates enormously to ensure that as many people as possible know how to find care. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Wilders asked about the financial appreciation of people working in healthcare. We've talked about this a lot. In the general consultation Labour market policy in the care we had last week, too, the necessary has been said. The arguments I have often exchanged in this Chamber from the cabinet side, over the oval, over the amounts, over the bonus, over the 130 million have been changed. In general terms, we have nevertheless raised a number of issues which I think it is good to say here, especially because there have been questions about them. I do this on purpose, because when I speak to people in the care, they say: please be honest; if there is no money, just say honestly that there is no money and treat us with respect. This was also discussed in general consultations. It is also generally choosing in scarcity. We are dealing with economic contraction. Despite this, it has been possible to maintain the state contribution in the budget. It has often been exchanged in this debate. I like to put it down here one more time. It is often asked whether we can increase that contribution in the budget, but it depends on the economic forecast. It is therefore predicted, adjusted and finally definitively established afterwards. That's not just any amount. It is an amount that is part of the tariff provisions that are made with the buyers of the healthcare providers. It's a paycheck. It's a paycheck. You could see this oval as a state contribution to the working conditions, where ultimately the employers and the employees together determine what these working conditions look like. I know that there are still collective bargaining currently taking place in a number of sectors. I have also indicated to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that, for example, what was in the report of the Health and Society Council in order to achieve a single collective agreement for nurses and nurses is a suggestion which we would like to pass on to the ESC. That's an interesting thought. But in the working conditions interview, social partners can also choose to tune in specifically to those low starting salaries. Because, and I was in general agreement with Mrs Agema, it's just not a big deal. Mr Hijink also spoke about this. I am not going to repeat all the figures here, but those starting salaries are indeed not fat. But there are possibilities. What happens if in such a collective bargaining agreement there is more to it than there is space in the oval? This can be done, unless there is a maximum rate, and then the healthcare providers end up having another conversation with the health insurance provider. If the health insurance provider does raise the rates, the premium will be applied to the reserve or the premium will rise. In the end, it is also an issue that is paid somewhere. That's okay, but it's good to realize that. That is why it is also a fair choice in scarcity. I am extremely pleased that despite the figures on economic contraction, it has nevertheless been possible to make oval space available to contribute to working conditions. And besides, at least that bonus, which is a lot of money for a lot of people. Mrs Marijnissen said, and I share her concern that it means to many people that they do not come to the border of economic independence. If you push that button with me, I'm gonna really like it. From my previous portfolio of Social Affairs and Employment, too, I find the economic independence of people and especially of women incredibly important. There's a lot to say about that. The amount that people earn is low, but on the other hand a lot of people have a working week of only 20 to 24 hours. There is also a lot to be said about this, for example because people cannot find good childcare facilities or because their employer does not want them to work outside peak hours. So there's a lot to say about that. I think it is important to have this debate in the broadest sense, but here too, the Economic and Social Committee has an important added value. By the way, I come up with a cabinet response to the report of the Council of Health and Society. In particular, the question of starting salaries is very much on the table. I also refer to the initiatives of the Het Potentieel Gakken foundation, because we are explicitly looking at how people can work more hours. Mr Asscher asked if we could give care workers the opportunity not to pay their own risk, so that they remain motivated. Then I will give a bit of the same answer as Mr Wilders' question whether you can remove that own risk for someone who has had to have an operation postponed. As sympathetic as it may be, I wouldn't want an exception for the people who work in care. The employer is responsible for the implementation of the obligation to provide compensation for occupational injuries. That's what it is. That's how care is organized. There is a duty of care for the employer when people have become ill during their work. The foundation IZZ decides to compensate for its own risk because it has own funds and its own collective health insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u396	Was that the last question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u397	Then all I have is a question from Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u398	I understand that's how it works, but the question was more: how do you feel about that? After all, many care workers are infected and become ill. Contrary to what is now prescribed by the system, it is in the interests of society to make it clear: we support you; it is important that you can do that work. From this point of view, I asked the cabinet to support and extend the initiative. That the system doesn't work that way in normal times, I understand, but it's abnormal times and there's an abnormally high demand from the health care staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u399	That's right. And when it comes to systems, I think they're there for people and not the other way around. In my view, Mr Asscher and I find each other there, but the system is not for nothing. Ultimately, it's about how you want to express solidarity with each other. Quite frankly, I am quite sensitive to calls for compensation in distressing or unjust situations, but ultimately it works because we all do it, because young and old, sick and healthy, poor and rich do it all the same. It may be a little administrative, but I still feel the guardian of this system in the longer term, precisely because it is for the people. That is why I have to say no in the short term to a request that I find very sympathetic but that in the long term actually... Because then I know a lot of other categories and then it doesn't work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u400	It's a crazy time to refer to the long term. You can differ politically on your own risk. A counter-budget has shown that you could do without it, so I understand the Minister isn't gonna say goodbye to it all at once. But we are talking here about the short-term and a special situation which means that extremely many healthcare workers have been confronted with COOVID-19. Precisely because the Minister says that the system should work for the people and that she likes the proposal, this would be a very good time to do so in the short term, without saying goodbye to the system, perhaps after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u401	The system has been modified in a number of respects. For example, look at paramedical care in the recovery of covid. You have to look at what works. Our agreements on care are based on the fact that we all do it, regardless of the situation. That is the way to maintain solidarity. That is why I do not intend to allow a change to take place there. Mr. Chairman. Then there is an answer to Mrs Van Esch's question about bird flu. She may indeed appeal to me on that. The corona part of this portfolio has been placed with Mr De Jonge, but I can tell you that many other scary things are conceivable. I sometimes get theoretical overviews of that, so you may address me to that. Mrs. Van Esch mentioned the avian flu. She said, "How many mutations are needed before it's transferable to humans?" We are talking about a virus that has been around for a long time, especially in Asia in poultry. The Erasmus MC scientists have shown that the H5N1 bird flu virus with five mutations became transferable between ferrets. Since 2012, no evidence has been found for continued transmission of H5N1 from human to human. The researchers stated that it is unlikely that this virus will spread between humans. I do not know how many mutations are needed in other highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses, but those same researchers showed in a second publication that the risk of human-to-human transmission of highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses in nature is very small. At the same time, we are dealing with an outbreak of avian influenza, as Mrs Van Esch pointed out. What are we gonna do about that? In any case, we have a joint roadmap that the NVWA and RIVM carry out together with the GGD work. One of the things that's in there is what people have to do when they come into contact with infected birds. For example, they must wear personal protective equipment, be vaccinated against seasonal flu and keep a supply of Tamiflu nearby. I can assure Mrs Van Esch that we are following the zoonotic risk intensively. That's what RIVM says. In addition, RIVM and Erasmus MC monitor the type of virus and the mutations that occur in it. If there is any indication that the circulating viruses have zoonotic properties, i.e. that they will switch from animal to human beings, the zoonoses structure will enter into force and the Minister for Medical Care will be directed. The Minister of LNV informs the Chamber weekly by letter. Or me? It says "the Minister of LNV informs you weekly by letter," but I don't know if that's me or the Chamber. I'm gonna have to check that out. In any case, we work very well together, because we have a lot of contact, with or without a letter. Fortunately, the risk is very low, as reported last week. Mr President, those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u402	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. Mrs. Sazias, a quick question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u403	I asked another question about the flu shot. Are there enough of that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u404	That's what the VWS Minister will come back to in the second term. I'm going to see the MPs now. I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u405	Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that non-medical testing can eventually contribute to the careful opening of our society;]] [[noting that there is no strategy yet for the deployment of non-medical testing;]] [[Considering that input from industry and field labs is necessary in setting up a strategy;]] [[believes that we should return to normal life as quickly as possible in a responsible way;]] [[calls on the government to come up with scenarios, including field labs, on how, in the long term, we can use screening tests for people with and without complaints to achieve an optimal balance between protecting public health and opening up society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Diertens, Mr Segers, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-716]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u406	Then there's the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u407	The second one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, in connection with corona, the House of Representatives should contribute to combating travel movements, working at home and to the safety of members and members of parliament;]] [[Whereas the opening of the plenary session requires a quorum for each meeting day, for which the physical presence of at least 76 members in the House of Representatives is necessary;]] [[whereas in its opinion on the functioning of the First Chamber in times of the Corona crisis of 17 April 2020, the Council of State considers it possible to establish the quorum in a digital manner, i.e. remotely;]] [[calls on the Bureau to issue a temporary regulation on digital quorum within two weeks, so that members can also register digitally, i.e. remotely, for the plenary session,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Diertens, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Esch, Mr Sazias, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet, Mr Kuzu and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-717]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u408	This must be some kind of joke, right? First the coalition runs away when it comes to a motion and now a motion comes because they don't even want to come to vote anymore or to get a quorum. That won't even be necessary. How about the rest of the Netherlands? People who just have to go to work when they have to work and they can't do that at home? How about the people who clean the toilets here? How about the people who work here at the restaurant? How about the messengers here? What did you think they could do? You think they can say "we're not coming"? Those are the normal people who have to work and who help you with your work. How about the tram driver? How about the nurse? How about the police officer? They just have to come to work. And then the VVD comes, and I can really get so mad about this, Chairman, and I say, you know what, we are MPs and we just don't come. And that with all the crap! 'Cause it's crap that doesn't apply to all the people who work here. This does not apply to all our employees. And you want another exception for the MPs? What the hell are you doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u409	The motion calls for us to be able to ensure digitally that the quorum, the 76 Members who need to be present in order to hold the sitting, is present. The motion doesn't say MPs don't have to do their jobs. Members of parliament can do their job in many places and in many ways. If they have a plenary debate, they stand here, as you and I stand here now. But MPs also have days when they're not in a debate, days when they just have conversations with people. Earlier, we just did it here in the office. And now you're doing that thing that you'll probably recognize through Zoom, Pexip, Teams or I know a lot of what instruments we all have to talk to people remotely. I have one of those days tomorrow, for example. Tomorrow I have no plenary appointments, no AO's and no notation. Then it's kind of weird that I'm going home tonight, to Winssen near Nijmegen, and I'm going to have to come back tomorrow, just to make sure there are 76 people in this house so we can sit here in plenary? It's weird, isn't it, that I'm gonna sit here in my room behind a screen all day and go home, so I'm gonna make that same travel move again? And that while the cabinet calls everyone intrusively: if you can work at home, work at home! A Member of Parliament can do that if it does not have a plenary debate or a general discussion. Then, as so many other people can, a MP can just work at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u410	Shame on you! That's what you need to do. You should be ashamed of yourself! You work here three days a week. You're not here Monday and Friday, at least, we don't have any meetings. Three days a week! That's a three-day work week. And you earn €6,000 net per month. To come here for three days! And then you say to the Netherlands: you know what, I'd rather sit at home flixing, because when I come here, I'll just sit here; then I'll have to come here and sit in my room. What do you mean you're in your room? You just have to work here! You're not gonna sit in your room and watch Netflix, are you? You just have to do your job here! Go read files! Go answer letters; I know what you're doing. And then you say to the people: no, the three days I have to work for €6,000, look at it, I'm staying at home in my nest, I'm going to lie at home in my nest, that's what I'm going to do! And all these people here, once again, the messengers, the people in the library, everyone here, they just need to come. While you're in your nest and you're not coming, ordinary people just have to do their job. That's what they have to do with the police. That's what they have to do in hospitals. That's gotta be the tram driver. That's gotta be the conductor on the train. And that's what all people have to do here. And then the VVD says: thick middle finger; we stand above the common people and we remain in our nest. You should be ashamed of yourself. I hope the voter takes care of this very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u411	It is that the cabinet rightly calls on us to make as little travel movements as possible, but otherwise I would like to invite Mr Wilders to take a trip to my home and come see my workplace. At my workplace I am doing exactly what Mr Wilders is asking me to do: to read files, to speak to people, to answer e-mails, to make phone calls; to do what a Member of Parliament does next to the plenary debates here and next to the general discussions that you should be here in this house. But for all the other things, you can do it at home. These are special circumstances in which we are sitting, these are abnormal times, and that therefore also calls for a creative approach to the obligation that we rightly have with each other that there should be a quorum to open the plenary sitting here. It can be digital. And if it can be done there for the people at home: I point to the other side of the Binnenhof, the Senate, then so can the Senate. That is what a large majority of this Chamber is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u412	I also find it a little strange that this is coming out of the sky, especially at this stage of the crisis with fortunately declining figures. I do not hear him at all about the premise that, even in times of crisis, democracy goes on as much as possible. The Constitution says in Article 67: in order to hold a meeting, more than half of the members are supposed to be present at the meeting. Aren't we going to be too easy to undermine the Constitution in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u413	Just for that point, the Senate has requested an opinion from the Council of State and the Council of State says that in these special times the particular choice to allow the quorum to be present digitally may be possible. If the Council of State gives that advice, why not do so as a Lower House, bearing in mind the starting point: work at home as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u414	"Work at home as much as possible" does not seem to me to be a good reason for saying that we should put the constitutional clause aside. An opinion has indeed been requested from the First Chamber, at the very beginning of the crisis. There was a quick response to that. It was about much more, but precisely about this particular part, the virtual, the digital quorum, says Professor Bovend'Eert, also not the first one, in the Dutch Lawyer's magazine, that you can differ on this. On top of this, the Constitution becomes too easy if we just say: you can register for a Chamber meeting from your home address. Have you also taken into account these criticisms from a constitutional point of view on this part of the Council of State Opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u415	Yes. Therefore, the Bureau is also requested to reach a temporary arrangement. As soon as we are back in a phase where you can say "there is no limitation on travel movements, there is no request to work as much as possible at home," let's hope that we reach that point as soon as possible and we can return to normal in this house as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u416	I share the concerns of Van der Staaij here. I wonder if the honourable Member will give a good interpretation of the cabinet's appeal. It has always been said that the opinions, requests and measures would not apply to the Chamber, precisely because we represent democracy here. Each time it has been indicated that, when you talk about a vital function, it is our democracy. No formal emergency has been declared. Mr Veldman refers to special circumstances. With that choice of words, you should be careful when using it to interpret the spirit of the Constitution in a different way. I can imagine something about the fact that the Senate, in the stress that existed at the time, made an urgent request for advice. But at the stage we are in, I see no reason to say: you must now introduce that temporary arrangement. After all, there is a fairly normal meeting here, three days a week. Members of parliament must be here. I am very grateful to all the messengers and other staff of the Chamber for all the work they do so that we can do our job safely. The same applies to the Presidium and everyone involved. My request to the honourable Member would be to hold this motion and not to put it to the vote. I understand that there are parties that have this idea, but I do not think you can insist that we should take this decision at this moment in the crisis, when you see how this Chamber functions now. Although I acknowledge that a majority of the parties supported the motion, my request would be for the colleague to hold it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u417	I agree with Mr Asscher that we must do everything we can to ensure that parliamentary democracy functions as effectively as possible, even in times of crisis like this. We saw in the spring that we scaled it down to just the weekly corona debate. That is a pity, because it does not function in the way you would like democracy to function. It is very nice and very good that we scaled it up again after May and that can actually be done as much as possible again. We can still see that there are days now when MPs have to leave their homes to ensure that 76 people are present here for a quorum, because on that day there are plenary sessions in which not all parties participate, there are AOs that are not all parties and there are not those 76. It is a bit of a gutter that, in times when we ask people to work as much as possible at home, we say: MP, go back and forth from home to here. So tomorrow I will travel from Nijmegen back here, just to sign, as we used to do, and then sit behind a screen here instead of sitting behind a screen at home. That's a little weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u418	That's what Mr. Veldman calls a gotsp. I deliberately stay away from all the qualifications of how my colleagues do their work. I assume you have nothing to be ashamed of. I trust you'll do your job your way. Only, in a previous life, I spent a number of years studying the Constitution and its spirit. I think you should be careful to say that we are going to interpret that Constitution differently tonight by a motion, by appealing to an opinion from the cabinet, which is not aimed at us. That requires a different discussion. The cabinet has not said at any time that the Chamber is no longer allowed to meet. That was explicitly stated in every expression. One time the Prime Minister made a mistake, then he restored it, standing up for the debate. I think that is also important, especially in the direction of the population. I understand the practical argument. There's no one too bad to say give Veldman a hotel tonight, if that's the problem. But this is not about the practical and I think it is dangerous to say that it is a gutter game that we are not dealing with this now. With the same argument, we could say: hold on to that motion, keep it in mind if there really is an emergency situation, where it would be irresponsible for Members of Parliament like you to make that journey. I don't think you can say in a spirit that that's happening right now. Hence the request, on behalf of a minority, to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u419	I will not do that, given the wide support and broad submission of the motion and also in view of the opinion of the Council of State on how the Supreme Court can deal with the quorum. Mr. Chairman. Then a final comment on the vaccination. Mr Segers will shortly be tabling a motion on my behalf to investigate the ethical dilemmas that arise when vaccination is carried out. You'll just be an employer and see that a fairly large part of your staff would rather not do it. How do you deal with that? I think we should have answers to those kind of questions. The important thing is that we keep room for now to make choices and not close doors. That was also my intention with the change I had with Mr Van Haga in the first term. The main point remains that we must strive for voluntary action. The main thing is that we must strive to convince people of their usefulness and necessity. I would urge the cabinet to start such a convincing campaign on the usefulness and necessity of vaccination. The fake news, the fake news, the ghost stories are here. I see it coming by every day and people are affected by it. So it's up to us to counter that, and we have to do it now, because that's the way to seduce people voluntarily, because it's necessary to have a vaccine placed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u420	Thank you. Let's clean up first. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u421	What an unbelievable shame, that motion. After they left, they just don't dare do their job. I don't have any words for it. Mr President, I have five motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to compensate for the increase in the care premium, as the corona crisis has already prevented more than 1 million patients from being referred to the hospital in the past year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that patients who have been unfairly charged twice for their own risk as a result of the scaling-down of regular hospital care receive their money back,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-718]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-719]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u422	Thank you for the Minister's commitment, but I think it is important for the Chamber to give a ruling on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that although it is positive that corona vaccines are coming, there can only be voluntary vaccination, i.e. that a direct or indirect vaccination obligation is excluded, as well as coercive or urge measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that regular hospital care has been scaled down again and that some of the patients have not had hospital care even since the first corona wave;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to healthcare reserves, to build up a separate crisis capacity of hospital beds and equipment, which can be used during pandemics and disasters in addition to regular hospitals, so that regular care can only be dealt with when crisis capacity is overflowing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-720]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-721]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u423	And finally, Mr President, and then I made it just in time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that hospital care will not be back at pre-corona crisis level until the end of 2021;]] [[Calls on the Government to stop the current government policy of further reduction of hospital capacity (35570-XVI, p. 14-16);]] [[calls on the government to invest in our hospitals to minimise the risk of hospital care being scaled down during a pandemic, disaster or attack,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-722]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u424	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u425	You have 11 seconds left. Thank you. I now turn to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u426	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and if I have any time left, one more question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas financial difficulties for entrepreneurs and civil society organisations such as amateur sports associations pose a risk of criminal interference and undermining;]] [[whereas this is normally already a major problem, but this is reinforced by the corona crisis;]] [[Calls on the Government, together with the Public Prosecutor and the FIOD, to investigate whether criminal undermining is increasing under pressure from the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a hand-out for entrepreneurs and civil society organisations with information on how to recognise criminal interference, and to provide a place where entrepreneurs and civil society organisations (anonymous) can seek support so that they can arm themselves against undermining,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Pieter Heerma, Veldman, Segers and Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-723]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u427	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some of the corona patients are too good for the hospital, but too sick for home;]] [[Whereas, for example, care hotels may be a suitable place for this group of patients to recover, but that staff shortage is currently the biggest bottleneck;]] [[Considers that these staff shortages may be addressed through crisis jobs, the Extra Hands-in-care initiative, and healthcare reserves;]] [[Considering that care hotels that are (partly) staffed with such staff can ease the acute pressure on both hospitals and home care, but can also be used for the longer term in a new crisis to quickly scale up care capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a short-term plan with relevant organisations of hospitals, home care and general practitioners to increase bed capacity in, for example, healthcare hotels and other beds capacity outside the hospital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Pieter Heerma, Veldman, Segers, Wilders, Van der Staaij, Marijnissen, Asscher, Klaver, Diertens, Van Haga, Baudet, Kuzu, Krol, Sazias and Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-724]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u428	I said pets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u429	You're not going to ask a question about a motion you're under?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u430	Yeah, but also in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u431	Come to this microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u432	We were also supposed to be under the motion on undermining.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u433	You mean your name's underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u434	That didn't become me, but we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u435	We can still do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u436	We're gonna fix that. Could I ask my last question right away? I'm gonna do it real fast. The Prime Minister could not answer my question about undermining amateur sport and promised a letter. This motion will help with that, too. But there was a motion on undermining in amateur sport last year. That's what an investigation has been done, what I've heard, is done. Could the cabinet ensure that this report for the WHO Sport will be sent to the Chamber next Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u437	Thank you. Mrs Diertens now has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u438	Mr. Chairman. I thank the cabinet for answering the questions. I don't have any motions myself. I'll sign some motions. I am glad that my name is well expressed. I'm glad to hear that the people from the BCO can be tested as soon as possible. I think there's plenty of room now. However, I think it is important to stress that it is a pity that the coming period is still very unclear for many Dutch people. The Jetten motion explicitly asks how we should scale down and not what stage we should go to. If a "if this, then that" scenario is missing, then there is still a bit of work to be done. I would also like to be informed about the experiments to be carried out on a large scale in the region, and I particularly want people to be able to get their freedom back as much as possible, of course in a safe way. I am thinking in particular of young people affected by the measures. I am also curious about the digital registration of corona vaccinations, in line with my 2019 motion. Finally, Mr President. It's nice to hear that the healthy lifestyle was emphasized yesterday. Out there for half an hour a day does wonders. I look forward to the cabinet's actions to include lifestyle in communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u439	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u440	Mr President, thank you. I've got two motions. We do not know very much about the vaccination policy: what it will look like, what vaccine we will get, for which target groups. One thing we do know: we need a lot of people to administer the vaccine. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the vaccination of the Dutch population with a COVID-19 vaccine is going to be a huge logistical operation, requiring a considerable amount of medical and non-medical staff capable of carrying out this medical action;]] [[calls on the Government to start selecting and training staff for the administration of vaccines as soon as possible and to inform the Court regularly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-725]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u441	I have another motion on large-scale testing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Slovakia, the United Kingdom and now Austria are moving towards active covidop detection in the form of large-scale population testing;]] [[noting that with a population test much more Dutch than now are detected on a covid infection and when infected people subsequently go into self-insulation, the spread of the virus is reduced very effectively;]] [[Whereas the wide availability of rapid testing opens the door to testing the entire population for the covid virus in the short term and that there is no reason to wait for a population test pilot to start;]] [[considers that positive encouragement is preferable to obligations;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with one or two municipalities wishing to do so, to launch, where possible this year, an experiment for large-scale testing, in preparation for national frequent large-scale testing, and to take positive incentives to maximise test readiness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Klaver, Diertens, Veldman, Segers and Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-726]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that increasing the financial independence of women has previously been formulated by this cabinet as an explicit policy objective;]] [[Whereas the Health & Society Council states that, in particular, caregivers with a small contract often find it difficult to exceed an income level to ensure economic independence;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to reduce significantly the number of small contracts in the care sector and to strengthen the income position of caregivers in order to achieve economic independence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research has shown that non-certified and home-made mouth nose masks do not help enough to reduce the spread of the coronavirus;]] [[noting that the government itself has established a consortium capable of buying billions of high-quality and certified mouth nose masks;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how to set up issuing points where people can collect......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-727]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-728]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u443	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that IZZ health insurance does not charge its own risk for 2021 in case of COOVID-19 contamination;]] [[considers that this should apply to all health care workers;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with health insurers and to insist that all health insurers do not charge their own risk in the event of a COOVID-19 infection of a healthcare professional;]] [[calls on the Government also to consult on the other vital professions for which such a system may apply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas source and contact research is crucial for the control and containment of the COVID-19 virus;]] [[believes that source and contact research should be in order and is a prerequisite for a perspective for people in a more normal society;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in the bi-weekly corona letter of the extent to which all the conditions for a full BCO in all GGDs are met, indicating precisely the possible bottlenecks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people do not comply adequately with quarantine measures;]] [[Whereas insufficient and non-binding support is still available and has been requested several times for broad support in quarantine;]] [[invites the Government to send a plan of action to the Chamber as soon as possible, in which both behavioural support, practical, social and financial support have been broadly developed, if necessary, in consultation with SZW;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-729]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-730]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-731]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u444	The Council of State warns in section 4 of the opinion at the request of the First Chamber that setting aside the quorum rule can only be done in special circumstances and in accordance with the other Chamber. The First Chamber didn't wait for that. I do not think Mr Veldman's interpretation that it is more practical in terms of train travel and that the cabinet that asks everyone is really not enough, even if it is not enough to come up with a broad majority in the Chamber with a different interpretation of the Constitution, precisely because we know that you need to deal with emergency situations with caution, whether or not you are present. We don't have one here. If that were the case, it would require a different debate. That is why I repeat my request to the representative of the largest party in this Parliament to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u445	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u446	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their answers. I continue to wish them strength in the fight against the crisis. I have one motion, which is widely signed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is preparing to start vaccination against corona as soon as vaccines become available and will shortly present a vaccination strategy to the Chamber;]] [[Whereas such a large-scale vaccination strategy in this situation poses ethical dilemmas for employers, health care institutions, large-scale event organisers and for the public authorities, which should serve both the public interest and protect individuals from unjustified pressure;]] [[whereas this requires ethical consideration;]] [[calls on the Government to be advised by an authoritative institute on an ethical assessment framework for the vaccination strategy of corona vaccines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Diertens, Mr Veldman, Mr Kuzu, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Wilders, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van Haga, Mr Krol, Mr Van Esch and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-732]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u447	I think the motion could just get a majority. I'm not ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u448	Just like that, yeah. Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u449	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and a few more calls. I'll start with the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that travel poses a risk of spreading and importing the coronavirus;]] [[noting that for this reason the Cabinet has decided to strongly discourage holidays abroad until mid-January, but makes an exception for the Caribbean part of the Kingdom;]] [[noting that the number of positive tests on Curaçao has increased and the regular care there has been scaled down;]] [[Whereas holiday trips to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom are not necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to discourage holiday trips to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Esch and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-733]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u450	I would like to thank the Minister for Medical Care for her comprehensive answer to our questions about avian influenza. I would like to stress to her that a pandemic like this can also occur in the event of one contagion. That's what we've seen with the current corona virus. We also said that the chances of it jumping from animal to human were very low. That also happened and we were too late in the process. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we must now focus on reducing the risks. The risks in the Netherlands, the most dense country in the world in which we live, are indeed enormous. That is something I would like to emphasise. I would also like to mention the commitment to prevention by the Minister of the United States of America. I'm glad he lets you know that all kinds of things are happening and that he'll come back to this in the letter. I would like to emphasise that it is our call to do more about prevention than has been the case so far. I really wanted to say that just to make sure that is actually going to be the case. In the ten seconds I have left, I will say very briefly that I will come back to the signals we have from the meat sector. We really fear that the rigged system will not function as it should. That's what worries us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u451	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u452	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply and submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the spread of the corona virus in recent months has often occurred in the working situation;]] [[noting that the OMT recommends making homework (also at the "vigilant" stage) the norm and making it part of the basic package of measures;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the impact of such a measure on people's well-being and to further examine the conditions under which infections occur in the work situation and what additional measures can be taken to prevent this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-734]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u453	On the subject of the duty to cover the mouth, I did not find the answer of the cabinet convincing. But I understood that tomorrow an arrangement will be submitted to the Parliament in which it is described and which will justify why this would be necessary. I therefore propose that we initiate the procedure to discuss this under the new covid law. That's the second thing I wanted to say. Finally, the motion which came a little out of the blue to come here from now on but no longer. That's quite a far-reaching motion, isn't it? I am surprised that this motion is actually being discussed in the aftermath of a Corona debate. I thought we also had a committee for the procedure of the Chamber, and a Bureau. I didn't hear that it was there at all. I thought it was a perfectly fair request from Mr Asscher to ask him to hold that motion. If that is not the case, I would like to suggest to the presidency that it should make an explicit assessment of the constitutionality of this matter. At the moment when all the bridges and viaducts in the country have collapsed and there is a state of emergency, I can imagine such a special measure. However, in order to set aside the clear standard of Article 67 of the Constitution in the current circumstances, I really do not think it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u454	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that human body materials can be stored for up to three months in a positive test result and can be used for research, and these materials can also be shared with other researchers;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that people are clearly informed about what can happen to their body materials and DNA after taking a corona test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that human body materials can be stored for up to three months in a positive test result and can be used for research, and these materials can also be shared with other researchers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that people are asked for prior authorisation to use their body materials after a corona test for research and may be shared with third parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-735]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-736]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u456	Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one of the objectives of the corona policy is to protect the most vulnerable people;]] [[noting that on average 11 nursing homes each day have been affected by the coronavirus and that 2.317 nursing home residents have been tested positively in the last two weeks, an average of a quarter of whom die;]] [[believes that we must do everything we can to protect these vulnerable people;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently make additional efforts to protect nursing home residents from corona contamination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-737]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u457	Mr. Chairman. I'm really glad we're finally getting research into ventilation in nursing homes. I understand this is a wide-ranging investigation. I hope that the Minister will in any case encourage and encourage this research. I also get an answer to my question about the flu shot. I had a motion on the care hotels, but Mr Heerma also had that motion. That motion is widely signed and I co-signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u458	That's the way it's gonna be. Thank you, Mrs Sazias. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga. You're the last. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u459	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wearing mouth caps has little effect on the number of infections and that this has been confirmed by RIVM;]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce a mouth cap in public indoor areas or anywhere else,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the hospitality sector has been disproportionately affected by the corona measures;]] [[calls on the government to examine how fast the catering industry can be opened up by using quick tests and good ventilation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students in colleges and universities have not received physical education for months;]] [[Whereas pupils in secondary schools do receive physical education;]] [[calls on the Government to return to physical education for colleges and universities equally;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-738]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-739]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-740]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u460	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u461	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. How much time do you need? Ten minutes? Then the motions must be copied first. Oh, you mean ten minutes, including everything? Well, I'll just take a look at the Minister of Medical Care. Shall we do 15 minutes? Yes. Then I shall suspend the sitting until 10.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u462	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u463	Mr President, there has been a brief discussion. I'd like the motion on part number one. Hold 717 until further notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u464	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u465	The President-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u466	Mr. Chairman. We have feverishly figured out what Mr Heerma meant by the report on sport and undermining. We found out. I can answer his question with the word "yes." Then the motion to part No. 723 by Mr Heerma. With reference to the debate and the commitment of the letter from the Minister of Justice and Security, I give this motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 733 by Mrs Van Esch, on the discouragement of holiday trips to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, I do not recommend referring to the debate. I would like to say a few words about the motion on item No. 734 by Mr Van der Staaij, on work at home. My verdict is ultimately Chamber of Appeal, but with an explicit reservation. The motion talks about the impact on people's well-being. There is a monitor running from TNO to the effect on mental and physical health of people working at home. The second measurement is now being carried out. The results will be obtained in the first quarter of 2021. This TNO monitor can be sent to the Chamber when it is ready. Then it's about investigating circumstances more closely. We're willing to explore what's possible at that point. We do depend on the data that are present at the GGD and RIVM. It is not yet clear whether these are or can be broken down by type of work situation. So I have to make a reservation here. Then we are talking about taking additional measures. I can tell you that Social Affairs and Employment and Economic Affairs and Climate are constantly talking to social partners about measures. Several activities and campaigns have been started and there is still some in the pipeline. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Vanzelfsprekend zullen we als er nieuwe inzichten komen uit de monitor, het beoogde onderzoek naar omstandigheden, die erbij betrekken.]] With those reservations, the Chamber for the motion in part No. 734. Then the motion to part No. 739 by Van Haga. It asks to examine whether the catering industry can open with quick tests. We work together with representatives of the hospitality industry on ideas and measures for the near future. It is really too early to draw any conclusions on this. That's why I have to discourage that motion. Then the motion to part No. 740 van Van Haga, on physical education, higher education, university education. Dissuade, because that can already be done, albeit at 1.5 meters. That's what's gonna happen. I have often said that universities and colleges use the fact that many theatres currently have large parts of the day available the larger halls to teach lectures at a safe distance. High school doesn't have to, because that's not where the 1.5 meters apply. Mr. Chairman. That is my advice on the motions that were my part of the debate. The others will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u467	The cathedral's not going up, I see. That's annoying. Oh, he does. I call the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u468	Mr President, thank you. I shall begin with Mrs Sazias' question, which had remained. What about the flu shot and can anyone with vulnerable health get it? We see that because of corona, the turnout for the flu shot is much higher. We ordered a lot of extra vaccines, but that was not enough for the whole target group. To ensure that we have enough for precisely the vulnerable group, healthy people between 60 and 70 years of age have been asked not to respond to the general practitioner's call, so that there is enough left for vulnerable elderly people. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 716 is the motion-Veldman cum suis with a request to come up with scenarios including fieldlabs on how to deal with screening tests. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 720 by Mr Wilders is a speech-expression and therefore does not seek the opinion of the cabinet. Then the motion to part No. 725, on vaccination for personnel. This motion calls on the government to start selecting and training staff for vaccine administration as soon as possible. I understand this motion in such a way that at least there should be no shortage of purchasing staff. That is, of course, quite right. By the way, of course, there are several implementing parties that are going to do the vaccination, it is not the cabinet itself that does that. We are, of course, in consultation with them on this. If I may explain the motion in such a way as to require them to select and hire staff if necessary, I can, in this encouragement, leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 726. That's the motion on the population test. I'm going to make a few comments on that. Yes, indeed, we would like to consult with one or two municipalities to do so as soon as possible. In any case, I think that is feasible in January, but I will see if it will be possible to do it sooner. But of course that depends very much on the operational power of that city or region. That's why we need the GGD, the mayor, the security region and so on. But I'd like to get on with it. So on this motion, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 730. It invites the government to inform the Chamber in the biweekly corona letter of the extent to which the condition for a full BCO with the GGDs is met. On this motion, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. I'll do it in the regular stand-of-business letters once every two weeks to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 731. It invites the Government to send a plan of action to the Chamber as soon as possible in support of the quarantine. I'd really like to do that. We're already doing a lot, by the way. I would like to send this to the Chamber in a good way in a plan, in one of the following progress letters. It should be noted, of course, that financial support is a job that SZW is doing. They will inform the Chamber about this as part of the aid and recovery package. So that's how the Chamber will be informed. Then the motion to part No. 732. It invites the government to be advised by an authoritative institute on an ethical assessment framework for a vaccine strategy for the corona vaccine. With reference to the debate we have had on this subject, I should like to leave it to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 737. Or no, I'm sorry, the motion to part No. 735. That is Mr Kuzu's motion calling on the government to ensure that people are clearly informed. That has already been explained this morning by the chef, Mr André van der Zande. He has also promised that this information will be improved, but we can, of course, adopt another motion on it. So I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. I am going to discourage 736, because asking for prior authorisation is obviously a huge bureaucratic situation. Especially if you want to go to hundreds of thousands of tests a day. Then we're really gonna cut down a lot of trees. We just shouldn't. That's not feasible. By the way, of course, we're working on that Body Material Control Act. We'll talk about that later. Then the motion to part No. 737 by Mr Kuzu. It invites the government to make further efforts to protect nursing home residents as soon as possible. I do not think that does justice to all the support that is already being offered and all the efforts that nursing homes are already making, so I am going to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 738 by Van Haga. It does not call on the government to introduce an obligation to protect its mouth. With reference to all the debates that have already taken place and all the debates that will continue to take place on this subject, I am going to advise against this motion. That's it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u469	Thank you. We're gonna wait for just a second, because of the switch. Mrs. Diertens, in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u470	There is confusion as to what the verdict is on the motion on item No. 731.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u471	Do you remember that, Minister De Jonge? Judgement is up to the Chamber, I hear. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u472	Thank you, Mr President. There were two more questions from the first term. I say to Mrs Van Esch that LNV informs the Chamber every week with a letter about the avian flu. So that has been corrected. Then towards Mr Wilders on the debate on the years of life. The RIVM reports on missed years of life. That is a model sum, because it is not possible to count the mortality of deferred care or anything else at the level of individual people. So they do that modelly. I would like to emphasise that, of course, we are doing everything we can to prevent mortality. That brings me to the assessment of the motions. The motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 718 is about compensating for the increase in the care premium. I indicated in the debate that care is being overtaken as much as possible and therefore also the care obligation of the health insurance companies, for which they charge the premium at the cost they incur. This is not a question of compensation and I do not recommend this motion. The motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 719 was about people who pay twice their own risk. That is, of course, very unfair if that is because an operation has been postponed. Nevertheless, I advise against this motion. It's incredibly complicated in the execution. Unfortunately, there are no simple and feasible solutions. The motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 721 concerns crisis capacity. I'd like to think about that a little bit longer. In the previous debate with Mr Wilders, I had an exchange of views on the care reserves. The motion that followed was adopted. There was also an exchange of views on ic capacity, which is now being scaled up, not so much in number, but in order to see if we should not have more ic capacity and clinical beds. So that's what the cabinet's working on. But in this motion I read that a kind of parallel health care system is being requested in addition to the regular care organisations. I think that's a little out of line. I am working on these other matters, so I think there will be a lot of material, but nevertheless I would advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 722 calls on Mr Wilders to stop the current government's policy of further reduction of hospital capacity and to invest in hospitals. We have no policy to reduce hospital capacity. In fact, every year more goes to care. Especially in view of what the cabinet is doing now, for example the 300 million for increasing ic capacity, I advise against this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 724 by Mr Heerma. I'd like to work on the plan to organise bed capacity outside the hospital for the target group, such as in healthcare hotels. I'll give the motion judgment room. Mrs Marijnissen's motion concerns the small contracts in the care sector. This is an appropriate subject, because it concerns the economic independence of women in particular. Mrs Marijnissen asks me to come up with proposals. I think that is a very sympathetic motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u473	What number was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u474	The motion in part No. 727. I think that is a very sympathetic motion. Of course you can say a lot about it, because of course it can also be a choice of your own to have a small contract, but we do see mechanisms. The Health and Society Council also points out this. We have also made this part of the SER process. Of course, there is a very clear role for the social partners, but there is also an assignment for the Ministry to work on more hours. That has also often been changed in this Chamber. With what I had indicated to Mrs Marijnissen, I would also like to give this motion a Chamber of Judgement. The motion in part No. 728 by Mrs Marijnissen on the issue points of mouth masks, I also give a ruling to the Chamber, but I would like to point out that the statement states that billions of mouth masks have been bought in. That's an overestimate of the role of the government. There are millions of them. Many millions, but not billions. You say "to be able" to buy billions, but well, results from the past offer no guarantees for the future. I'd like to have that reported. The LCH was established in connection with shortages of personal protective equipment in healthcare. So the LCH has a different purpose. If I may take that with me, I am prepared to investigate what else is possible in this area. Judgment Room. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 729 on no own risk for people dealing with covid. I advise against this motion. I would also like to refer to the debate we have had on this. I would like to point out once again that the foundation that has been able to decide to compensate for its own risk can do so because it is a foundation with its own equity and its own collective health insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u475	Thank you. That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-9.u476	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Members of Parliament. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of VWS and the Minister for Medical Care, and, of course, the messengers, the stenography service, and everyone, including the people who have followed the debate.
