ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the fight against coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Medical Care and the Minister for Justice and Security. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament and all those who are following this debate at a distance. We shall begin with Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by thanking all healthcare professionals, in Brabant but also outside, who are currently 100% committed to fighting the coronavirus. They're doing this for us. They are on the front line and deserve our thanks and respect for their commitment. I wish them a lot of strength and success, at the GGD, at RIVM, our GPs and our hospital staff, now and over the next few weeks. Mr. Chairman. Today, the cabinet has to answer important questions about the strategy that has been pursued so far and the strategy that is now being pursued. Because over the last few days, we have seen a very big contrast. We saw a Prime Minister who, shaking his hands, laughed at the problems while, on the other hand, we saw Mrs Merkel, the Prime Minister's colleague, who said that 60% to 70% of the population in Germany is going to increase the coronavirus. At home and abroad, the eyebrows were frowning on the Dutch approach, on not closing schools, on the holding of major events and on the non-binding nature of the measures proposed. It is good that measures are now being taken, far-reaching measures, historically far-reaching measures, even though we will only know later whether these measures have been enough. The SP supports the proposals made by the Cabinet, for example in the case of the removal of major events, the call to work as much as possible at home and the call to stay directly at home in case of complaints. But we are also very concerned about education, especially in Brabant. Children may become less ill because of the corona virus, but that does not mean that they cannot transmit the disease. The cabinet chooses to let children go to school anyway, even though parents are called upon to work at home. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister why he's sending our children to school, even if there's no education there, while those same parents are at home behind the computer. Is this a medical argument, or is this, above all, a pragmatic and economic argument? During the press conference, the cabinet said that lectures with more than 100 students should be offered online for colleges and universities. But tonight's letter says that all education must be done at a distance. I want to ask the cabinet: what exactly is it? This kind of unclear communication creates misunderstandings. I would like to hear from the cabinet what measures are being taken for universities and colleges of applied sciences. Are they locked or not? The SP would also like to know exactly what the status of the measures proposed by this cabinet is. Should people now see the calls for homework and the deletion of meetings as an intrusive advice or are there also actions when companies, associations or private individuals do hold meetings with more than 100 people? In other words, is there enforcement or is it an intrusive appeal? Mr. Chairman. The SP is concerned about how the pressure on health care continues to rise every day, especially at the hospitals and general practitioners in Brabant. General practitioners tell us that in some Brabant general practitioners' practices they have to work without protective equipment, that sometimes there are masks but no glasses or aprons. We are also told that in other places the regional distribution of protective equipment is successful. I would like to hear from Minister Bruins how it is possible that things are going well in one place and that in other places general practitioners are not. How is he going to ensure that all Brabant general practitioners and other general practitioners in the rest of the country receive proper protection? What help does the Minister offer if the general practitioners themselves are unexpectedly affected by the virus? They have a big risk. What happens then? What support can be given to these general practitioners to continue their practice? Mr. Chairman. What about the capacity in the intensive cares? We know from the figures from Italy that 10% of the patients who have the coronavirus end up on the ic. "Get ready" was on an advice to European colleagues from a doctor from Milan, an advice that I was faced with. Get ready. The pressure on the ic's has always been very high in the Netherlands. The number of beds is limited and the capacity in hospitals has decreased due to the cuts and closure of hospitals in recent years. What measures does the Cabinet take to ensure that we can provide sufficient care and care for all patients entering the hospital? Nurses indicate that they would like to work more hours, if necessary temporarily. Of course, it is against proper compensation with appropriate protection measures, and when care is also provided for their own children. What does the Cabinet do with this offer? What is it going to do to give the nurses who want to jump in now the opportunity to do the same? Mr. Chairman. It is also important that we have the figures in order. Family members with complaints, as we know, haven't been tested since this week. They are considered positive. We also don't know exactly how many people are being tested in the end, nor how many people have been cured. I would like to hear from the Minister when we can get a clearer insight from the RIVM into the exact course, the spread of the virus. Can the Minister also indicate how many tests we have in stock throughout the Netherlands? Is there a visual on that? Can the Minister make it clear if we have sufficient supplies? Finally, Mr President, there is also a matter of own risk. The coronavirus test is at its own risk. That's problematic for people. I would like to ask the Minister if he can make sure that his own risk does not apply when people are being tested in the hospital for the corona virus. It would be bizarre if we wanted to test people, because we wanted to know what the spread is, and those people would not be tested because it would be financially detrimental to them. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. We should not be naive and not underestimate this virus. Soberly establish what is necessary and do not be afraid to take far-reaching, even more far-reaching steps. But it is at least as important for the SP to include the population in the steps the government is taking now. We therefore propose that a comprehensive and rapid public campaign be launched to inform people about how they can tackle the corona virus together. Keeping away from each other, about how to deal with just the most vulnerable people in our society, such as the elderly and the chronically ill. Make clear what the plan is, what the stakes are, but also what possible follow-up steps can be. We need clear information and information at the moment and we have missed it very much over the last few days. Let's make that catch-up quick. That's our call. Do so in all sobriety, but with the certainty that we will not end up in the list of countries that reacted too late and too laxly to this outbreak. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u4	Madam President. It's too little and it's too late. For weeks, this cabinet underestimated the coronavirus. While countries around us intervene hard, the problems in the Netherlands were denied. For weeks, the PVV has been crying out for action, but apart from measures in Brabant, the government did not go beyond advice to stop shaking hands. There was hardly any intervention, because the problems were denied and trivialized. Minister Bruins said in January of this year that the chances of the virus crossing from Asia to Europe are small. And Minister Bruins wrote to the Chamber in a letter on February 25 that he considered the likelihood of the virus manifesting itself in the Netherlands to be low. He was wrong. He was wrong. What a blunder! Last Tuesday, here in this Chamber at Oral Question Time, when it was already clear to everyone that we were on the eve of a pandemic, the cabinet was once again no further than paper handkerchiefs. No action. No real measures for the Netherlands. Only today Prime Minister Rutte understood that he could no longer dive, that he had to brush away the image of the smiling, clumsy handshaker. He saw the whole world coming into action, so he couldn't stay behind. Mr. Chairman. It is insane, but above all irresponsible that it has taken so long. This has wasted valuable time, time we could have used to control the spread of the virus, time to get care better prepared for the harsh times ahead. That laxity, that laxity of not recognizing and intervening too late, I very much resent this cabinet. The measures that the cabinet is finally taking are a step in the right direction, but it is too little and it is too late. It is good that the measures already in force for Brabant are now also in force for the rest of the Netherlands. It is also good that events with more than 100 people are cancelled throughout the Netherlands. But it is incomprehensible that there has been no entry ban for people from countries at risk. Today, at 12:34 p.m., a plane landed at Schiphol Airport from Iran, one of the large corona fireplaces. There's another plane landing from Iran on Sunday. I ask the Cabinet and Prime Minister: why do you expose the Dutch to this unnecessary risk of more infections? Mr. Chairman. It is quite unacceptable that the cabinet should not close the schools in the Netherlands, as so many European countries have done ten, eleven, twelve years ago and rightly so. The fact that this cabinet is failing to close the schools is irresponsible and is playing with people's lives. A lot of people are very worried about that. The virus is everywhere. We don't even know all the people who have the virus and can spread it, because it's been tested very limited. So it's just the numbers that don't say that much either. The numbers just say who's been tested and how many kits have been used. A lot of people who are infected are unknown, or we don't even know where their infection comes from. Those are the facts. Does the Cabinet realize that people without complaints can not only have the virus, but can also spread it? This was not only apparent from Chinese research, but also virologist Haagmans of the Erasmus Medical Centre said the day before yesterday that many people who are infected, also nursing staff, can spread the virus without having any obvious complaints. "Distribute without obvious complaints," says this virologist. All in all, we can assume that the number of people with corona in the Netherlands is already significantly higher than the number of 614 we know. Probably thousands of them by now, maybe even more. Unfortunately, there will be many and many more. So go all the way, I'll tell the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then the care side. There is already a huge appeal to doctors, nurses and everyone who works in the care sector. I cannot stress enough how much the PVV Group respects all those heroes in care, all those heroes who are already walking on their gums. What can you do, so I ask the Prime Minister, to help these people? The Netherlands now has about 1,000 ic-beds with care staff. Of these, about 800 are already occupied and so only 200 are free. I understand that it can be scaled up to 2,000, but if the pandemic continues, and unfortunately it will continue, there will soon be a large shortage of Ice Beds. How many extra ic-beds have you already realized? How many staff have you realized? Mr. Chairman. However, we should hope that we in the Netherlands will not be faced with this terrible choice, as in Italy, where people have to make way for corona patients. Make sure the care is in order, I'll tell the cabinet. Are there at present sufficient protective equipment for the care workers? Can our supplies run out? What is being done to prevent that? Do we have enough ventilators? Can the Prime Minister assure me that there is no question of sending mouth caps to Greece, as the Secretary of State for Asylum, Mrs Broekers-Knol, suggested yesterday in all her silliness in the Chamber? Madam President. We are on the eve of an unprecedented national crisis. This virus is going to affect all of us somehow. Every Dutchman has to deal with this. Maybe not himself, but someone from his neighborhood or his circle of acquaintance. This corona virus is going to push us all to the limit, but we will also end up going through this disaster. Harbored, but we'll pass him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is shocked by the corona virus and I am thinking first and foremost of the victims and the pain of those who have lost a loved one to the virus. My thoughts are also with all Dutch people with whom the virus has now been diagnosed and I wish them a successful recovery on behalf of D66. In doing so, I would also like to express my thanks and appreciation for all the care workers who are working day and night for the health of our country. This also applies, of course, to all experts who use their knowledge and experience to find their way out of this crisis as quickly as possible. In the Netherlands, we can rejoice in the strength of our healthcare system, the quality of our science and the independence of our institutions. However, I understand that people also have doubts about what should be the right approach now. People at home, of course, also look at what happens in other countries. They see Austria tightening up border controls with Italy, which, from tomorrow, Czech Republic controls at 11 border crossings with Germany and Austria, and Denmark has decided to remove air traffic to and from risk areas. People then wonder why the Netherlands does not take all these measures. Are these other countries going too far or are we not doing enough as the Netherlands? I get that question. I myself live five kilometers from the German border. Why would my situation differ from that of someone who lives a few minutes away, on the other side of an imaginary line on the map? Today, the cabinet shows that it takes these concerns seriously with the announcement of an additional package of measures. These measures are unique to our situation and are now more in line with the rest of Europe. The cabinet also shows confidence in the scientists and health experts and to involve everyone in this fight to contain this virus. That can therefore count on the support of my group, but I also have a number of questions. First of all, on education. Why did the cabinet consider keeping primary schools, secondary schools and MBOs open? I understand the economic balance, but is it also certain that teachers and pupils and their parents will not be exposed to additional health risks? Mr. Chairman. Then the economy. Why didn't the Prime Minister's press conference discuss the economic consequences this afternoon? Because we can't afford to be lax about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u7	Mr President, could I say something to Mr Jetten? Surely he knows that it goes without saying that this means that those people in schools, those parents and those teachers, are more at risk? I also heard the Prime Minister say at the press conference that it would actually be very effective, good and also safer if we closed the schools. He had other considerations not to do so, but it goes without saying that keeping schools open is a very unwise decision for many Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u8	I understand those concerns, too. I think that both Mr Wilders and Mr Hijink have just asked legitimate questions about this. Parents worry about the risks their child is at when it goes to school. Teachers who have to work wonder. That may not necessarily apply to children, because they are less vulnerable, but they can take that virus home and you name it all. In my view, there are too many black and white answers to this crisis. This is a continuous balance between economic and social interests on the one hand and the mitigation of the crisis on the other. That is why I would also like the cabinet to explain in greater detail in this debate than in the press conference what the pros and cons are about keeping schools in the Netherlands open for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u9	People worry about their children, but you're right, especially about the adults. I don't know many schools where there are less than 100 people, so that's actually a reason to shut them down. But can you think of one good reason why schools haven't already done that, as in most countries in your beloved European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u10	So that is one of my questions: why are other European Member States taking a different approach? At the same time, I also understand the difficult position of the cabinet. The most effective way to contain this crisis might be to wipe out the whole country and quarantine everyone at home for weeks. But that is also a disruption of society, for which we have to bear responsibility together. So it's a continuous search for the balance sheet and the answer to the question what the experts are advising us at the moment. Is it necessary at the moment to scale up further? The question is also, in my view, Mr Hijink specifically asked whether a distinction should still be made between Brabant and the rest of the country in the field of education. I understand very well that the cabinet no longer makes that distinction for the other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u11	You're asking a legitimate question to the cabinet, just as I'm asking you. But I understand that if the cabinet does not come up with a convincing answer, you, as group chairman of a government party, are prepared to see if we can change that decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u12	I think we should all have that willingness on all subjects in the coming weeks, because we all have the responsibility to reverse this corona crisis. However, I cannot answer the question of whether we should go further in the field of education at the moment. I am going to listen to the answer given by the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the economy, because today, as far as I am concerned, it was not enough at the press conference. Our economy needs to be strangled, whatever it takes. This signal must be heard by the country, including the Prime Minister and his cabinet. D66 wants all scenarios to be put in place to help businesses, SMEs, but also large employers to get through this acute crisis. The help of the government is not a luxury, but can be purely necessary in the coming days and weeks for sectors and companies that are hit hard. Economic stability is now of the utmost importance. First of all, we look at our national health care. How do we ensure that hospitals and GGDs are given all the means to do their crucial work, I ask the Minister. In every crisis, the child under threat is: how are we going to get back to the normal situation as soon as possible? Does the Cabinet also work on scenarios for that? Mr. Chairman. Then there is European cooperation. D66 expects more of European cooperation between the various Member States and the European Commission. I would like to know from Minister Bruins what he intends to achieve more and better European coordination and cooperation, including on travel advice to and from risk areas. There is still much room for variation within Europe. There is also a lack of European solidarity. In Italy medical and material aid has been requested from the rest of Europe, but no European country has so far responded to this Italian request. How is that possible? Do you expect Minister Bruins to get the help of other countries, should they ever be needed in the Netherlands, if we are not prepared to show solidarity with the Italians? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the communication, because I still have to get some off my chest. Why could it be today, that serious tone? My compliments on today's tone, which does justice to the concerns that live in society. But what has changed in the last 48 hours, after jolly Twitter movies about the Prime Minister's handshake? Why haven't we taken the same serious tone in the Netherlands as our eastern neighbours in Germany from the start? Mr. Chairman. This week, the Chamber adopted a motion from my colleague Diertens, following last week's debate, calling on the Cabinet to create a daily coronajournaal, so that everyone in the Netherlands is properly informed at regular intervals about the measures taken by the Cabinet. When does the cabinet start carrying out these Diertens motion? Finally. I understand that all the considerations that are being made now are not easy. Let us therefore support each other, by questioning each other critically, but also by listening. There's no point in getting hacked up and getting hacked up, just like there's no point in playing political games at the moment. This is where people's lives are at stake, and the only way to get out of there is by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I shall now give the floor to Mr Asscher. Oh, Mr. Hijink has another question? I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u14	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u15	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u16	I'd like to check something out. The last time we received a letter from the government about the coronavirus, we received the advice given by the Outbreak Management Team from the RIVM to the government. That went wrong last time. Actually, I'd like to know what that last piece of advice is. We have no advice now, we only have the government's measures. I would like that advice to be sent to the Chamber as soon as possible, because I would like to know what has been advised by the OMT, for example when it comes to education. If that advice is there, at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u17	Does the Secretary of State for Medical Care have anything to say about that? It's being sorted, I understand. The minister's gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u18	It's important that we have that now. Measures have now been announced by the Cabinet. I would like to know what measures have been advised from the RIVM and the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u19	Then I'm gonna take a look at the Minister of Medical Care. It'll be sorted out and we'll be notified during the meeting. Let's just wait and see. I shall first give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u20	Madam President, thank you very much. We are in a national crisis that will affect every Dutchman, especially people who are ill or even have lost someone. I'd like to wish everyone who's dealing with that right now or who's getting involved a lot of good luck. We will do everything we can to provide people with the best possible care. Secondly, I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to all those who are trying to drag us through this crisis. They were rightly mentioned by everyone: the large group of people who work for us all and who step forward when someone else thinks "I prefer to stay inside, I prefer to stay home." My appreciation also goes to the people who, from the government's side, are trying to control that crisis. The fact that I will be asking critical questions on behalf of the Labour Party should also be seen as part of an attempt to do as well as possible in the situation we are in. The first question I would like to ask is: where, according to the government, are we? What stage are we at? In the government's letter, it's still about a containment phase, but if you follow the press conference, that phase seems to be closed, especially as far as North Brabant is concerned. That has a huge impact on the choices we make. The Labour Party supports the extension of the measures announced today. I also call on everyone to comply. When I look at the apps of the football and the water polo that appeared on my phone within one minute, I see that all Dutch people are immediately getting started to do something with it. However, it must be said that there is no commitment in the measures, but also in the communication about them. It is not enough to say: see if you can teach online. Because that raises questions for the people who are responsible for events, education and organising whole daily things. I would ask the Cabinet to choose a "no, unless" approach: no meeting, no event, unless necessary. Keep working at home, unless there's no other way. But be clear about that. It helps people. The impact is already enormous, but it is precisely in a national crisis that it needs to be tighter on that point. We've got to get rid of the non-committality. This is particularly true of communication about our education. I understand the dilemma here, I understand that it is not a light decision to close schools, but the reasoning that people are needed because parents have to work does not do justice to what is happening in education, nor does it do justice to the risks that teachers take, to the risks that vulnerable children face in our education and to the risks of family members of the same vulnerable children. Here, therefore, there is a great responsibility on the cabinet to prove that we see it better than all those countries around us where they do close schools, to prove that we are doing more wisely than Denmark, a country that is very much like us. The question I would like to ask the cabinet is: why not tailor-made work here? Why at least don't the schools close down in places where the contamination sites are obviously bigger? Think of Tilburg and Coevorden. Why aren't the schools being given more help in dealing with this? Why aren't there any protocols? Why is schools not offered assistance in cleaning and disinfecting the buildings? Why is there not yet a supply of aid to teachers and educational support staff? It also applies in particular to our healthcare system. There must be protective equipment for the people who do the work there. We know they're more at risk and they're more exposed. Here too, the cabinet needs to clarify the support for the people who do that work, the guarantees for the people who do that work, how we deal with people who do that work and who get sick, how we deal with the self-employed who do that work and who do not have any income support or protection when they get sick. After all, those are the people we are asking to do what extras. Any concrete step the cabinet can take here can help. It can help to support people, but it can also help to save people's lives when needed. I have the following questions for the cabinet. Where are we on the emergency measures to build additional intensivecare capacity? Where are we on recruiting and preparing volunteers? Where are we with the scenarios to ensure that larger groups of people can be isolated? Here, after all, there is a huge responsibility on the cabinet. In the limited time we have, due to our turn later than Italy, every second should be used. Mr. Chairman. Then the economy. Of course, it is primarily about health and people's lives, but here too, the cabinet needs to clarify. You cannot say at one moment "we do whatever it takes," as Minister Hoekstra did, and on the day that the cabinet takes a decision that affects travel organisations, hotels, congress organisations, self-employed people and the entire cultural sector deeply, send a letter in which you are satisfied: the state debt is low and in general the business community has sufficient buffers. That "general" doesn't make it right now. So here, too, it's time to provide support to people who are now getting close. I ask the Cabinet to make available the scenarios that exist. I ask the Cabinet to come forward with an incentive package as soon as possible. Here again, the burden of proof lies with the Cabinet to explain why the English, who have allocated £12 billion to support the economy and ensure that people keep their jobs while they have even fewer infections than we are, are crazy. Mr President, I shall conclude. It's a national crisis. This means that the government, but especially the people who do the work, can count on the support of the Labour Party. But it also means that we have a responsibility together to remove the non-committality. Let us now take a measure which we say afterwards 'that was excessive' rather than risk saying later: it was too late, it was too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u22	Mr. Chairman. The situation regarding the corona crisis is becoming more worrying every day. The Dutch are genuinely and rightly concerned about their health, their social life, about the economy. The Prime Minister could rightly say tonight that our way of life is under pressure. After all, we are no longer talking about an epidemic, but about a pandemic. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of DENK, I would first of all like to wish everyone who suffers from the coronavirus good luck. On behalf of DENK, I would also like to express my respect and appreciation for all those people in the care who are fighting the virus in the front line. This afternoon we witnessed the press conference which announced more additional measures. As DENK, we support these measures. At the same time, we very strongly ask the questions that many Dutch people now live with, namely: where is this going, where is this going to end, is what we are doing now enough? As DENK, we are in favour of an appropriate, robust approach, with distinctive Dutch sobriety, not half-hearted measures, but also no panic-mongering. Yesterday we saw a striking statement by the Chancellor of Germany, Merkel. It has indicated that experts expect 60% to 70% of the population of Germany to receive the coronavirus. According to the Minister, is this true? More importantly, does this expectation also apply to the Netherlands? I don't want to think in doom scenarios, but assuming that scenario, 10 to 12 million people in the Netherlands could get the virus. With RIVM's gross assessment of a 2% mortality rate, this could mean that there is a risk that around 200,000 people might die in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I have no words for the scale of this crisis, but the sincere question to the Prime Minister is: are we doing everything we need in the Netherlands at this time? To compare: Poland has only 27 infections and the Netherlands has more than 600 registered infections, but in Poland schools close for two weeks. In Denmark there are 340 registered infections. Denmark shall remove all flights from risk areas. Trump even announces an entry ban for the United States. Countless countries around us are facing fewer infections and deaths, but they are taking tougher measures. I ask these rulers how this difference can be explained. So the question is: do we do everything that is possible or should we get even more aggressive, in the words of Marion Koopmans, professor of virology, in the fight against it? Has the Netherlands been too lax in this approach so far, I ask the Prime Minister, as stated by a number of internationally renowned virologists? Is it true that the Netherlands wrongly assumed that the virus can only be transmitted if someone shows symptoms? Is it true that in other countries people from risk areas should be quarantined for two weeks by default, while in the Netherlands we have asked people to enter home quarantine symptoms? Is it true that other countries are testing much stricter and more comprehensively? What is the maximum test capacity in the Netherlands at all? Will the Minister finally give us a ruling on this? What has actually changed between the day before yesterday, during oral Question Time, and today, when we are in the so-called mitigation phase, especially in North Brabant? I strongly urge the Minister for Medical Care to address the following measures, which have not been taken for the time being, for example: scanning people at airports and at the border with thermal cameras and fever meters; the imposition of a temporary entry and exit ban on risk areas; closing schools in primary and secondary education in locations where there are certainly more than 100 people; setting up a temporary uniform visitor procedure for hospitals; no more visitors to intensive care units and regular visits of up to 15 minutes. This afternoon there was also talk about HBOs and universities, primary and secondary education, but not about childcare, yet a sector where there is an additional risk of transmission of infectious diseases. More and more hospitals tell us that available materials to provide acute care are becoming scarcer, such as gauze, bandages and all kinds of other resources. Has it been mapped out what stocks are in the Netherlands? Haven't we reached a stage where we have to buy and distribute medical-needed material centrally? If the coronavirus continues to spread, the capacity of intensive care will be hugely seized. What has been done so far to increase the capacity of intensive care and how much is that capacity increased? Again the question: is that enough? We heard RIVM say at the press conference that with summer approaching the virus will disappear. How does the Minister explain that in countries such as Saudi Arabia and Iran, where it is warm now, the virus is still spreading? Mr. Chairman. DENK also wants to draw attention to the question of how to reach as many people as possible with information. Daily press conferences have already been discussed. Sign interpreters at press conferences were actually the first time we saw today. I would also like to mention multilingual information, which is more than just in English and Dutch for the group of Eastern European migrant workers and the first migrant workers from countries such as Turkey and Morocco. Finally, Mr President. Tomorrow is Friday, a day on which many Muslims together perform the Friday prayer. Many elderly people, who are at extra risk, are often the most loyal visitors to the weekly Friday afternoon prayer. I would ask the Prime Minister, since he is Prime Minister of all the Dutch people, to call upon domes, mosque authorities and mosque visitors to deal with the measures announced. Mr. Chairman. In times of need, we must hold each other. In these times not literally, but figuratively. I hope that this crisis will eventually bring people in the Netherlands closer together. Because whether you have a migration background or not, whether you're voting for the PVV or DENK, whether you're Muslim, Jewish, Christian or atheist: we're all people and susceptible to an infectious disease like this, which we all have to fight. I am convinced that we will eventually overcome this crisis. I wish the Cabinet and all of us a great deal of strength and success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u24	Madam President. The corona virus is spreading all the time. It paralyzes the world more and more. The consequences for our country are increasing. We're in increasingly unfamiliar waters. More than ever, we realize that we are all small, vulnerable people. I would also like to commend all the staff in the care, who are at extra risk, but are committed with heart and soul to the sick fellow man. All the people who have to do with the virus, I want to get better. I would like to express my condolences to the families of the people who have since died. Meanwhile, the cabinet is acting. It listens to experts and to its best knowledge the cabinet does as best it can. Although no one here can pretend to know everything, it is good to have this debate, because we know more with each other and in the tightening up of the fight against this pandemic that can hopefully improve that fight. Yet many people feel that the Netherlands is always a step behind. The virus is spreading rapidly and the measures taken seem to be too late. I get that emotion. What is crucial is communication. I'd say at least always communicate honestly. Don't suggest you can control everything if you don't, because when people see you screaming over yourself, it makes them restless. So be honest about what you know and what you don't know. Communicate more often, a daily press conference. We had to wait two days for this press conference. That was too long. As far as I am concerned, the government can also clarify why we are taking these measures and how we are dealing with them differently from other countries. And thank you for the gesture interpreter. That is a motion tabled by our hand. It's good to see that the sign interpreter was deployed. Communication is also crucial. Madam President. It is good that further measures have been taken today. The RIVM indicates that the situation in the Netherlands is tilting and that we are entering a new phase, a phase in which we no longer have control over the infections and the source. That's worrying. But it also shows the importance of firm action. The capacity of our concern is not sufficient to absorb a high peak through the virus, something we are seeing happening in Italy now. The situation is serious. We can't be lighthearted about that. The call on the population to comply with the proposed measures cannot be sufficiently intrusive. You're not doing this for yourself, and not only for yourself, but especially for your vulnerable fellow man. Dear ones who may be old age, but we don't want to lose them. So I'd say, people don't you wonder, "What could happen to me?', But you're wondering, "What could happen to my neighbors?" I would like to address very specifically Minister Grapperhaus, in fact, following a question from Mr Kuzu, as Minister of Honor. Next Sunday there will be church services again or there will be church services on the roll. What's to be done there? Is he in consultation with churches to talk about that as well? Does he consult them on how to act now? I have a few other questions for the cabinet. Why isn't there another test? Because measuring is knowing. Not everyone gets tested anymore. For example, family members of people who have contracted the virus and have complaints are no longer tested. So there are a lot more people sick than the RIVM counter says. Can this be made clear in some way? Here too: fair information is crucial. RIVM bases itself on the principle of "the sicker, the more contagious." Mr Wilders already mentioned that there are other studies in science, which seem to show that the virus is already transferable before there are symptoms or if there are only mild symptoms. I'm not a scientist, but I'm concerned about this. Is the Minister aware of the statements of these scientists pointing in a different direction? On this basis, does he consider it necessary to further adjust the strategy to control the virus? As Mr Hijink van de SP said, people in healthcare are particularly vulnerable. At the same time, we need them very much. Let's protect them well. Are there sufficient protective equipment for the staff? What agreements has the Minister made on this in Europe? And what has the Minister been able to agree with the sector on the rapid increase in staff if necessary? What about the capacity of the intensive cares? There are basic provisions that need to be guaranteed. I am thinking not only of care but also of our food supply. This will require customization. How's the Cabinet gonna handle this? And then there's education. The communication that schools are not closed for the time being raises many questions. I understand that education organisations and school leaders are now behind this choice, but also here: can be explained and I think that this should be why we are taking these measures? Can schools take their own measures in consultation with the security region? How do we support schools in taking measures to disinfect themselves, to remain a safe environment? I agree with the questions that have been asked about flights from high-risk areas. That also raises a lot of questions. If a choice is made, it must be explained. Madam President. The corona virus is also hitting our economy hard. It is a good thing that the cabinet is taking action against this. I ask the cabinet: is it "whatever it takes"? There are entrepreneurs who need to be able to request a delay in payment from the Tax Administration, but many cannot currently communicate with the Tax Administration as a result of the hasty introduction of eRecognization. How is this gonna be solved? Which sectors are directly affected and which in the long term? What does the Cabinet do for these sectors? Madam President. In the eulogy of the throne, our King always closes with the beautiful words with which he lets the Cabinet and the States General know that many together with him pray for wisdom, strength and God's blessing. I would like to underline those words at this very moment. Know that many pray. And I'm in, because this is what we need now more than ever: wisdom, power and blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u25	Of course, I don't want to take anything away from those words. I have another question for Mr Segers about the schools. If I'm right, I haven't heard him say anything about it. I wonder what he thinks of the cabinet's decision to keep the schools open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u26	I have said a few words about it and I also recall that it is now known that education organisations and school leaders agree. So there has been consultation and they say: we support it. But it raises a lot of questions, and those questions are justified. Even if you make a choice that is different from the choice that Germany, Denmark or Belgium have made, you have to explain it very well and justify it very well. So there's a lot of questions about that, I get it. So when a choice is made, I say, please explain it and also give yourself the freedom and space to adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u27	Mr Segers refers to an association that would be in favour. I can also call you educational associations that oppose it. It was just on the news. So it's all gonna be okay. The cabinet must explain it, but what do you think? Again, it's not about virology. It is about what you think, now that you know that almost all countries in Europe, or at least a majority, have already done so. Many people, not only teachers but also parents, are very concerned about this. Does it think it's a wise decision itself? Or are you saying, as some colleagues here say, at a time of pandemic, rather make a decision that you later say "maybe we shouldn't have" than you don't do it and regret later that you didn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u28	Again, I get that question. The cabinet and the experts will have to make that assessment every time. We're here in this house, too, making a trade-off. We're together now, and that puts you at risk. Yet you stand here and I stand here. We ourselves estimate the extent of the risk and how sensible it is to continue with Parliament's business here. I'm the father of a high school daughter myself. Of course you think about that as well and you talk about it at home. First of all, I have to work on the experts and on the advice given. So I thought it was a good question from Mr Hijink, who said: let's see it. How do they estimate that? Those educational organisations are then on the table and a choice has to be made. I understand the choice that is being made now, but again, he also raises questions with me. I would ask for further explanation and justification and for the freedom to make a different choice where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u29	Could I ask you one more question on that point? I hope, with your help, we can change the mind of the cabinet. But let's say it's not true and parents are worried sick anyway. Do you think this could be a time when parents could individually take their child out of school without having problems with the Law of compulsory education? Suppose the school says "we shouldn't do it, we keep the school open" while there are big concerns. I think the average school in the Netherlands has 350 students. Suppose there are parents who say: I just don't want my child to go there at this time, at least not until 31 March. Do you think they should be fined for that, or do you say with me: let the parents at least decide for themselves and keep their child home without penalty until 31 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u30	I have not considered this question before. I think it's a good question, too. Every child who has symptoms, like us, is, of course, free to say: boys, stay at home and take it for granted. This is even less true for themselves, because children are generally not at risk, but for the elderly and other vulnerable groups with whom they come into contact. I would find it curious that when parents make such a choice very conscientiously, they can count on a fine. I think that we should discuss this step by step, really in good consultation, as we are almost doing now, with the schools and with the parents, very well. Again, please let us keep the freedom to make new choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u31	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u32	It is sometimes said that in a crisis, the worst in people comes out. That we're gonna be selfish and that you're just gonna stand up for your own good. But I called GPs this afternoon and people who work at the GGD. At such a time of national crisis, I am extremely proud of the country in which we live. A nurse at the GGD tells me that they actually have too little resources there to protect themselves properly. There is now a discussion going on in some places in the country to use protective material............................................................................................................................................................................................ You could say that's a threatening situation for yourself, so you're running away from the misery. But these people are moving on. People cancel their holidays, people give up their leave, people work weekends. I find it admirable to see how a sector that is already in such a difficult state of affairs is keeping the Netherlands running at the moment. From this place, I would like to express my deep appreciation for all the people who work in the care sector. That's what I did today on Instagram. I got a message back from people who said: it's nice that you're talking about the doctors and the nurses, but also think about all those cleaners in the hospitals. And they're right. It is about all those people who are working now, who make sure that we can do our job. This also applies to all the people who work here in the Lower House, who do not without risk ensure that the parliamentary process can continue. A crisis can bring out the best in us. A crisis must also bring out the best of us in parliament. Best in the cabinet. I very much appreciate the way in which the cabinet is trying to cope with this enormous crisis. With all the questions I'm asking right now, I'm not pretending I'd know better. I don't think any of us should want to say that we know better. I will reflect on the steps the cabinet has taken. I know that's what I do with the knowledge of today. I am not saying that I might have made another choice, but we still have to look back at it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I think that there is also a great deal of uncertainty in society that we feel that decisions are coming too late. I can't believe you're just chasing the facts. That you're acting just too late while people are thinking, shouldn't you take steps sooner? I am surprised to hear a press conference today say: these are the measures announced by the cabinet, but Brabant will also come up with a number of measures in a few hours or a few days' time. It is not the first time that we are dealing with a crisis like this in the Netherlands, but not worldwide. In 2007, the World Health Organisation drew up new guidelines for this. In 2007, we also adopted a new law on this issue, the Public Health Act. In addressing this crisis, I note that there is still a great deal of room and responsibility for local authority, while the Public Health Act states precisely that in the event of the greatest crises, in the event of the greatest outbreaks of infectious diseases, the Minister must take all the initiative and take the decisions. In such a situation, speed is the most important thing. This pandemic is taking so fast that every minute counts. It is not the right time for discussion and poldering, which the Netherlands is so good at. I would therefore like to say to the Minister: make decisions. You can hardly overreact. I would prefer the Minister to do too much rather than too little and too late. Article 7 of the Public Health Act states very clearly that the Minister can draw this towards him and that he can also give orders to the local authority. I'd like to hear from the Minister why he doesn't use this space in the law. A letter was written by the cabinet about the economic situation. That letter is very much about the macroeconomic position of the Netherlands. The Minister of Finance has rightly said that our pockets are deep, we will empty them completely, we will do everything we can to overcome this crisis. But that is about the macroeconomic situation. This crisis is also extremely complex in economic terms. We cannot, with additional public investment, restore consumption, because the whole point is that people cannot consume at the moment. So the instruments we have are limited. I have one very great concern: the closure of museums, the cancellation of theatre tours and the reduced hospitality visit send many people home, who often work in the broadcasting sector or on the basis of a zero-hour contract. These are not the richest people in our society. These people don't have buffers. These people are now on their own and have no income. How do we help these people? Our economy's gonna make it. We're gonna be robust. I'm sure we're gonna be. But not these people. These people can't even make it to the end of the month in the financial sense. I see that the cabinet is not paying attention to this and I would like to draw attention to that. We know from the great economic crisis of 2008 that this group paid the price. That is why I would like to know from the cabinet how we are going to ensure that all those people in the cultural sector and those in the hospitality sector who are currently, temporarily or otherwise, losing their jobs are compensated. I heard the example of an ensemble that had to cancel his tour. That's a $0.5 million damage charge. The question is not just how the future of this orchestra is guaranteed. This is also about the salaries of all freelancers. They don't have any money now. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. I wish the Cabinet every success in tackling this crisis. I would particularly urge the cabinet to draw even more direction and initiative towards it. And don't be afraid to make big and drastic decisions! I assume that the support of the Chamber is assured of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u33	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u34	Madam President. A week ago, we were also discussing how to deal with the corona virus. Since then, a lot has happened: the concerns have increased, the word "pandemic" has now really fallen, the number of infections has increased as well as the number of infections of which we do not know the exact background. Probably more people are infected than have been officially diagnosed. In short, there are many concerns. It is not for nothing that the government announced additional measures this afternoon, far-reaching measures. We support the line that has been taken and that commitment to these far-reaching measures. At the same time, I repeat it to my fellow Members: communication is also very important at this stage. In the explanatory statement of the why, the background of the measures, but also in the content of the measures, you saw all kinds of questions arise in all kinds of areas.............................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. The fight against the virus is based in the Netherlands on the premise that people are only contagious if they have symptoms of the coronavirus. However, more and more stories are emerging from people who have been found to be contagious even without symptoms. What's true about this? Doesn't that undermine policy so far? And bet the Cabinet that we can test more people on the corona virus, so we can get more detailed information about the virus's course? The pressure on healthcare providers is high, especially in Brabant, but also in other areas. The structure of regional contact points for medical devices is awaited. Can we speed this up? Are measures being prepared if the pressure on care would increase even further? Does the Minister for Medical Care also see room for the use, for example, of medical, nursing or care students, of care staff who are now at home or of people who have a background in care? In short, how can we proactively increase the scale of people who can mean something in the provision of care if necessary? One of the measures is to stop allowing meetings of more than 100 people. In the previous debate, we also talked about a balancing framework for events. I immediately noticed that there will be no major problems for many meetings. A lot of meetings have also been cancelled. I do see another issue for Sunday church services in large church congregations, for which a creative solution cannot be found very easily, as the Prime Minister suggested in the press conference this afternoon. Following on from previous questions, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice and Security, also responsible for services of worship, to discuss this with representatives of churches. And I can see questions coming up about mournings, for example. Mr. Chairman. An important question that has also been raised today is whether the measures go far enough. For our group, too, there were two questions in the chapter on whether the measures go far enough, namely education and entry. With regard to education, the government has chosen not to close down schools and universities. Surrounding countries often do this differently. They'll shut down the schools. Looking back, I found a letter from then Minister Hoogervorst dated 11 April 2005. He said on the basis of an opinion from the Health Council: "The Health Council advises me to close schools during a pandemic." We're also talking about a pandemic. In the policy response, the Minister of Health said: "I agree with that. I'll take that recommendation." My question to the government is: why is this opinion.................................................................................................................................................................................................. The second point concerns entry. No measures are being taken with regard to the entry of persons from the fireplaces Italy, China and Iran. My question is: does it not fit in with the stage in which we are actually moving towards a ban on entry for specific countries at risk? Mr. Chairman. We are removing all sorts of fringes, but essential parts of society must continue. I refer to care, security services and food supplies. Do municipalities and security regions now have an idea of how to continue the vital processes of society? Finally. Just yesterday it was in many Protestant churches praying for crop and labor. This is a day when Christians pray for the blessing of God for their work. Just on such a day you realize that we are and remain dependent people; even when it comes to corona. That's no reason to sit on our hands.We have to do what is necessary.But at the same time you notice that it also gives rest and relaxation to realize that we don't have to be ruled by overprotectiveness or uncertainty. I would like to say in the direction of all those care workers, but also in the direction of the people who take responsibility from the cabinet in this regard: know that many people are not only praying for wisdom in all the responsible work yesterday, but are constantly praying for wisdom in all the responsible work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u35	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u36	Mr. Chairman. Last night, the outbreak of the new corona virus was officially declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation. Today, the cabinet announced a number of new, firm measures to prevent further spread of the coronavirus in the Netherlands. They are measures that intervene heavily in all facets of our lives and affect us all. These are measures that we all need to follow up on, because fighting the coronavirus is something we will all have to do. Every Dutchman must take his or her responsibility in this, for himself and for his or her environment; precisely to protect the most vulnerable, namely the elderly and people who already have a disease. But everyone has to do the same for all those people who work in the care, police and other vital sectors. Mr. Chairman. I said last week during the debate on the coronavirus, and I repeat here again, that I understand and am aware of the concerns that everyone has. All the concerns and questions are logical and fit in with this crisis that we are now in. The concerns and questions that the average Dutchman, who also have employers, ask for good answers. It is good to see that a corona window was opened yesterday for business. However, since many answers to questions are unfortunately not yet reached by people, I asked the Minister for Medical Care during Question Time last Tuesday to intensify public information. What steps is the Minister going to take in this respect? I noticed that the national information number is only available between 8.00 a.m. and 8 p.m. I can imagine that this could really be a little bit wider. Mr. Chairman. Last week I asked the Minister for Medical Care questions about the availability of protective devices for our healthcare professionals. What agreements has the Minister been able to make with his European colleagues on this matter? How does the distribution of stocks between the Netherlands proceed? What are the developments regarding the availability of medicinal products and the actions undertaken in this area? The Prime Minister and Prime Minister indicated today in the press conference that everything is intended to contain the virus and that everything must now be aimed at controlling the virus and, above all, at spreading pressure on care over time to prevent a peak load. The questions then are: are there any scenarios now being prepared that can cope with a greater appeal to our care staff? Are there scenarios ready to ensure sufficient capacity in hospitals? Are there any scenarios ready to create additional emergency capacity? What is the government's response and what is the government going to do about the appeal from the concern that they are willing to work extra hours now if necessary, but that they would like to be well facilitated? This is, of course, primarily about our health, but this crisis also has consequences for our economy, for companies, employees andzzp'ers. Today, the Cabinet announced a number of measures to address the disruptive effects that are going to take place economically as best as possible, in order to address the problems that could arise. For example, many entrepreneurs now have an acute liquidity problem. The announcement of funds is good, but of course that does not mean that there is quick financial assistance for the entrepreneur who now has an acute problem. Banks, too, must now take on their responsibilities. How is the cabinet going to encourage banks? How does the cabinet monitor that banks are now saying that they are going to do so, but then not giving them at home at business level or putting companies in particular management? Does the Bbz referred to offer enough safety net forzzp'ers? Can municipalities pick that up soon enough? At European and international level, the measures to be taken to mitigate economic effects are being discussed. How does the cabinet ensure a level playing field in the measures and that there is no distortion of economic relations with other European countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u37	Of course, this assistance is not enough if people have lost their entire trade at one stroke. All orders are cancelled. Zzp'ers notice that today huge. Does the VVD agree with us that not only general measures of macro-economic importance should be taken for the Netherlands, but also measures to support sectors, and that the cabinet should provide incentives for the travel industry, the catering industry, aviation and all those self-employed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u38	Yeah, that's why I'm asking if that's enough. The letter sent this morning specifically refers to the Bbz. Hence my question as to whether that is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u40	And yes, we must do what is now necessary for all these different sectors. We are in a special situation and this calls for special measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u41	Much appreciation for this clear answer "yes." Then we conclude that the letter that was there this morning, which said that the buffers are large enough in general, is insufficient and that the cabinet should come up with additional measures. That seems to me to be a very important signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u42	Mr. Wilders. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u43	Yes, Chairman, to the input of the colleague of the VVD. Anyone can of course say and ask what he wants, but it is mainly a lot of technical questions. I would like to ask the colleague of the VVD: where were you and where were your cabinet and VVD Minister for Medical Care when months ago a debate was asked here and they were called upon to address the matter earlier and to take action? The VVD was the great absentee. Do you now, as a party and as a political group, not regret that you put it under the carpet, that you thought that we should not have a debate about it and that we should not take any action at all? The fact that we are now partly in trouble is because you looked the other way with your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u44	I believe that every party in this house has from now on asked the Minister responsible to do what is necessary to ensure that appropriate measures are taken from now on. In my view, appropriate measures have been taken so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u45	Now really breaks my clog! The Minister for Medical Care, Mr Bruno Bruins, said in January that he considered the virus to be unlikely to come from Asia to Europe. In a letter to the Chamber of 25 February, a few weeks ago I have him lying here in front of me, he says that the risk to the Netherlands, and then he talks about the virus, is small. That's a total denial! He's there on behalf of your party, on behalf of the VVD. Just denied it, a few weeks ago! It is not coming to Europe and the risk for the Netherlands is small. And now we have the fried pears! We have requested debates. Mr Baudet has requested a debate. We have tabled motions here and you did not give home! May I ask you this: do you not now regret this immensely? Not only could we have taken measures earlier, we could have used those months to get care in order. To order ventilation equipment earlier, to take care of those heroes from care, that there are more people who have worked there or volunteers or whatever. Now you have both delayed the approach in terms of measures and put the care behind us. If you're there, just admit it! Don't you regret it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u46	There is no point in taking measures if you are at a stage where you do not have to. Yes, you should always prepare, but the beauty of our Netherlands is that our care is well in order, that we have very good general practitioners, good GGDs, good hospitals. Then you're gonna have to take action the moment it comes. Not when it's not there. And yes, if I look now, then measures have been taken as soon as necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u47	What kind of an incredibly half-baked answer is to take action if necessary? You did not want to take any action at all! The Minister denied that there was a problem, while Europe was already taking measures, from Hungary to France, to England, to Germany, to Belgium. Each country took action! But until this afternoon, except for Brabant, there is zero measure taken by the cabinet. Nothing at all. And when it comes to care, these people are now walking on their gums! What makes you think you're okay with the care? Those heroes in Brabant are working on their gums; they can hardly handle it anymore. The G.D.D.s can barely handle it anymore. If we had started earlier, if we had not denied the problems as Mr Bruins did, if we had not led the people to believe that it is not going to happen in the Netherlands, we could have worked on them a month or two months earlier. You have such a load of butter on your head and you should be ashamed of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u48	I repeat, you must do whatever is necessary at any time. As I had the opportunity to exchange views with your colleague Janssen last week, there is no point in testing everyone. For example, he called for testing everyone. But there's no point in testing people who don't have symptoms right now. This creates a false safety and you also use a lot of test material and put a lot of pressure on all those employees who have to do so. You need to focus on what's needed and that's been done in the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u49	The VVD now says that if nurses want to work more because it is now very much needed, it must be possible. Mr Veldman says that if additional protection measures are needed, they must be put in place as soon as possible, and if more places are needed on the ic, they must be arranged as soon as possible. I very much agree with that, but is the VVD prepared to give the hospitals and general practitioners the funding to do so? Does the VVD therefore wish to appeal to this cabinet on the austerity line that the hospitals now have in order not to spend extra money, so that all these costs cannot be covered at all? How's the VVD gonna do that? Is she now willing to ask the Cabinet to reserve extra money for hospitals so that they can do what they need to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u50	Mr Hijink now links the general care that we have for our health care, that we keep it affordable and accessible, to an acute situation. What I believe is necessary in this situation is that we organise, regulate and therefore finance what is needed. This calls for special measures. This may therefore also require special consideration where organisations now indicate that they are facing a financial problem. But that's different from the discussion of how to keep our care financially viable in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u51	It is very important that if you are now asking for additional measures and extra efforts from the sector, you, as a cabinet, are also showing that you are going to finance them. If you do not, then you are going to choose whether or not they are going to make extra beds available, now they are going to put on extra ventilation equipment and now they are going to attract extra nurses, while they are in uncertainty whether they will still have the funding to do so at all. We made the proposal here last week: now guarantee from the government that hospitals will not go bankrupt because of this corona crisis. You voted against it. The cabinet dissuaded that proposal. But it is perfectly logical that if you make such heavy demands on our healthcare sector, you should also give the guarantee: do what is necessary, we ensure that it is financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u52	I can't imagine, I think Mr Hijink sees this as the same way that there are now people running around in hospitals who are the first priority to ask whether they can afford to pay for it. In my opinion, we have excellent and fantastic people in care, also good drivers, who are now mainly considering: how am I going to put my hands and feet on it with the rising demand that is coming and the rising problems that are coming to us if the growth in the number of infected people continues? That's their first responsibility, and fortunately they take it. I agree with you that if special circumstances arise, we must therefore look together to see how we can resolve these particular circumstances. If there is a financing issue, then we need to talk about it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u53	This is too easy. You cannot say to hospitals on the one hand "bring in as many nurses as you can now, so that you will be able to take the blows of this virus" while at the same time not clarifying whether the hospitals are going to get the money they need. The hospitals are on the zero line right now. Mr Veldman knows that very well. Of course, in an acute situation, they are not now dealing with "can we all pay for this later?', But they must know and have the guarantee and the assurance that the VVD, which has been cutting back on care for years, will not say at the end of this year: find out how you are going to pay it. They are entitled to security and they are entitled to know that the government is going to finance the extra effort we all expect from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u54	I have just asked the cabinet precisely on this point: if people in the care sector now indicate that they have the willingness to work extra, which is fantastic, how are we going to facilitate that? This applies to people who provide the care themselves, if other things have to be organized, but this also applies of course to the organisation. That's exactly why I asked my question. If that offer is there, then we need to use it when it is needed and then we also need to facilitate it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u56	Mr President, I was going towards a conclusion. I say again: let us keep our peace and keep our minds clear. This is something that we will all have to do and where everyone has to take responsibility. As the World Health Organisation said yesterday, we are all in this together. Do things with calmness and protect the people around you. It's possible if we all take responsibility. Let's thank all the care staff, all the general practitioners, all the people who run out of their way for the GGDs and all the people who work in hospitals through this way for all their efforts and compliments on their hard work. Mr. Chairman. Let us, above all, once again express the hope that the people infected with the coronavirus will recover well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u57	A typical VVD contribution in which we hear very clear answers about the economy and incentives. I agree. Clear words: let the market do its job. The central purchasing and distribution of scarce resources is all up to the market itself. The hospitals can do it all by themselves. Clear words. But I do miss the situation in the VVD's speech, which is actually the most commotion about at the moment: keeping the schools open. Since the VVD Group always makes its own assessment that is separate from the cabinet, I would like to ask Mr Veldman: what is the position of the VVD on whether or not to keep the schools open?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u58	If I have listened carefully to the Prime Minister at the press conference this afternoon, it has been a complicated and difficult consideration that has been carefully considered and that has struck a balance between: what does it mean if we keep schools open and what does it mean for society as a whole when we close schools? There's a balance in that. You ask questions about that and I have heard others ask questions about it. It's very good when the Cabinet answers those questions. In any case, I see others saying that even though education organisations had discussions this afternoon and supported this decision, that is good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u59	That is part of the reality. Because at the same time you can also hear the school leaders, who have made a clear call to close the schools. That was the morning news. We see a great deal of reaction to what was expressed by the Prime Minister at the press conference. I think there's actually three flavors. One. You say we keep the schools open. Two. We're closing the schools. Three. We await the cabinet and support the cabinet's decision, or the cabinet's advice. I asked very strongly what the VVD Group itself was going to consider. I assume that there are smart people at the VVD, and it is the busiest occupied group that can also make their own decision without listening to the cabinet. 'Cause you've already heard the cabinet, so there's only two flavors left. I ask Mr Veldman whether he wants the schools to remain open and that the risk of spreading continues or that he wants to take the pain and say: we close the schools for two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u60	The consideration that the VVD Group makes here is that we do not pretend to know better than experts. If in the search for the right balance the choice is made not to close schools, that is a good choice. Until proven otherwise. Until maybe there's a time when you have to make a different assessment. A balance must be struck between the consequences of keeping schools open and the consequences of closing schools. This should be reviewed, also on the basis of expert advice. If this consideration is now made positive in the sense that schools remain open, that is a sensible choice. Then I agree with the choice made by experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u61	There are also experts abroad. In my contribution I gave the example of Poland: 24 registered infections, schools closed for two weeks. A number of other European countries around us are really very conscious about taking a draconian measure such as closing schools. You can claim that we are listening here to the experts who say that we do not need to close the schools at the moment, but you are also saying that in countries where the schools are closed that risk weighting has not been made. And you always stand in front of a country that always looks abroad. The Netherlands is not an island, we depend on exports, the economy, etc.: international connections. In this case, why do you not look at these international connections, but stick to the narrow reality that exists in the Netherlands at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u62	It is very good to look at what is happening abroad and then it is also very good to see that there are differences between countries. There are differences in the phase they're in. There are differences in the containment of the virus or the limitation of the virus. There are also differences in how much is being tested at all. So to compare one-on-one countries and then to say 'there they do this and why don't we do that too' doesn't pass. We have excellent experts here in the Netherlands. They belong to the top of the world in all kinds of ways, especially our virologists. If the balance is then sought between the effects of keeping open and the effects of closing, and if that balance now falls to make the choice to keep the schools open, then that is a decision we have to take now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u63	Thank you. Well, very briefly, then. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u64	In conclusion, Mr President. A distinguished, renowned Italian virologist says to the Netherlands: "Don't underestimate the problem. We underestimated it two weeks ago and we are in a great critical situation." I conclude that the largest coalition party, the largest group in the House of Representatives, does not take the concerns of an internationally renowned virologist in Italy, an experienced expert, seriously enough, and I find that regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u65	A sad conclusion from Mr Kuzu. It would also give him a good pass to listen to the experts we have here in the Netherlands, who have been able to assess the Dutch situation today and on that basis give advice on the basis of which the cabinet then takes decisions. That is what we must do here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u66	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fight against the coronavirus sometimes resembles fighting against an invisible monster, because there is also a lot unknown about this new disease. We can now say that there is a real crisis, but it is also a crisis that we are going to overcome together. When I see what is happening in the Netherlands, I recognize a great deal today in the openings of both Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver in the debate. Mr Klaver spoke nicely about this: you see a very great willingness in the Netherlands to stand shoulder to shoulder together and not to go for one's own good, but to stand together for the common interest and for the interest of people who are at greater risk than yourself. That's the first thing. And the second was Mr Asscher, who spoke about it, said that you saw action and communication almost immediately after the press conference from schools, from sports clubs, from child care and following the advice. Mr Klaver spoke of pride. That is also something we should be proud of each other: that we are a country where people are willing to take that responsibility for themselves, but above all for the other. But I also have to say that in recent days I have seen and felt a lot of people who are willing, but also unclear and uncertain. There is the desire and the will to do the right thing, but also the doubt as to what that right thing is. Today, the cabinet has announced significant measures. That is good and that is necessary, but you also feel in that uncertainty that there are many questions alive. Why now? Why not before? So can Minister Bruins and the Prime Minister explain why these additional measures have been taken today? What has happened in the past 24 hours, 12 hours, why this is the time to scale so heavily? It is precisely in crisis time that good communication is the most important thing that a government can do for its citizens, given that great willingness. I have several questions about that. For example, there is a great deal of uncertainty in the border region. If you live in Limburg, fellow member Jetten just indicated that he lives a few kilometers away from the border.You sometimes have a few kilometers over the border in Germany bigger fireplaces than there are in Brabant. It is precisely these people who are entitled to good information and also to more European coordination, which reduces the differences and makes people aware of what to do. I too would like to respond to all the questions that have been asked about education. Those questions came right after the press conference, because in education too, people with more than 100 meet. There are also questions: how are we going to save this and what is expected of us? For that, however, I already gave that to..... e-mails within hours, including from childcare organisations that indicate what they can contribute. But indeed there were also signs that the GGD around the leader-child ratios gave more room so that child care could stay alive. That's good business. But I would like to join with the questions that Mr Asscher and Mr Segers, I believe, have asked about what the cabinet is going to do to help the schools to fulfil that responsibility in the event of illness. Mr Asscher asked for protocols so that these schools could be actively helped to do so. This certainly applies to small schools, where a problem can already arise with a few sick teachers. I would therefore like the cabinet to make a specific point about this. Examples of that uncertainty and uncertainty have we seen in the last few days, I think, all come along: NLdoes is cancelled, but the KNVB was planning to continue playing football games, off-game games where audiences could also come from Brabant. It is good that it has now been clearly communicated that events starting with those 100 people will not continue. However, I am left with the question that in this digital age, with this major crisis, a press conference once every two or three days is little. Last Tuesday, Mr. Diertens tabled a motion on a daily update. I'd almost say you can do it several times a day. Eight hours can be a long time in a crisis like this, in which justified but sometimes unjustified questions can lead their own lives. There may be active communication on all channels, where I find such a coronajournaal a very good start at a fixed time. When does the cabinet come up with the elaboration of this deep-lived question? It can also remove a lot of uncertainty that you saw again after today's press conference in all kinds of ways. I also have questions about ic capacity, like almost all colleagues. I noticed in the letters that D.O.D.'s breathing equipment is also being made suitable for use. But what is really being done to ensure that when that peak comes, what one tries to prevent, there is sufficient capacity, more capacity than now, to catch it? I also have questions about the letter concerning the economy. The cabinet has indicated its willingness to do a great deal and to go very far. That is good, but I also recognise that specific sectors can be hit by specific companies. Measures have been announced in the letter, but we have also adopted today a motion by Mr Alkaya of the SP asking for the incentives to be developed quickly. Can the cabinet indicate when we will have this effect, precisely in order to be able to absorb any gaps in those specific companies with specific employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u68	Let's get back to the ICUs. Especially here, with the ICUs, it is avenged that the cabinet started too late. I have already said it a few times: Minister Bruins denied the issue, said it did not come to Europe and that the Netherlands would be protected; all that kind of crazy. So we started getting the care in order too late. Italy has done the same. That's what Italians say. Old Prime Minister Renzi said yesterday: Europe, please learn from us, because we have been late with measures and that is why we are in trouble. Do you know what's happening in Italy? Because they started too late, doctors in Italy have to decide who can be saved and who can't. They say, for example, older people over 70 or 80 years of age should get rid of the ic or can't and can't die on it and others can't. That goes me through marrow and leg. Surely it would not be possible for this to happen in the Netherlands and that this could happen mainly because we are late in getting things in order, because your cabinet, the cabinet that you support, has denied and trivialized the case for months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u69	I have also heard a great deal of support from the opposition today for the commitment to deal with this crisis. At the same time, questions about ic capacity have long been raised about preparatory measures. The CDA Group also started asking questions about ic capacity weeks ago. In the meantime, consultations and measures have been announced in the various debates and letters. I have just mentioned the DOD's ventilation equipment that is being made fit. But I think that the cabinet should be more clear about that third stage, which is written in the letter. Several colleagues also asked for this. The cabinet needs to clarify what is happening now to be further prepared for that phase and it needs to do more to increase ic capacity and ventilation capacity. That is something that we, as CDA, have been asking questions about for weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u70	That's a really lousy answer. It's a lousy answer, because you're not I'm the chairman of a government group. You shouldn't ask questions. You have to take care of it. I, as one of the opposition leaders, can ask the questions. You have to take care of it. So stop "we've asked questions and we're asking questions again." We've seen the president of the Association for ICU on television. We all know that there are now 1,000 places in the Netherlands. Well, that's just about icing places with staff, 'cause it's not good for you to have beds alone. That's what we heard at the hearing. There are 1,000 beds with staff on the ICUs. They're already full for 800 people. This means that if we continue, we will have a deficit in the Netherlands as well, and if things go further wrong, we will have to choose the same way as in Italy. I do not want it on my conscience that because we have waited too long, because we have left things on track, because we have denied it, we are immediately in the Netherlands in a situation where we have older people who have to remember scarce places and give other, just younger people a place. That is because we started too late not only to ask questions, but also to settle them. You shouldn't ask questions. You should have taken care of it. Why didn't you? Why didn't you ensure that there is enough ic capacity already? Why didn't you get 2,000, 3,000, 4,000 places ready already?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u71	Of course, I find it very annoying that Mr Wilders considers my answers to be so useless, but as a representative of the people, as an auditor of the cabinet, it is important to ask questions at an early stage. The CDA, like the PVV Group, was one of the first to start asking questions on this subject. It is precisely by asking questions of this kind, by tabling motions, by asking written questions and by asking questions during debates that you, as an auditor of the cabinet, recommend that these measures be taken. That's our job. You can find that a lousy answer, but that task belongs both to opposition parties and to coalition parties. We have asked these questions from the beginning. I'm resetting them now. There is also a lot going on, I mentioned the defence ventilation equipment that is being used, but I ask the cabinet to do more to ensure that there is enough ic-capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u72	Oh, stop talking about the breathing equipment. I'm not talking about the ventilator. I'm talking about the Ice Beds. You sit every Monday morning when there's coalition talks, I know where that is, with the prime minister and the vice prime ministers. You can't ask questions, can you? You could have said that we should have taken care of that. Stop avoiding the answer. You can't get away with "we're gonna ask questions" right now. One of your rulers, at least from the coalition that you support, denied it. We still don't have enough ic-spots right now. People said it again this week during a hearing: we have too few. There are 1,000 or 1,200, and there are 800 occupied. In other words, if it is not in order, we will soon have to make the same choices as in Italy. It's beastly choices not to give older people and others access. I don't want that on my conscience, and I don't think you want that on your conscience either, so settle it. You should have taken care of it by now. Take care of it now. Don't ask questions, but demand it from this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u73	I am going to stress once again that coalition and opposition groups both have the task of controlling the cabinet and of asking questions about it in debates and tabling motions when they see things happening. The CDA Group was one of the very first groups to work on this. When this came up and was not yet in the Netherlands, the CDA already asked the question: make sure that the ic-capacity is put in order. In doing so, breathing equipment is of crucial importance. We've been asking about that, too. The cabinet says that's what it's doing. Here too, I would point out that more needs to be done to ensure that there is sufficient ic capacity if that third phase is to occur in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u74	Older people feel very often in this cabinet that they are being caught, when it comes to pensions, when it comes to the quality of care, when it comes to waiting lists for nursing homes. Older people are frightened to death when they hear from the Association for Intensive Care that if the need is for the man, age is going to be the criterion to let people into the ic or not. Does the CDA agree with the SP that age discrimination is out of the question when it comes to such choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u75	I recognise that concern which Mr Hijink is talking about, not only in the elderly, but also in chronically ill or people with reduced resistance. That is where the worries have been the greatest in the last few days. It is precisely in order to prevent the situations that Mr Wilders points out that the CDA has started asking questions at an early stage to ensure that there is sufficient capacity. Today's letter indicates that consultations are taking place and that all kinds of measures are being taken if we are in a situation where the peak is rising. I would like to hear what the scenario is, what the cabinet is going to do, to ensure that there is sufficient ic-capacity and ventilation capacity and that that peak, including those caregivers, can be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u76	So that is not an answer to my question. I asked very clearly whether there was age discrimination or not. Older people were told earlier by Minister Bruins that Corona patients might be taken care of in nursing homes. That turned out to be wrong, but that was very careless formulated by this government. And now there is the statement that age becomes a criterion for whether or not people are admitted to the ic. Ic-doctors themselves say to me or to us: that's not right at all, we're not just looking at age, we're looking at a lot of other things, like: what's someone like. So let me ask you again: does Mr Heerma think that if that kind of wrong, worrying information goes around, there should be clear communication about what policy is in our intensive care? Does he agree with that? Does he think we shouldn't have this kind of age discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u77	I very much agree, that was a great deal of my input, that this information should be better and that it should be communicated more quickly and more clearly when there are legitimate concerns. When there are stories that do not make sense, they must also be fought. First of all, there is the question of how capacity should be put in order, and we have been working on this from the outset. Indeed, it cannot be that you are going to have discriminatory considerations to make choices in that regard. The doctor responsible for this must be able to make a careful assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u78	The association of intensive care doctors has drawn up a schematic and in that it just happened: 80-plussers have to take first place. Last night I was watching Italian television. There was even talk of people over 60 who should be making first place. That's causing a lot of trouble for the elderly. Can we not send out a very clear signal to everyone here: this is not how it should be, you have to look at the condition of someone, but not at the age, because that is age discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u79	There are wide concerns. Some of them are legitimate concerns that should have been addressed earlier and some of them are not justified and should have been addressed more quickly. Doctors are supposed to consider the patient's condition, and so are they. First of all, the commitment must be to ensure that there is sufficient capacity and that this peak is countered by measures. In addition, doctors will indeed have to make a sensible choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u80	I am not asking you to explain that there is concern, because we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u81	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u82	And those old people are really pissed off about that. I ask you to send out a clear signal to all these elderly people, that the CDA, like us, is going to argue that it should never be based on age, but only on condition. Just give me that clear signal and don't explain to me things I already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u83	That's what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u84	I hear Mr Heerma saying that measures should have been taken earlier. Does he regret that on 28 and 29 January he did not support my request for an urgent debate on the coronavirus, to take timely action? Does he regret that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u85	I do not regret that, because that was exactly in the period of the end of January/early February in which the CDA also began to ask for precautions to be taken to ensure that there was sufficient capacity so that it could be contained. So even then, the CDA was already active in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u86	In Mr Heerma's view, in the work of the Chamber, is there a difference in weight between organising an urgent debate and asking written questions? Is it one that might be clearer as a signal than the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u87	No, that's far from the case. As a Chamber, we have many different possibilities. I have experienced that sometimes a debate is most effective and that sometimes a general consultation is much faster than an urgent debate. Quite often, it is precisely the repeated questioning of written questions and thus continuing to insist on very effective means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u88	If we had organized an urgent debate as a Chamber, tabled a number of motions and obtained a majority in favour of them, then you would not have been able to do more to put the cabinet to work than to ask written questions, which would have to be answered within an x-number of weeks? That's what you think, isn't it? You really think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u89	In any case, the measures will be taken on the basis of expert advice. That is what we are having today's debate on, what happened today. I do believe that the pressure that the CDA Group has put from the outset has had its effect in recent weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u90	There is no evidence of that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u91	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u92	Quite frankly, I do respect the fact that the CDA has already questioned this very critically at the beginning of this crisis. At the time, accusations were made towards the CDA, but I think that's a good thing. Still, I can recognize myself in the care that Geert Wilders out of here. We see what's happening in Italy now. A lot of elderly people and vulnerable people come with heavy double pneumonia in intensive care. That certainly raises the question: where are we now? I think Mr Heerma agrees with me, but I think it should not only be the question of 'how far you are now' and 'talk to us and tell us again what actions are being taken', but also the question of 'whatever it takes'. Here too, I would prefer a measure too much and to say later that it was not necessary, rather than that we are in that situation. That is how I listened to Mr Wilders' question. My request to you would be to ask not only the question that you are asking for a reason, but above all to order: whatever it takes, sufficient capacity for our sick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u93	Mr Asscher may not have heard it, but I have just asked not only the question, but also that more needs to be done to ensure that there is sufficient capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u94	Still on the subject of education. You can see that the news is constantly being updated and that there are examples from other countries as well. It is striking that France is now also saying: close the schools. He has put the emphasis on good communication and all that. If you see that so many countries are taking this kind of action, which has been advised earlier, and that colleges and universities are also taking further action, will it not also become extremely complicated and very difficult to find sufficient support and support for the whole of these less far-reaching measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u95	What Mr Van der Staaij says, I know very well. It was also part of my speech: the questions that live go at a time when little communication is being made at the expense of the feeling of wanting to stand shoulder to shoulder. You can see great differences between European countries. There are also neighbouring countries that make the same choice as the Netherlands. There are big differences. My questions about border regions and their lack of clarity are also on this issue. At the same time, I see that today, in the educational field, e-mails are also circulating from schools that are taking measures, which are willing to move towards more space together with childcare, perhaps even child care that wants to jump into school time; I call the Leiden child ratio "to do what is needed there." So my question to the cabinet was not just about better information. That was also the case, but it was also about active support for schools, childcare organisations, so that they could do so in a good way and, if possible, give more space. That's how I get it back from child care: that this happens from the GGD with those Leiden child ratios. Perhaps through active support those schools will be able to fulfil that role much better. But that there's concern about it, given the diffusion, that's a core of my input. And I think we all feel that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u96	I'd also like to talk about the schools. Personally, I can take it very badly when politicians take good care of themselves and not others. Well, it's true that we in the House of Representatives won't be voting with his 150s here on Tuesday. I think we will have a communication on this from all of us Presidents. Well, it's just been published on the news, so I can tell you that the First Chamber goes with coronareces for two weeks. There are 150 of us; that's over 100 men. That's why we're not all gonna vote on Tuesday. That is a very sensible decision, which will be taken immediately on a proposal from the Chamber. And the First Chamber, which, as far as I know, is made up of 75 members, doesn't meet for two weeks. And now we have a school. At an average school in the Netherlands 350 people are around. I'm already getting e-mails from teachers asking: how can you take care of yourself so well and that we have to expose ourselves, with all the risks of that? Do you agree with me that it is embarrassing that politicians take good care of themselves, and rightly so, here in the First Chamber and in the Second Chamber, but that we say to people in education, who are often in much larger schools with hundreds of people,: you know what, go well; if you want to expose yourself to the virus; we don't care about that? You can't do that, Mr. Heerma! You agree with me, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u97	That is precisely why I have just indicated that there are concerns in education about the fact that there are more than 100 people there. I believe that the cabinet should also respond to this. I have also indicated, both in my first term and in my reply, that I believe that schools should be actively supported, that they should be helped in the important task they now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u98	But that's not my question. I was talking about the difference. I outlined how politicians take care of themselves. We as House of Representatives no longer vote on Tuesday, there are no more 150 men here. And the First Chamber goes on leave for two weeks, while they only have 75 members. Well, let's just say another old clerk, so 76. But that's about it. And here we arrange that education should just go to work. At least that's what the Cabinet says. Don't you think that difference is unfair?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u99	First of all, on the vote. I don't know if there's any "take care of yourself." On the contrary, we are talking about 'giving a good example'. Of course, it would be very weird. Mr Wilders states that it is good to take care of ourselves. I think it is a good example when the cabinet states that there must also be no more than 100 people in the workplace. Then it would be very strange if we were to vote here on Tuesday with 150 people. Or today. I have indicated in my contribution both in the first term and in my replies to the questions put by Mr Asscher and Mr Wilders that I believe that these schools need support and help. And that's exactly what I'm filling in with what he's asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u100	Madam President, really, really: this is like Mr Jetten when he was just chairman of the political group. Who simply repeats an answer and does not answer the question. My question is not what you think of my assessment or how you think the schools should have support. You're still not telling me to close the schools. You're not saying that. Let me not say that the Chamber takes good care of itself, but that the Chamber is right to say that we are not all together anymore, because we are made up of more than 100 people. The First Chamber says we're under 100, but we're not getting together either. That's probably right, too. But the cabinet does say to the teachers in the Netherlands "go to school," even if that school counts 350 or 400 teachers and students. What do you think of that? Maybe you can really answer the question sometime. Don't you think that difference is unfair?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u101	I don't think those two things are the same. Because the first is about the fact that it would be very strange for us to vote here with 150 people after today. But I have asked all kinds of questions about Mr Wilders' concerns about education. I indicated in my first term, and I want to do this again here, that if there are a lot of concerns in the field of education that they will remain open, the cabinet will have to explain it here as well. The cabinet must explain why this choice is being made, and measures must be taken to actively support and assist these schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u102	I'll make one last attempt. You say it would be weird if we voted here on Tuesday with 150 people, because that's over 100. Then why don't you say it would be weird if schools where there are more than 100 people stay open? That's not what you're saying. Then be consistent and say: it would rightly be strange if the Chamber were to meet, and so no school remains open; I think they should all close, but at least the one with more than a hundred people. Then you're consistent. But you don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u103	I have repeatedly stated in my term that the schools must be helped. It's a diabolical dilemma. Several speakers have indicated this. The schools will have to be helped. There will also need to be better communication towards those schools why what measures are being taken. But I am not saying with Mr Wilders: we are now going to decide that all these schools must be closed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u104	I have another question from a whole different book. We just read that the Dutch Railways will start using fewer trains in rush hour tomorrow, so-called for the safety of every passenger. It seems to me to be a very strange decision to remove trains from the timetable if we do not have to sit around like that anymore, which means that everyone is very close to each other again. I would like to ask Mr Heerma what he thinks of that. And, of course, secretly, through Mr Heerma, I ask the cabinet whether this is a measure that follows from the decisions they made this afternoon, or whether they also think it is a bit typical that there are fewer trains going to run, which means that we get back to being sardines in a coupe and so we are closer to each other than further apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u105	This was not yet known to me and I did indeed lead Mr Hijink's question to the cabinet with love. It seems to me that there are concerns when there are fewer trains and there are many more people on a train. So I think it's a fair question and I'd like to wait for the answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u106	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week, when Leonie Sazias had the debate on the coronavirus, the number of people tested positively in the Netherlands was 82. The official number has now risen to more than 600 people, but it is to be feared that the actual number is much higher. In the United Kingdom, for example, the official figure is 590 at the moment, but a scientist employed by the government says that in all likelihood more than 10,000 cases have been reported. 50PLUS is worried. Our supporters, like those with weak health, are among the most vulnerable target groups. Fortunately, a number of measures have been announced this afternoon, but are they enough and did they come in time? Aren't we gonna keep chasing the facts? In Taiwan they have immediately flown experts from China and in Italy they do so now. The peak is now over and the Chinese are ready to assist countries in Europe. Shouldn't we take that offer with both hands? And how do we do that in this house? I called in the media for the Mayreces to be brought forward and for at most two members of a group to be present at votes. The latter proposal has now been taken over as an opinion by the Bureau, the Board of the House of Representatives. Good, because let us set a good example by sitting together with no more than 100 people. As far as I'm concerned, we're just holding the most necessary meetings. We'll catch up with the others in the recess with all our love. Mr. Chairman. Last time, 50PLUS and the SP filed a motion to make every effort to keep nursing homes corona-free. In doing so, we asked residents of nursing homes who are infected not to take care of those nursing homes. Unfortunately, this motion was not adopted at the time, but given the seriousness of the situation it may well have to be considered. This time, together with the SP, we submit a motion not to charge the cost of a corona test at its own risk. In my constituency, there's a lot of concern about that. At the nursing home Hoogstaete in Sittard, at least fifteen residents are now infected with the corona virus and two of them have died. That's how fast it can be. I read in the Minister's last letter that there is still a look at the possibility of catching residents infected with the virus on site. But when will we be clear about that? Time is ticking and you see what it can bring about. Many people are worried about hospital and nursing staff, but what about the staff in home care and care? And what about the carers? Have any measures been taken for them to prevent contamination? We hear that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this. Is there going to be any advice for carers? The Minister for Medical Care said at the press conference that he is doing everything he can to keep protective equipment available, but is there enough clarity now? As far as I am concerned, the letter we received on this subject is not yet entirely clear either. I'd really like to know more about that. Many parts of the country now have crisis levels GRIP-4, the second worst crisis level. How far are the regions from GRIP-4, so that a rural approach is needed? Are we ready yet? And what about other security regions? Can the Minister say anything about that? I get a lot of questions from troubled parents and grandparents about going to school with their kids, which worries them. They'd like to keep those kids at home. Then what are they running into? Will they then get the compulsory education officer on their feet? France has now decided to close all schools, universities and crèches throughout the country. How does the cabinet view this? Is it true that next week there will be an exercise of 30,000 American soldiers in Europe, including in the Netherlands? How is that consistent with the US President Trump's decision to stop all passenger traffic between the United States and Europe for 30 days? We have just discussed the 80-plussers in an interrupting debate. I was shocked when I heard last night that even 60-plussers were spoken of in Italy. I am really considering tabling a motion on that in the second term, because that can't be true, can it? That's gonna cause a lot of crazy unrest. I sincerely believe that we should not abandon the elderly. I was glad the Prime Minister talked about it at a press conference, but he forgot half of it. However, we must ensure that these elderly people do not end up in isolation. Have children on the phone with their parents; let there be app contact. We can do anything with FaceTime these days. And if older people need groceries, they really need to be made. We were happy with the deaf interpreter, but it was not always in the picture. Finally. On the international list of the distribution of the coronavirus, you can see that the Netherlands still has only two cures, while we know that there are many more. That is a positive figure, which I would also like to see included in that list. Finally, I would like to thank all the people who are so committed to fighting this virus very much, because without them we were farther away from home. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u108	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u109	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to express my thanks towards all healthcare professionals for their hard work at this difficult time. My condolences go out to the relatives of the victims of the corona virus and to the people who are infected. I wish them well. We are a sober country, said Prime Minister Rutte at a press conference last Monday. In the light of recent developments and the now 614 confirmed infections, there is a too sober attitude that could cost us dearly. My group is concerned about the uncertainty surrounding the virus. This uncertainty calls for precautions, more than just risk management. Prime Minister Rutte himself said: we have to take 100% decisions with 50% knowledge. We read that there are indications that people may already be infected if they don't have any complaints yet. Is this anticipated by the Cabinet? What is the long-term impact of the virus on the airways? Indeed, there is already evidence that serious permanent damage can be caused. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of confidence in the experts. And rightly so. But the confidence that this cabinet, as a precaution, dares to take really tough measures for public health, but perhaps at the expense of the economy, is small in my group, for three reasons which I will explain one by one. First of all... Last week I warned about the attitude that was too focused on business as usual. Even then, there was evidence that the virus is partly unnoticed or inaccessible to the source, where there are many more people infected than we know. If we knew that last week, shouldn't we have taken all the measures that have been in place since today, just as a precaution? Maybe we could have really contained the virus. I'd like a response. Secondly, the schools. After this afternoon's press conference, there was quite rightly concern about this. It's strange working at home and sending your kids to school. At a school, added together, more than 100 children are soon present. In Denmark, schools are open only to children of medical staff and other indispensable professions. Is the cabinet prepared, for example, to introduce the Danish model or see how they do it there? Then I have a very practical question: what is the figure of 100 in the Netherlands based on, given that other countries have different figures? Thirdly, international travel. Why are no measures taken to limit people's travel? Soon the whole of the Netherlands will be working at home, while Amsterdam will continue to flood with tourists from all over the world. And can Dutch people just go on vacation in an airplane with more than 100 people on board? Mr. Chairman. With a view to the future, one final point. Because one thing is for sure: if we do not seriously look at prevention, we will increasingly face pandemics that are far more profound than corona. The way people have been dealing with animals for several decades is literally sickening. 70% of pathogens come from animals. People get sick because of the large-scale, intensive way in which we keep animals and drag the world around. The MERS, SARS and now the coronavirus all originate in animals. The source was this time a animal market in Wuhan. In response, the Chinese government has decided to ban the consumption of wild animals completely. That's it? That's it? Definitely not. The European market for wild, exotic animals is huge. Schiphol Airport is an important port of transit. Many exotic animals may, if bred, be legally traded. Licenses are hilariously simple to fake. In the Netherlands it is still allowed to keep a civet cat, the likely source of SARS, as a pet. In short, due to a lack of regulation and supervision, our borders are wide open to the import of dangerous diseases. Scientists have been warning us for years that this trade is dangerous. The intensive, worldwide drag with animals is a ticking time bomb. That's why diseases like the corona virus can get their heads up over and over again. Over and over again we end up in a cycle of disease outbreaks, then with man and power limiting the consequences and then waiting for the weather to fail. We really need to break this cycle. According to several experts, this can only be done by stopping the intensive, global trade in animals. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u110	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. Let me now give the floor... Oh, Mrs Van Esch, Mr Baudet has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u111	Do you also think that parents should have the freedom to keep their children at home and not go to school? Do you also think that schools should have the freedom to close the doors as a precaution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u112	Yeah, I get that question. I find that difficult, because I expect a situation of chaos when you say that people themselves have the freedom to do so. I would prefer this cabinet to say: we close the schools, but we will ensure that there is care for children of medical staff. But leaving the whole to the schools themselves, I find quite a responsibility for those schools. Actually, I don't think that's right. You don't have to give schools the responsibility to do it yourself. I understand perfectly well that parents would like to have freedom in that. I also think we should offer it. However, I find it very strange that we, as a national government, do not give good rules and standards for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u113	I totally agree with you. The failure of the Rutte cabinet in this matter is enormous. However, as a Chamber, we can do what we can to try to get as many good measures as possible through. So if tonight does not succeed in achieving a complete closure of schools and universities, would you also support our motion to at least give parents the freedom to keep their children at home and to give schools the freedom to close their doors if school leaders decide to do so themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u114	Firstly, I would like to try to change the policy of the cabinet here, because I do think that we should do our best tonight. But I'm still very curious about your motion. It may be that I would like to submit it, but I would like to read her first, before I promise you this completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u115	She's coming to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u117	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u118	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Still there are flights from Iran or Italy at Schiphol Airport. Even if you have a fever of 40 degrees, you can just come to the Netherlands from infection centres. We are heading for nothing less than a total outbreak and the cabinet is constantly behind the facts. The measures taken are too little and too late. Rutte doesn't manage to think ahead and anticipate what's going to happen. The cause of this failing policy is that one only looks at the situation today, but that is like looking at the stars. You see things and they're behind in time. Because stars are so far away, you may see stars that haven't existed for a long time. That's what it's like when you look at the corona virus infection, because if you're infected, it takes up to two weeks for you to see symptoms. Mr. Chairman. On 23 January in Wuhan in China alone, there were more than 2,400 coronados. More than 50,000 people were infected by then. Anyone with a little common sense could see at that moment that this would also come to the Netherlands; that it was only a matter of time before infected cases would occur here too. But this cabinet didn't see it. No, our Minister for Medical Care, Bruno Bruins, came a day later, on January 24th, with the following disgusting naive statement. He said: "There is little chance that the virus will cross over to Europe. I don't think we need to worry." Four days later, on January 28th and another day later on January 29th, I asked for an urgent debate on the fast-moving corona virus from this place to twice. My suggestion was hoarded by a majority here in the Chamber. Reference was made to AO's, to written questions, to cases that were scheduled ten days later. In the end, nothing was taken seriously. And what could have been avoided relatively easily at that time has now become a very hard reality. Of course, the coronavirus reached the Netherlands. And the cabinet was completely unprepared. Yesterday, on 11 March, the World Health Organization declared that there is now an official pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u119	I would like to respond to Mr Baudet's cry. It is true that he was early to request a debate, but in the meantime we have had two extensive debates on this virus, in which Mr Baudet has not participated. In the last debate we have had in this Chamber, Mr Hiddema has appeared. He kept his mouth shut over there. We haven't seen him all day asking the government those critical questions. I think we've now been briefed three or four times by the RIVM. I haven't seen the Forum for Democracy there once. So go ahead and complain that it's all taken so long, but join us when we talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u120	This is a well-known pattern, a well-known trick we've seen before in the Chamber. We are talking about major issues that go wrong and MPs from very large groups who are constantly doing nothing but passing through all sorts of marginal consultations. They say: yes, it is true that all kinds of very big things went wrong, but two and a half weeks ago we had a very important discussion three-high and you were not there. There is only one thing I can say: if he wants to see the Forum for Democracy get even bigger, he will be able to vote for us at the next elections, and hopefully they will not be far away. So it is a crisis that affects both health and the economy on all continents. A day before 11 March, on which this has been officially declared a pandemic, Mark Rutte told us that for the time being we should not shake hands with each other, but that it was all under control. The contrast between the severity of the corona crisis and the laconiness of the cabinet could not be greater. Also the attitude now, when I say this. People are busy with other things and let it happen for a while. Everyone abroad takes very large measures. In addition, few other situations show a prediction of the future as well as this corona crisis. You can see the pattern in Italy. This is the infection pattern in Italy. The first infections with us started later, but they follow exactly the same pattern, if you deduct the number of days that are the difference between us and Italy. We are here now and we can choose whether we continue on this exponential route up or whether we weaken the curve here. That can be, that have shown all kinds of countries. You can get it under control if you take clear measures. Countries around us do the same. Austria, the United Kingdom, Denmark and France are all taking far-reaching measures, such as close schools and border controls, to control this contamination. And what do we do? It is advised not to allow meetings of 100 men or more to go on. But schools? Yeah, sorry, we can't because we don't have a babysitter. Entry ban, flight control, border checks? Sorry, that would cause society too much unrest. Sorry, the economy. While one does not realize that with every day we wait the impact of this pandemic will become much and much greater. The Schengen Borders Code offers every opportunity to introduce that control and to get control over our borders. Other laws and regulations offer all the possibilities. They refuse to do so because they refuse to look ahead because they do not learn from the contamination pattern in countries around us. Six weeks ago, we anticipated it. At that time, on the basis of information in China, it was already clear what would happen here. But now we still don't want to know what's actually going on. We call for a comprehensive list of measures. We must move quickly towards very decisive measures. Firstly, clear, open and above all honest communication to our people. An immediate entry ban from infection sites. All schools and universities are closed for the time being. All non-essential government personnel work at home. A two-week coronareces for the House of Representatives, as well as for the House of Representatives. Special childcare for care workers, agents and other aid workers that we need to overcome this crisis. Re-introduce border controls. In case of doubt home insulation with appropriate help. More test capacity, because that gives people security and safety. General practitioners support and relieve, so that everything doesn't end up on their shoulders. Support packages for sectors hit hard economically. Extension of part-time WW scheme. Capacity Tax Administration and UWV temporarily expand to support applications for deferred payment and part-time WW. Painful measures, but the longer we wait, the stronger the measures will have to be to have even more effect. Soft healers make stinky wounds. If we had intervened a month and a half ago, if you had listened to me then, none of this would have been necessary. I do now. Finally, my thanks and all the support to the fantastic staff in care, in intensive care. Your work is great, invaluable, and you will receive all our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u121	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u122	Mr. Chairman. Last time, there was mainly bewilderment from abroad about the carefree attitude of the Netherlands and the lack of measures. 'Cause why did that carnival have to go on in Brabant? Was that wise after all? The great hilarity about the advice not to shake hands from earlier this week. Today, after the press conference this afternoon, it became clear that in the Netherlands, as de Volkskrant described the policy earlier today "trying to get the virus lost in a maze of loose measures." Because what are these supposedly mitigating measures? Stay home with colds. But when are you gonna catch a cold enough to isolate yourself and call in sick? You can only call the GP or the GGD if your complaints worsen. So people stay in uncertainty for a long time. Work at home if you can. However, it is up to organisations and institutions themselves to consider ordering events and meetings. Don't visit vulnerable people, but what does a cold caregiver do? In these times of scarce nursing home care many vulnerable people still live at home. Has the minister thought about a backup for carers? What happens to the lonely elderly who still have a hard time getting no visitors at all? Isn't it very hard to call on the professions, such as health care workers, teachers and police officers, which have been cut so much earlier? Now they're free to fight the corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. There is still no leadership and no responsibility taken. There are no sanctions if urgent advice is ignored. These are not measures that the Cabinet announces, but ways to cover itself without much pain. On a question from a journalist at the press conference this afternoon whether these measures are enough, or whether this is not too lax, our Prime Minister said: "You will know that afterwards." We shouldn't "try to..." or "call people to..." This government must take measures to prevent worse, measures which may be enforceable if an organisation considers its meeting with 150 people to be so important that it must continue at all times. Mr. Chairman. Doctors, medical microbiologists have studied data from the virus and today conclude that the information on the RIVM website is seriously behind schedule and is incomplete. I quote. "The RIVM data give the impression that Brabant is not very different from Utrecht and that the increase in the number of cases is not too bad. We all know that it is not." How does the Minister feel about this? What's he gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. Italian figures show that as many as 10% of infected corona patients end up on the ic. Older people are left to their fate because of the capacity shortages. A nurse from Italy said to the NOS today: "They do not know where to place the patients and those who die die alone, because the family cannot be present." Mr. Chairman. The Dutch association of intensive care doctors sent a pandemic playbook to its members on Monday. "In the extreme case, we can no longer record people over 80 years of age." What are the measures taken by this government to prevent Italian situations? I asked during Question Time, but I did not receive an answer, so I ask the Minister again. Can the Minister guarantee that no one will be left to his fate, no older, no chronically ill or otherwise people from vulnerable groups, yes or no? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u123	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u124	Mr. Chairman. We're in a crisis, in a pandemic, and that calls for leadership. A good leader only chooses what is technically the best and not what is motivated by emotion or fear. The cabinet must therefore be guided by the facts. What are the facts? The infection of the corona virus is higher than that of ordinary flu, but much lower than that of SARS or measles, for example. The mortality rate is difficult to establish, but is now between 0.7% in South Korea and 5% in Italy. This seems to be very correlated with the quality of the measures taken. People under the age of 50 are virtually without risk. The risk is limited to the elderly and people with very low resistance. The healthcare institutions in the Netherlands have limited capacity. Therefore, it is important to keep the peak as low as possible, so that it is spread out over longer periods of time and everyone can get the necessary care. The last fact: a large number of us will indeed get that coronavirus and we will probably not notice anything about it. Mr. Chairman. There's something strange about fighting a crisis. A driver who takes too harsh measures never gets blamed. A driver who is too mild is smeared with pitch and feathers. It is important to make decisions on the basis of the facts. It is important to strike a balance between preventing disruption of the economy and society on the one hand and calling for a total lockdown on the other, however well-meant. Fear is a very bad counselor. I would therefore like to call on the cabinet to be realistic. That is not out of opportunism and I am not playing down the situation at all, but I am in favour of a realistic approach to this crisis, based on facts and not on emotion. The cabinet must therefore take proportionate measures which are technically justified and which are as least disruptive as possible in society. Foot kisses? Fine. No shaking hands? Fine. Good hygiene? Fine. Working at home online? Fine. If you don't feel well, don't visit the elderly and the sick? Fine. Mouth cap? Fine. But a total lockdown is not justified by the facts. The country does not need to be locked up by disproportionate measures. Of course, I just heard about a flight ban from Iran. These are things you can think about best, but I do not think that this will disrupt our society. Mr. Chairman. My compliments on the fact that our Prime Minister is keeping his head cool and not shooting into this driver cramp. The same applies, of course, to the Minister for Medical Care. As I said, we must take measures that are proportionate. We have to be incredibly careful, because before you know it, the cure is worse than the ailment. Finally, a question. Does the cabinet have different scenarios in the picture in which the impact on Dutch business has been mapped? If so, can these scenarios be shared with us? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u125	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 9.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u126	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u127	Mr. Chairman. For my part, let's see how we want to classify it. I myself would like to deal with a few issues, namely the situation today and the last few days, after a single introductory word. I will be brief, because this afternoon, of course, was also the press conference with the necessary context and I can also agree with many of the things that have been said here. I would therefore like to address the last few days, the schools, some economic issues and international aspects. Then the Minister for Medical Care will talk about the concrete measures, about information, about capacity, for example in hospitals, about care for employees, about the advice of RIVM and about tools, about that type of questions. The Minister for Justice and Security will discuss the crisis organisation, food supply, the role of the security regions and the functioning of vital sectors. No questions were asked about that, but I thought about enforcement, about maintaining certain things that we have proclaimed today, enforcement measures, and, of course, about the questions that have been asked about worship, Islamic and Christian. As far as I am concerned, that is the distribution of the issues. Then a single introductory word, Mr President. I'll keep that brief. I agree with everyone, and I have said this before, who has said that it is very bad if people have the virus and are now sick, are very sick. We also certainly support the people we live with them who have lost a loved one as a result of the coronavirus. I would also like to repeat what so many of you have said, and I myself did so this afternoon, namely: respect for all the people in the care, in the general practitioners, in the health services and in the RIVM, but also for the people who work from the virological expertise and from the Ministry, for all the people involved in this struggle. Of course also respect for all people in education who work under difficult conditions. I'll come back to that in a minute. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I realize that the measures we have announced today affect a lot of people. I, too, have noticed Mr Klaver and others have referred to how quickly that is being taken up in society. You'll see messages coming in immediately. That shows what a special country we have and how sensible most people really are. They say, "Okay, if that's what they think, then that's what we're gonna do. That is very much to be appreciated, because that way you can fight that battle with all of us. That's what you have to do with 17 million people to win it. That's why it's important that people follow it. I also hope that some people who may have thought 'well, I will do it tomorrow' or 'well, if I don't, it will be such a rush' will also understand that this is really unwise and that they too must comply with the general hygiene rules up to and including the rules for dealing with major events and so on. I realize it's exciting times for the elderly, too. It's an extra vulnerable group. For them, it's definitely not just the flu. Not for others either, but certainly not for the elderly. It could be the last time you get the flu. That's what people feel, and when you look at the statistics on the elderly, it's not very strange that they think that either. Fortunately not in all cases, by far not, but the risk is great there, so it can also be the last time you get the flu. That's what motivates us. In addition, there is, of course, the economic impact. I will answer questions about that in a moment. We realize the economic impact very much, just the jobs and the production that falls silent. Asscher and others have pointed out events that are cancelled, effects on the tourism sector, zpp'ers and workers who become ill. I'd like to say a few words about that. That's kind of introductory. I will be brief, because a lot has already been said. These are a few things I would like to mention, and I think they have also been raised in the debate. I would first like to see Mr Jetten standing with a look at 'I want to get involved in the matter', but I understand that that is not the case anyway. Look where we stand, just these days. I also said it this afternoon: the Netherlands is a patient. The Netherlands is a patient and that means that you have to keep checking if the medicines are working properly. You don't want to overshoot medicine, but you have to watch it work all the time. Today is a turning point. As a country, we are still in the phase of containment. That question was asked by some of you. Among other things, Mr Asscher asked that question. We are still in the containment phase, but we are now taking a package of measures which include measures that are part of the mitigation phase, so that next stage, which is also described in the letter. That is the phase of limiting, not only reducing, but also limiting. But we're in the indam phase. North Brabant is of course an exception. There, more mitigation measures are being taken, where it is still the intention to contain them as much as possible. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u128	I have many criticisms of this cabinet and of Prime Minister Rutte, but I do want him to know that this is from the same objective, namely to ensure that the Netherlands gets out of the crisis as quickly as possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u130	...and make sure that care is as well arranged as possible. So in that perspective, you must see my criticism. I think this cabinet should have acted sooner. I have just said this: the minister sitting on your right, Mr Bruins, has previously denied that the virus would come to the Netherlands and that it would come to Europe at all. Actually, until a few days ago, hardly anything was done by the cabinet. Do you not agree with me, if you look back, that we should have taken measures earlier, like many other European countries, whether it is about schools, entry bans or other things? Do you agree with me that we would have been less bad off than we are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u131	No. I disagree. I heard Mr Wilders say that. I acknowledge that he is as keen on getting this problem under control as I am. We don't fight each other; we don't have to catch each other. But this is a substantive question. I get it, but I really disagree. The answer is no. The answer is no, because we have to constantly make assessments in a battle that is surrounded by many uncertainties. These assessments are always focused on the question: what is needed at this stage? What is the analysis of the phase and what is needed? Fortunately, we in this country are blessed by the fact that this is not only to politicians who have to make the decisions in the end................................................................................................................................................................................................ You don't take those advice blindly and you don't go blind on that compass either, but it is a very important pointer in the discussion. What we do all the time is based on these analyses and the opinions on what measures are needed to take these necessary measures. So I don't agree with Wilders' analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u132	Well, it turns out that the advice of those advisors of yours often will certainly make sense to them............................................................................................................................................................................................. Minister Bruno Bruins, the man who should have pulled this cart before you came into the picture, he didn't, but that was his job, said on the basis of those opinions, not so long ago, in January, that he didn't think that the corona virus from Asia would come to Europe. He sent a letter to the Chamber on 25 February, which was a few weeks ago, referring to the ECDC and saying that the risk is small in Europe. These have therefore proved to be totally incorrect analyses. On the basis of these false analyses, the cabinet has done little to nothing and has been dozed off, we had to use paper tissues in the extreme and were not allowed to shake hands with each other. As a result, we have not been behind for at least a month or two months. The advice didn't add up. The minister was asleep. We could have done things for a month, two months. You have to admit that, don't you? You must admit that we have lost that time and that it is a waste of time, which is bad for the measures and is also bad for the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u133	No. That analysis doesn't add up. We must constantly assess where we stand on the basis of inefficient information. But it is not that, because we do not always know exactly how fast it is going, we are taking certain measures later than would be necessary. We don't. We are taking all the necessary measures and they are part of that phase. It is also true that we in the Netherlands have had a structure for 15 years that is fully geared towards combating pandemics. It is also seen throughout the world as a standard. That's a structure we have for 15 years. This includes all these organisations: the GGD, the RIVM, the ROAZ, so all those things that are needed to ensure in our unique health care structure, with a large role for the general practitioners, that you are never finished with your measures too late. You make your analyses based on all the facts you have. But it is not that, because things are going faster than we thought a few weeks ago, we would be lagging behind with measures now. That's one. Two. The measures we then take on the basis of all the analyses we have are precisely the measures needed at that stage in the fight against this virus. That was, until this week, a more extensive package specifically for Brabant, for the reasons I have just mentioned. I will say more about what has changed in the past 24 and 12 hours, which means that today we have decided to take a next package of measures, so we will continue to step up the medicine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u134	But we were too late. The Prime Minister is therefore simply wrong. We were late, though. We have denied the problems and now, for example, we have problems in ICU departments and problems with ventilation equipment. We have problems that, if we had recognized it before, could have been solved sooner. Other countries have done the same. Other countries have tested more and done more things, not just in Europe. The two countries that took the problem very seriously in Asia and tested everyone are Singapore and Hong Kong. They have done so so actively that they have now been removed from the list of risk areas. Those countries that have not done so, Italy is at the forefront and the Netherlands is number two, together with other countries that have done so later, are going through that mistake towards Italian conditions. You, like Singapore, should have acted immediately and made sure that our concerns are in order. We should have taken measures. You didn't. You have denied the case and the Netherlands is therefore worse off than if you had.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u135	I disagree with that analysis, for those reasons I just mentioned. Of course, we base our policy on an administrative, political decision-making based on expert advice, where you always have to make an assessment. It is not that, because at some point the virus spreads faster or just different than you would like, delays have arisen in the preparation. We have a system that has been in existence for 15 years, a crisis structure that is world-leading. It ensures that in pandemics, even if they develop faster than you would like, we are ready with all the necessary measures. Bruins will also go into the exact details of ic-capacity and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u136	In this part of the debate, it is very much a question of what stage we are at. Those are two difficult words, I think: the indam phase and the mitigation phase, contain or limit. But the choice of the stage in which you are in determines to a large extent what measures to take. I am very pleased that Mr Hijink just in the first term asked for the OMT opinion from RIVM, because there is a crucial difference between the opinion and the letter from the cabinet. The Prime Minister said just now what is also in the cabinet letter, namely that with the new measures we are continuing our efforts to contain the virus further, but we are also preparing for the limit phase. So we're still in the indam phase, but we're preparing for the containment phase. Then I read the part of the OMT, where it says: "We interpret this in such a way that in several areas in the Netherlands the containment of the outbreak is no longer possible and that for the whole of the Netherlands the mitigation phase begins." The advice of the experts is therefore "go into the mitigation phase" for the whole of the Netherlands, but the cabinet still believes that we should not do so for the whole country. What's the difference? What does that mean for the measures we are taking?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u137	For the measures, this means nothing, because we are taking measures which are part of both the containment and mitigation phases. This afternoon, of course, we also spoke in detail with the OMT experts, and we have established that you are at the turning point. That tilting point is that you are clearly in the next phase in Brabant and a number of other fireplaces, in the mitigation phase, and that we are still trying to find out where the virus comes from in as many areas in the Netherlands as possible. It's part of the containment process. This is typically a measure which is part of the indam phase. We will continue to do so in as many places as possible, but at the same time today we are taking a whole package of measures which are clearly part of the next phase, the phase of mitigation. So that means that, as we put it this afternoon, together with the expert, we are in the indentation phase, but we are now making very clear use of the mitigating measures, plus that we are clearly at that stage in a number of areas. Brabant's definitely one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u138	So I can conclude that the experts in the written opinion find that we are in the mitigation phase, but that the experts in consultation with the cabinet have come back to that and that they now believe with the cabinet that we are still at the tilting point and in part still in the indenting phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u139	It's also a little semantic. I thought Van Dissel said the same at the press conference this afternoon. 'Cause you're at a tipping point. This means that as far as monitoring as possible from where the infections come from, you are still in the indam phase, while the measures you take are clearly part of the next phase. That is the package of measures we are taking now. Those are really mitigating measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u140	In the rest of the debate, the extent to which the measures taken at present are sufficient will have to be demonstrated. A lot of questions have been asked about it. I await the response of the cabinet further. What strikes me is that the opinion mentions, among other things, the exclusion of flights from risk areas. That's what I got here last Tuesday...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u141	I'll get back to you on that. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u142	This is crucial for the Court to assess to what extent we are still at the turning point or whether we are actually in the next stage and need to go a step further with the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u143	Let's talk about flights from high-risk areas. I saw that advice. We actually want to try to take over as well as possible, but that takes a little more time. Wilders asked for that. Others have done the same. I agree with that in itself. The reason that's not in the letter right now is that we need to check a few things very carefully. One of them is our supply of goods, because in those flights there are medicines and other things. So if you do that, you should know very well that you're not taking any risks with some vital products you need at the time. It'll take a little more time. I expect that we will be able to take decisions very quickly on flights from at-risk areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u144	Thank you for that reply from the Prime Minister. Maybe he can give a more specific indication of the time at which he expects a follow-up. I would also ask him to do so as much European coordination as possible, because we already see that other EU Member States are already preventing flights from risk areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u145	I come so separately to European coordination, which does not always lead to an acceleration of measures, but we are going to do so as soon as possible. I hope tomorrow, but if it doesn't work out, it's as soon as possible. But I want to be sure that by doing so at this time we are not taking any particular risk, for example when providing certain medicines. That's what we're checking out right now. To be quite honest, I insisted this afternoon and said: is it not possible to put that in the letter immediately? Then it was said: Mark, be careful, then we take a risk; we want to check very carefully how a few things are exactly. But I did hear the OMT's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u146	Last Tuesday, I asked Minister Bruins exactly what the strategy is, whether that strategy is clear, and whether people can follow the strategy. If I hear the Prime Minister now say "we're still largely restraining and at the same time restricting" -- that's that second phase -- I don't understand why the experts themselves, the OMT itself, say to healthcare professionals: you're no longer doing source research. The G.D.D. isn't gonna be doing any more source research. That is the advice that is now being given. Of course, that's how you ended up in that second phase. That's important. It may seem semantic, but it's not. It is very important that we make it clear, including to the people, where we stand when it comes to dealing with the crisis. Look at Germany. That's very open about that. That simply says: assume that 60% to 70% of people get this virus and we do everything we can to prevent a peak load in healthcare. That is a very clear strategy. Why is the cabinet so unclear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u147	Let's talk about preventing that peak load. That is, of course, exactly the strategy we have. You also have these in the different phases, because you want to prevent too big a capacity problem in the care. So you're trying to avoid that peak. You're actually flattening that spike. That's the whole strategy. You try to keep that peak as low as possible, as far as it already exists, by ensuring that the measures are as effective as possible. I told you, we're at a tipping point. In a number of areas there is now a clear mitigation, but it is not the case that we have completely abandoned the measures that are part of the containment. It's still a little semantic whether you're in one or the other. It is clear that the ambition is to continue to contain, but at the same time there is a very mitigating package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u148	Then I wonder what those measures are that are still part of the containment process. If the GGD is going to release the contact research, if general practitioners with the new case definition of RIVM no longer need to check if someone has a connection to a risk area, then you are no longer limiting, then you are in the second phase, then you are looking at who enters into practice, whether you need to test them, and then there is no link to the previous risk areas. It's not a semantic discussion. I believe that the population has a right to know where we stand in dealing with the virus, at what stage, what could be a possible next step. Let us not pretend that we are still at the beginning and are limiting or restraining, when everyone clearly sees that that has actually been released.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u149	That's exactly what I'm saying, so I agree. We take far-reaching mitigation measures, but there is a difference between, for example, North Brabant and a number of pockets or areas outside North Brabant, which were appointed this afternoon by Jaap van Dissel in the press conference, for example in South Limburg. You can also read it in the OMT report. There you have to make it clear that you have to take containment measures. We are taking these measures for the whole of the Netherlands, because you must also assume that it is necessary to take these measures in other areas of the Netherlands as well. Those are national measures you're taking. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u150	The Prime Minister also said earlier that there would be an additional package and additional measures for the province of North Brabant. But that has not been the case since the measures announced this afternoon. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u151	I said this afternoon that Brabant might come up with additional measures in the next few hours or days, because the security regions there are also looking at what is needed. We got that signal, too. So it's being discussed in Brabant. The exact extent to which this is necessary will have to be demonstrated in the coming days. This is first and foremost a Brabant assessment, against the backdrop of the effectiveness of the measures we are taking. If they don't have to, they won't, but the expectation is that it's very conceivable, but we don't know that for the next few days, that's going to have to prove that Brabant is taking additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u152	It is very strange that when we scale up so big, when the cabinet takes responsibility for historically far-reaching measures, we are waiting to see what additional measures the region of Brabant is going to take. The Minister of Medical Care has a legal duty or task to draw the direction towards him. And then we have far-reaching measures here, and then we will be dependent on what might be decided in Brabant. Isn't that what we need to talk about here? That policy must be made on a national scale, mustn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u153	That is not how it works in our crisis structure, and rightly so, because it takes into account regional differences. Mr Klaver also asked a question on this matter, which Mr Bruins will answer immediately: how exactly does this crisis structure work? This crisis structure also provides for local and regional tailor-made, complementary to national policies, where necessary. Brabant is, of course, a special situation. This means that it may be necessary there to take additional measures. Of course, this is done in good consultation, but these are additional measures taken by the security regions there. We support that, too. It is not for nothing that a national balancing framework has been established, which provides for local and regional decisions to be taken. That balancing framework helps parties to make those considerations. Based on that, Brabant can do it. Well, that could be a good idea. I am in favour of maintaining this regional component in a more rigorous national policy. Bruins will go into it in a moment, or no, sorry: Grapperhaus will go into it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u154	I, too, have a question about the opinion of the OMT, which Mr Hijink rightly asked for. There are quite different things on paper from what we heard this afternoon. The Prime Minister states that this is partly a semantic discussion, but I actually hear him say that the mitigation phase has begun, but that we are also continuing to contain it. Is that what he's saying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u155	Yeah, well, what you see, of course, is that... Yeah, that's what you're saying. And so I say: a tilting point where you are actually in both transition areas. Why is that necessary? Because you don't want to let go of the indam instruments and are now largely engaged in a very mitigating package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u156	Following on from what Mr Jetten has just said. The Prime Minister says "we are still investigating it," but the OMT makes it very clear in the opinion that it is important to look at the removal of flights from risk areas in order to prevent the import of patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u157	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u158	But the answer is: we do not want certain goods not to enter. The aim of the deletion is to prevent patients from being imported. That's what flight cancellation is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u159	Yes, but there are also flights where goods and people travel together. So you need to double-check. That is why we have said that we are very sympathetic to the OMT's proposal. This afternoon I also asked: can we do that right away? I have been given the urgent advice by all experts, including the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security: not to decide today, we need to check a few things to avoid making a stupid mistake somewhere, so just give us a little more time. I therefore expect that we will be able to adopt this OMT recommendation very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u160	In my opinion, Mr Wilders referred in the first place to a plane that is going to land on Sunday. Do we hear more about that by Sunday? That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u161	At least an update. I hope we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u162	A second point in this letter that is relevant is in line with Mr Hijink's question about the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u163	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u164	Because the point before that, point five, is about preventing crowding in public transport. And it seems that the removal of trains at rush hour is contrary to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u165	We just checked with the NS. NS informs us that they have decided not to use additional rush trains on a limited number of routes, but that the regular service will continue. Why is that? They say that the number of travellers has fallen significantly as a result of working at home. This has nothing to do with the spread of travel; the number of travellers has simply fallen considerably as a result of working at home. That's one. The second is that the NS also has something to do with the sick of course, and that means that they should also have a good look. It is therefore not appropriate for travellers to sit closely together. This is really assured by the Dutch Railways. They say that this is capacity-wise to do, because there are fewer people on the train at all, and that way we can also take into account the sick that we ourselves have. It is therefore not a matter of the passengers taking care that NS assures us to sit closely together. Because the goal of scattered travel is right: not to sit closely together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u166	That's exactly the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u167	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u168	It is true that people do what they are asked to do at home and to spread working hours to avoid crowding. The NS can guarantee that tomorrow we will not see pictures of overcrowded trains due to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u169	I had the sg AZ specifically call the boss of the Railways when I heard that question here. I hadn't heard that message before and said, "What kind of ridiculous news is this?" There's been a call from the railroad boss. He said, "That's not right." This is the story; I'll read it literally. "It has been decided not to use additional rush trains on a limited number of routes. The regular shift just goes on. The number of passengers has fallen significantly and will continue to fall as a result of further measures. In addition, the people can also be used with disease on the trains that are really needed, i.e. in the regular timetable. It is therefore not a matter for travellers to sit close together." That's what NS assures us. And we, I can tell you, are of course in close contact with NS to monitor that further. I had that question put in the debate in response to this signal, and this is what we get back from the highest power in the Railways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u170	I'd like to continue with this, but first of all, the following. I understand that this pandemic requires a great deal from everyone and also from the cabinet. Thanks for what's being done. Of course, it demands most of the people in the care. Several people have already expressed their thanks, and we must do so. So appreciation for all bets. But what I'm worried about is communication. If a letter comes here from the OMT and there is a difference between the advice it has given and what is in the letter, then it comes down to honest communication: that you tell what you know and what you don't know, that there is a difference between the advice you get and what you do. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that transparency is crucial in communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u171	Yes, only, it has been said a few times in the Chamber: you can't just stamp rubber that the experts come up with. You're going to have to have an administrative and political judgment on that, too. And you have that discussion with each other on the ministerial crisis committee. Then you talk to each other. Then there's an OMT advice and it's said: boxing together, is this all right, do we have it sharp? Well, for example, about flying from high-risk areas: be careful not to do that right now, because then you might run other risks. Let's get to the bottom of this. Next to the question of what exactly is going on with these phases, Van Dissel explained this in the press conference this afternoon and what about the hybrid situation. 'Cause you're still trying to check in where you can. Well, that's the type of conversation you have. So it may well be that you see more often the difference between the exact text of the OMT and what we ultimately decide administratively. But of course we always do so in close consultation with the bosses of our important services, with the highest official at VWS and the boss of RIVM. We really do that in close consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u172	I get that. Only, I think people get worried when they get the feeling that information is left behind, that a dilemma is not shared or that the cabinet is more certain than it is. It might be helpful if you could just say openly and openly in those flights: we have been advised to investigate that. We haven't recorded that yet, because we're worried. The Prime Minister has just given a number of considerations as to why this is not in the letter. But then I think it is important to share such a dilemma and such a consideration directly and simply to put it on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u173	Okay, good advice. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u174	I would like to add one more question. We get all kinds of questions. Mr Jetten also asked the question: how can measures other than those we have here be taken five kilometres away across the border in Germany? We all get these questions. Why is the approach in Belgium different from that in the Netherlands? Everyone is, of course, connected online to the whole world, and certainly to Europe. Then it is also important for the cabinet to explain why it makes the choices it makes, also in comparison with other countries. My heartfelt appeal is: be as transparent and as honest as possible in these considerations. And explain why you're doing what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u175	Good point. I did try to do that at the press conference this afternoon. And I also thought we made an attempt to sketch that in the letter sent tonight. But if you say you can do better, I take that very much to heart. I agree. Of course, the situation may differ from one country to another, in terms of the fight against the virus and the approach, where your national healthcare system is also very important. In the Netherlands, of course, we have something special with our general practitioners as gatekeepers for the further care. That means there's a lot known to these general practitioners. Our system of GGD and RIVM is of course a very special Dutch phenomenon. In other countries there are other systems. And the measures may also differ between countries on the basis of these different healthcare systems. So that can also be factors. We'll communicate even more precisely about that. I'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u176	I indicated in my term that I appreciate a large number of measures being taken, but at that point in time, I still have the question: why? What is the background to the fact that the advice of Outbreak Management Team says that we are actually in the mitigation phase but that there is still some possibility of containment, while the cabinet actually reverses that in the letter and says: no, we are still in the containment phase, but here and there we are going to take mitigation measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u177	I assure Mr Van der Staaij that there is really nothing exciting about that. Because of course it's not all that you can cut it so precisely here, that we're building a rocket here that does exactly this or that. That's not how it works. There are, of course, grey areas in between, where you end up from one stage to the next. We said this afternoon, when I was preparing the press conference with Jaap van Dissel, that you are actually still in the indam phase, but you are taking a whole package of mitigating measures. And then we said to each other, "Yeah, that's it, actually. That's how you focus that communication with each other. But I think it would be wise, also on the basis of the feedback I hear now, to be even more precise about that next time, in what it is. But there's really no bigger or exciting story behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u178	Okay, good thing there's nothing else out there. But then I still think: those phases are meant to make it clearer and clearer? But in this way, it actually raises more questions than it gives answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u179	I understand that now. That's not the point. Only, of course, there is now a situation in the Netherlands, where Brabant is in a different situation, I will not call it a "phase" than other parts of the Netherlands. Today we find that clusters are now also emerging in a few other areas, which we say we want to know more about. We can't exactly figure out what's going on there. I can tell you more about this, but Van Dissel explained this at the press conference this afternoon. Why is it important to come up with a more comprehensive package now, to give the patient the heavier medicine? But I think it is a very sensible opinion from the President-in-Office to say even more precisely: that means that you are at that stage or that stage. But it's not like there's something exciting about that. It's also to develop taste with each other, keys: boys, we're really still trying to contain points. Yes, at the same time because of Brabant and other situations in the Netherlands there is now really the need to make a larger package, which contains a lot of mitigating measures, which are part of the next phase. Then you're in a bit of a landing area. But we're gonna make that even sharper next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u180	I think we're gonna go through those stages after all. We too remain unclear, especially since we had a very clear debate last week about the fact that we are in the so-called first phase of containment. All the justified measures that have now been taken were not necessary last week at that indam phase. We remain unclear as to why these measures can only be taken in that second phase. Why can't you take those justified measures in the first stage to prevent people from getting that virus? That remains unclear for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u181	As I said at the press conference: in the approach in the Netherlands, based on our knowledge of the pandemic and how to combat it in the Netherlands, you always look for everything that is proportional. So you're looking at the drug that fits the patient at that stage. There is now a new development. I would like to mention what was also mentioned this afternoon: the clusters in Amsterdam and Rotterdam, of which we do not fully understand the source. The misunderstood expansion in North Brabant was mentioned this afternoon. Internationally, of course, there are also a number of changes. To sum it up, the OMT has said: listen, it is important to take further action now. Any measure you take, of course, could have been taken two years ago or three weeks ago. You take the measures that fit that stage at that time. That's how you naturally try to fight such a crisis, every time you search for the right balance, so that you don't have an overshoot and give a much too heavy medicine. Of course, we're gonna see how this works in the next few days. Then the OMT will advise us on whether more is needed. We'll be in education in a minute. There are good reasons, which I will outline in a moment, why we do not close primary and secondary education and the MBO. I really think we have good arguments for that. You can never guarantee that there will be no need for further action in the future. Van der Staaij asked for that. Not at the moment. It also depends on the stage you're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u182	But we're sticking with it. Last week, we were talking about you trying to prevent the virus. Last week, for example, we could have reported to people "go to work at home" and last week we could have already said "no events with larger groups." If you give all that kind of advice, can't you stop people from having that corona virus and spreading it? We might have been able to prevent those 614 infections from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u183	May I give an example of a discussion I had with Van Dissel last Monday? Mr. Van Dissel is just listening in to see if I'm doing him justice. I asked Monday, or was it Friday last week? In any case, at a previous meeting, Mr. Dissel, the boss of the RIVM, whether it would not be wise to advise at this time not to go to Grandpa or Grandma. Then he said: based on the spread we know now, the chances are greatest that grandpa and grandma will not be lit with a common flu, because the chances of them being lit with corona are really very small at that stage of the spread. If you look at where you stand now, you say: look, that spread is now less explainable on a number of points and has also increased a little further. Then the OMT says: listen, now it is wise to take that measure. So you take that measure for which it is also necessary. You could have taken any measure before, but at that point it doesn't matter very much. I say quite honestly about shaking hands: when we decided on Monday, it was really only necessary for Brabant and not for the rest of the Netherlands. Why did we do it for the whole of the Netherlands? Because you get something impossible with that handshaking of course when you say: in Brabant you should not shake hands and in the rest of the Netherlands you should. It's an easy measure anyway. Well, it wasn't that easy, as it turned out from my clumsy stuff there. But in itself, of course, it is an easy measure: do not shake hands. So we took it for the whole of the Netherlands. That's how you look every time, based on the information you have, which is wise now. You're gonna do that as soon as you can. So when we were on the phone this morning, we heard that the OMT is meeting today because there are a number of developments that really make it necessary to take some further measures today, for example not to visit Grandpa and Grandma. That will then be the state of play at that time. That didn't make much sense a few days ago. Then Grandpa and Grandma wouldn't have been lit with the flu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u184	Thank you for the in itself clear consideration. And yet the idea remains, also with us, that you are just behind the facts, because you can also see in other countries how the spread of the coronavirus is developing and you also know that there are 614 infections found in the Netherlands, but that there are far more than those 614. So, somewhere in the back of our mind, we do not, by constantly acting in this way, stay behind the facts, even if you look at other countries and see how that virus develops?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u185	Well, no. What are you doing? If a patient doesn't show sufficient improvement, you'll decide exactly at that time, and then you may have a delay of a couple of hours, but no longer have to increase the medication further. But if that disease isn't there with the patient, then you give an advice, for example, to visit Grandpa or Grandma; we advised last Monday not to do so at a time when it actually doesn't have an impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u186	Many parties often deal with the same issues. I'd still like to go to those stages. Imagine if the KNMI, when we're talking about the weather, says we're somewhere between code red and code orange. I have not seen such advice before. Even when it comes to the threat levels that we have in the Netherlands, the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism will not say: well, it is a semantic discussion at exactly what level of threat we are at. Everyone, including the Prime Minister, has said that we are now in a huge crisis. In such a crisis, communication and clarity are absolutely important. The question then is what stage we are in is far more than a semantic discussion. That is why I would like to have some clarity from the Prime Minister. What stage are we now in, the containment phase or the mitigation phase? The fact that you can take measures at any stage that fit into another stage is fine, but you have to be absolutely clear about where you are, because the Netherlands needs clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u187	I just said that. This afternoon, after discussion, we came to the conclusion that we are also testing for the press conference, which most of the Netherlands is still in the phase of containment, but that we are taking a package of measures that are also part of the mitigation phase. From the Chamber I get the feedback 'That's good too, so you keep each other sharp 'It's good to be much sharper about that and not have that ambiguity. I hear that. So if Mr Klaver asks if it is not better to say clearly what stage we are in next time, without ambiguity, then I agree with him. That, I think, is the value of this debate. If he asks me at the moment what the position is in it, then he has not yet taken the lesson of not being ambiguous, then I will just say what we have established this afternoon, because I cannot decide on my own as a historian that we are now, because that is convenient, in the mitigation phase. We are in the phase I have just outlined: we are in the phase of containment, containment, but we are taking a package of measures in which mitigation also plays a major role, while North Brabant is the exception, because we see that we are really in that next phase. That is perhaps the reason why we are now struggling with the exact way in which we should formulate it, because the situation in Brabant is different from that in the rest of the Netherlands. I'm fixing two things. First of all, your feedback not to allow that ambiguity to exist. I think that's a sensible conclusion. Second. If I am asked where we are now, I will give you an honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u188	The point is, of course, not that I am debating with a historian, but with the Prime Minister of this country. It is indeed his responsibility, even this evening, during this debate, to indicate what stage we are in. The fact that you test each other, as the Prime Minister says, and that you don't take every advice, is the same as when determining the level of threat. In my opinion, there is little discussion about what exactly the threat level should be: you follow what the experts say. It then deals with the measures that result from this. Then you have the political weighting of how far you go, because it is also about how far it disrupts society, how far it restricts democracy and all that sort of thing. But when it comes to setting such a level, it is not a political balance that we are always assured of. It is not a political consideration for NCTV to determine, already testing, what stage we are in. That is why it would be a good thing if, in my view, the experts indicated that we are now in the mitigation phase, the Prime Minister also said this evening: that is indeed the stage in which we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u189	No, the conclusion of the MCCb with experts this afternoon, when the OMT's opinion was discussed, is the conclusion I read here. When Van Dissel and I then prepared the press conference, I also said: we are in the containment phase, but we have a very mitigating package and Brabant is clearly in the mitigation phase. That's the conclusion the MCCb drew. I'm not gonna take that conclusion off the table as chairman of the MCCb right now. That is a political-administrative conclusion with the experts at the table on the basis of the OMT opinion. But I understand that you say: is it not wiser..... and I think that is true... to say immediately what stage it is not to allow that ambiguity to exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u190	The Prime Minister has indicated that the removal of flights from the risk areas is being investigated, but that this is not yet announced, because there may be goods coming with those people needed for vital processes in our society. Can the Minister promise that, until another decision is taken, the passengers arriving from at-risk areas will be screened, their temperature measured or quarantined?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u191	I would like to say that we take the opinion of the OMT very seriously. But when I asked for that decision before the debate tonight, I got feedback from the NCTV: boys, beware, we need to look at it very carefully. Just give us a minute to do that. And then we do. I can now hear what Mr Asscher is saying. I will come back to it in the second term or, until you have made the decision, you can screen the passengers, as Mr Asscher says. I'll see about that. I cannot answer that now, but I will respond to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u192	I do not dispute the opinion and the decision not to announce it yet, but there is no argument in that opinion to at least prevent contamination by passengers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u193	I get it. That's why I don't think it's a weird question at all. I'm gonna put that down as a civil servant. Of course, it would be best if we could announce tonight or tomorrow that we have done that research and that we are going to ban flights at risk. I'd love to. If that is not possible because it is unwise, then the sub-question is whether at least the passengers of those risk flights can be tested. I understand that question and see if I can answer it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u194	I hear the Prime Minister say that he is always looking at the situation in the Netherlands for the appropriate measures. He said a few weeks ago it was not appropriate to do all kinds of things, and now it is: universities close and meetings with more than 100 people are forbidden. In my speech I said it's actually kind of like looking at the stars. It's a long way away, and that's how you look at the past. That's also true here, because it takes a week or two weeks for you to see symptoms. Isn't it true that the Prime Minister is just looking wrong? He looks at the present, but he has to look at the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u195	Sure. On the basis of the experts' opinions, we are therefore looking at what further information is available. Of course, it is also measured at random at all kinds of general practitioners' posts. We get all kinds of other information on the basis of which we make the assessment of the patient's condition and whether the medicine should be increased. In addition, you have to check every time and at that time whether the measure you take is proportionate. What's the point? What we all don't want to do is to do something very bold, something cool, when, based on the information at the time, you actually know that it doesn't make any sense. At the same time, you don't want to do too much, but you certainly don't want to do too little. And you also want to do it on time as much as possible. One caveat fits and that is that you always have to make decisions on the basis of the information you have that is never 100%. That's always in crisis. I think Mr Baudet and I agree that you are trying to time that as precisely as possible. You do that based on a whole range of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u196	But we can see that we have now reached a point that you did not expect. Until recently, your assessment was that much less serious measures would be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u197	No, I never said that. I said we've got phases. You try to check in first, and if you can't, you're gonna be in the next phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u198	So something didn't work out? What you wanted didn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u199	No, wait a minute. That's not how it works. You can't fight a virus by saying: I can guarantee that this will work with the measures I take. That's not how it works. You're trying to fight that virus, but you're dealing with international circumstances, the development of the virus and so on. So you'll do whatever it takes to contain it. If this doesn't work, then it's not like your plan failed. That's not true. You know there's a big risk that you'll have to go from that first phase of containment to that second phase. This is the case in this crisis, with a highly virologic problem. Then you have to make sure that you take all the measures there again in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u200	Well, no, if the measures that have now been announced had been announced two weeks ago, we would now have far fewer infections. Isn't that obvious? So you didn't expect so many infections to come. We can determine that, can't we? This is evident from the words of yourself, but also from the words of the Minister of Health. He said, "It's not gonna go so fast. It's not coming this way. People are at very low risk." There are no preparations made with beds in intensive care. No preparations have been made for test material, painkillers, fever inhibitors, etc. Surely we can see that there is now a more serious situation than you thought two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u201	The link that Mr Baudet suggests between the assessment you are making about how fast it is spreading and the measures you are preparing for worse situations in the longer term is not there. This is because in the Netherlands we have for 15 years a system for addressing pandemics in which we can be scaled up very directly and quickly through the structures that are for that purpose. This allows you, even if things go faster, to react immediately. So I don't recognize the image that there are instantly too few beds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u202	But that's not my point at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u203	I'm gonna finish this, because I was still working on my answer. At least if Mr Baudet wants to hear it. The question he is asking is, of course, relevant. You have to work on the basis of an assessment of how it develops. Of course, you do that on the basis of a whole range of sources of information. If you then find at some point in the last 12 hours, on the basis of expert advice, that we are seeing a few things that we do not like and which also make it necessary and useful to take the measures that are effective at that stage, because we simply know that from all the knowledge that is present with the experts, then you must also take those measures. So you're not late, but then you're busy giving the patient extra medication if you need it. That's how it's supposed to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u204	I shall come back to my first point. So you are looking at the situation now, but what you need to do is look at the situation in two weeks' time. Because what is happening now in the Netherlands, we will not see for one or two weeks. I would therefore urge you once again to look at the successful example of Singapore. We are now in the Italian scenario, but we need to get into the Singapore scenario. They have taken very far-reaching measures there. They seemed way too early at the time, but that's where they were able to adjust the curve very well. So it didn't go up exponentially, it went down. There were no deaths in Singapore, but at first there seemed to be a great deal of contamination. So I repeat my point: do you not look at the present wrongly, rather than the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u205	Based on all the knowledge we have, you will of course make assessments and scenarios of how it develops in the coming weeks. On that basis, you make decisions. That's obvious. We're not barking at the moon, or what did you say? We are not looking at the stars; I believe Mr Baudet said so. No, you take the necessary measures on the basis of the facts and on the basis of the assessments and scenarios of how this develops. Today, we are adopting a whole package of measures which are very far-reaching for society and which we say are necessary because, apart from containing them, you are now clearly working on that next stage. It was in Brabant. You can see it in other places now. It is now important to do so for the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u206	In conclusion, however. If, in a day or four, we are going to see far more far-reaching measures from the government side, does that mean that you have not made the right assessment at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u207	No. Then this means, on the basis of the knowledge you have now, you are taking the measures you now say will translate into future developments. Then you see how this develops in daily practice. This is done from day to day and from hour to hour. If necessary, you will take further measures. That's how it works to fight a virus like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u208	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u209	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the sensitive issue of education. I understand all the questions and, of course, the concerns of the teachers, teachers and teachers. What's going on here is this. The effect of closing primary schools, secondary schools... On the previous point, Mr. Chairman? Or education? Okay, but then I'm gonna say something before there's any questions. At the moment we see no medical reason to close primary schools, secondary schools and MBO schools, because there are few infections in those schools. It is then the case that closing has practical consequences. You can see that in the OMT recommendation, as long as we have that cut. The OMT advises us and we've taken over this, as we've taken over almost everything from the OMT. We said, "Listen, it's wise not to do that." You need to keep those schools open because there aren't a lot of medical reasons to shut them down. I shall come back to Mr Van der Staaij's question in a moment's time, but that is not the case at the moment. The effect of closing these schools is social, because it is logical that many parents will stay at home to take care of their children. Those parents not only have work in a hospital, a GGD et cetera, but you also talk about police, fire department and all kinds of important social sectors. That's why we do that. I'm just gonna answer all the questions about the schools. For example, Mr Asscher asked about the communication surrounding it. You also heard back from the schools today that there are concerns about that. Moreover, it is important that if the children develop complaints, parents who keep children at home. We have made it clear that when children get complaints, they are obviously not allowed to go to school. But as long as parents keep their children at home with complaints, schools are still safe. That's the image we have now. Of course, I understand very well that there is care in schools, but closing them has a major impact on the effects of the crisis response. Mr Heerma asked what the cabinet could do to help schools. There has been consultation today with all the education sectors. It has also been mentioned that there are a lot of questions at the schools. We've seen the records of the domes. They say: if this is important to the Netherlands, we are prepared to do so. Of course, I appreciate that very much, because with all the concerns that exist, it is really important that we ensure that those sectors remain open. Of course, this requires a lot of flexibility and effort, especially in these uncertain times. Yet we ask the schools to do so. If this is not possible in a regular setting, the call to offer children in the school is an appropriate programme. This can be done, for example, if teachers are ill. This could include a combined team of teachers, volunteers and parents who are not currently working in a vital sector. If that really isn't possible, it's up to the school leadership and the board to make a decision. Of course, the Inspector-in-Office, because the question of compulsory education was raised in such a situation of force majeure. The directors agreed with the Education Councils that all practical questions should be answered. They're gonna be digitally available. That conversation will take place further. I would also like to add that if school leaders themselves have doubts about developments in the school, the school leader can always ask the GGD for advice on measures that can be taken. That's always local customization. We cannot decide that in The Hague, but there is room. The GGD will then advise. I answered the question about compulsory education. Mr Van der Staaij asked: is it true that you are already sure that the schools will never close? No, I can't say. In general terms, if the situation in the future shows that they are no longer at risk of being safe, then, of course, schools will still be closed down. But at the moment, where we are now, it is not necessary, either regionally or nationally. A decision has now been taken for the colleges and universities, but I have just heard it from the media, because I could not check it during the debate. The messages told me that they decided to close. They'd already decided to give remote lectures. This afternoon the advice was to do so to prevent you from having groups of more than 100 people, but now it has been decided from OCW and that is also stated in tonight's letter to go a step further and say: no, that is too complicated. The schools have decided to close themselves. Mr President, the question of schools. In short, I understand the concerns. It's not medically necessary right now, and if you do it, there will be huge logistical consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u210	Mr. Chairman. This is by far the worst proposal the cabinet has made today. I also tell the Prime Minister that this proposal is exploding in the Netherlands today. Our mailbox is exploding, and that won't be any different with colleagues. There are dozens of e-mails coming in about a minute from people who are furious about this, who don't understand that what we say for the rest of the Netherlands "if there are more than 100 people, you don't get together," the schools I said on average 300, 350 people sitting on it can just stay open. Let me read you a single mail. "A student was infected with the virus at my son's school, Mr. Wilders." "A teacher tested positive at my daughter's school." "Ten colleagues are at home." And so it goes on! It's the parents, or it's even the grandpas and grandmothers who bring those kids to school and come pick them up. You can't take the risk... I said in my first term: you really are playing with people's lives if you leave those schools open. There are ten, 15 countries in Europe, which have already closed all these schools in the first phase we have been in so far. We are one of the few countries that do not, and that is inconsistent. So I appeal once again to you, on behalf of many parents, grandparents and grandmothers of the Netherlands, to begin with and ensure that the schools in the Netherlands are closed. That's good for the parents, that's good for the children, that's good for the teachers and that's good for all the grandmothers and grandmothers of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u211	And so at the risk that where medically it is not necessary to make that decision now... That also has to do with the fact that on average children are just less comprehensible for this virus, as you can see in all these studies. And of course, if specific situations occur in schools, one can always report to the GGD to see if specific things need to happen for that one school. Then I get it. But the experts who advise us have just talked extensively about OMT saying to us and we have discussed this in detail this afternoon and also tested with each other, so: is this right, are you sure? You shouldn't be doing this as politics. They say: Please leave those schools open, because a the medical risks are limited and b if you close, you run the risk that in important sectors hospitals, the GGD, the police and the fire department, where important work needs to be done right now, parents should stay home to look after the children. Guys, that's the trade-off! So it's not that I think that these schools should stay open or that I don't see that people are worried about that. But I also try to look at the facts and appeal to the teachers. Despite the concerns that exist, it is important that we do so, so that we can continue to fill in those functions properly. This is important for the Netherlands, especially at this stage in the fight against crisis. I really need that. Or me? We really need that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u212	I say again to the Prime Minister: don't! Close up, all those schools. It is unfair that, as the universities close, as the HBO institutions close, now that people are being asked to work at home throughout the Netherlands, now that we are not even allowed to go to meetings with 100 people, you say to the schools, to the children, to the teachers, to the grandparents who bring the children to school, "Well, there is a greater interest. If you're at risk here and maybe get corona... You know, there are bigger interests." That's unfair. You shouldn't do that. That's playing with people's lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u213	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u214	Please don't do that! Yes, you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u215	But you're here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u216	And you don't have to do that! If you say "there are parents working in vital sectors," make sure you help those people. Then make sure you help those people with the shelter. You can't just say to the whole of the Netherlands "send your children to school and if a teacher is sick or if a teacher is sick, too bad, then you're unlucky." You can't do that. Close those schools, and now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u217	Mr Wilders ignored the opinion of experts who said that the risk of contagion in children is significantly lower than in adults. That's what we see in all the statistics. There's no discussion about that in the world. I still understand the concerns. If there are specific circumstances in schools, you go to the GD. But the people who advise us, from the care, from the GGD, from the RIVM, say to us: "Beware, we are very concerned about what happens when those schools close. Medically, that's not necessary right now. If you do, you run the risk of missing people at this stage of the crisis response who then have to look after the children at home instead of fighting the crisis." Mr. Chairman. I ask Mr Wilders: aren't these the dilemmas we face from the control of that crisis? Of course, I would like to say to Mr Wilders: we are closing the schools. I would love to, not because I love to give him his way, but because I understand very well that there are concerns with parents, teachers and teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u218	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u219	No, I'm just gonna finish him off. I get that. But we, from the crisis organisation, do not take all the opinions blindly and have once again challenged them in the sitting this afternoon, in which all the experts say to us: do not do this, because then you really take a risk with the occupation. Then it is very unwise not to take that advice when the medical risks are indeed limited and the risk is considerable that those functions have not been completed, however much I understand that people are concerned about that. That's my reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u220	That's not an argument, is it? You cannot say that, in the context of the fight against the crisis, we are throwing the parents and the grandfathers and grandmothers of the Netherlands on the bus? How dare you even suggest that? You say, "Well, nothing's wrong." Is it true, Mr Prime Minister, that the children in Poland, Italy, Denmark, Greece, the Czech Republic, Spain, France, Romania, Austria, Hungary, all countries that have closed schools this week or before... It's like they don't have the problem you're talking about right now. They all consider that they choose to protect their children and their parents and their grandparents and grandmothers. You should do the same. You have to do that now, today. Return to your steps and say: those schools are closing. I predict that this will happen, because the Netherlands will not accept it. I predict that if you continue this, the Netherlands will rise up, that people will take their children out of school, that teachers will call in sick mass, and I agree with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u221	I have the impression that a lot of teachers understand that the facts show that the medical risks of infection in these schools are small, however difficult it may be to deal with them, because you have concerns; I understand them very well. There are few infections in schools in the Netherlands. When you say at the same time to the girls, masters, teachers and teachers, we need you to do that important teaching work. And yes, I say to Mr Klaver I saw him in the media. That is, of course, primarily to teach, not to look after the children, but to teach. I know how important that is. We need that, too, because if we were to turn care into closing down schools, we would run a risk of shortages in important sectors. If that is the opinion, and I myself come to the conclusion, after having discussed it this afternoon with Bruno Bruins, with Ferd Grapperhaus, we as the politicians responsible and of course also the leaders of Education, then I think we do not have the arguments to go against that advice. Then I'll defend that here, too. Then I'll defend that here and then I'll understand very well that there are people who are worried. I would very much like to say yes to Mr Wilders, but on the basis of the knowledge I have now, I think that I would be taking too great a risk not fulfilling important functions in hospitals, health services, police and fire brigades.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u222	Education is not child care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u223	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u224	If the reason you're keeping schools open is because you're gonna have to take care of the kids, then we're gonna have to come up with something else. We've got mid-school care and after-school care. So that infrastructure is already there. It just requires a different interpretation. If the argument is that we need shelter, it can be organised in other ways. To be honest: the messages we received, right after the press conference, from teachers... I've rarely had so many reactions, because they really felt like they're getting kicked. I happen to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u225	Oh...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u226	You can say: yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u227	I saw Mr Klaver say that in the media this afternoon, but that is such nonsense. I'm a teacher myself. It's just not true. I know how important education is. I don't see teachers as a kind of babysitter, do I? Absolutely not. If that's misunderstood, then I really want that right here. You just need that important education. Then I did not say it correctly; I am pleased with the feedback, because then I did not say it correctly. The last thing I want to say here is that Clover and I totally agree that teachers are babysitters. But the additional effect is that you make sure that the parents can continue to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u228	There's another reason they feel bad. I'm the father of two kindergarten kids myself. Before Corona arrived, it was quite a task to make sure they washed their hands. There's two of them. Imagine having an entire class. We have agreed here in the Lower House that all doorknobs and the button of the microphone that we hold are all extra polished. In schools there are no extra cleaners who ensure that those tables are cleaned. That's what teachers have to do. In schools there is a lack of, for example, hand sanitizers to clean your hands. There's a lack of everything in those schools and the only thing teachers hear this afternoon is: I need you, solve that problem. But the question is: what do we do for these teachers? Are there gonna be extra cleaners at those schools? Are there gonna be additional resources to protect those teachers, too? What do we do for these teachers? If we were to do something for those teachers, I think they would be very willing to cooperate in all possible ways to keep this country running. Because they always do. We ask again "you must deliver, you must help us," but we must ask what we can do for them. Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, tutor himself, what do you do for those teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u229	That's exactly the right question. I couldn't agree more. That is why immediately this afternoon the leaders of Education met with the organizations of the schools. This whole subject shows, by the way, that in such a crisis you sometimes have to make very complicated considerations, because, of course, because of the concerns you would like to say to the schools anyway: close up. But again, I find that unwise. We don't think that's wise. That is why I very much agree with Klaver. So you have to talk to the schools. That conversation's going on right now. We'll get word on that tomorrow. That's exactly the kind of conversation you need to have. But still, this decision is one o'clock this afternoon. This debate began at 6.30 p.m. I don't know, four hours later, how those calls stand. All I know is that they found a place and that the conversation will continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u230	Here's the thing, you make a decision about what teachers have to do. The situation I'm describing is the practice. If you have a kindergarten class, you're responsible for the hygiene there. And maybe those kids aren't very comprehensible for this, but teachers do, and they also have relatives. They also have family members who may be ill or parents who are old, for whom they must provide care. So it's not just about the position of those kids. It's about the position of the teachers. We put them in the position that they are responsible for the hygiene at that school. Then it is not enough to say now: we still have to go into that conversation. I can tell you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u231	That conversation's going on. I just don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u232	I think I was talking. I can tell you what it takes. If we want to keep children in school, whether we are teaching or creating a care situation, and there are so many people together, additional hygiene measures are needed. Then you're gonna need cleaners. Then you need the right stuff and there aren't any. I want the Prime Minister now to promise that if those schools are to remain open, as of tomorrow or at least Monday, those things will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u233	I say here that these talks are now taking place in order to identify exactly what the schools need to do. I agree with Klaver. But I cannot have a debate here and inform myself about it. I'll be watching that phone all the time. Tonight was really pure because of the updates about corona and not about other matters, I can assure you. One of you got annoyed by that. I always try to do that as minimally as possible, but I don't have a chance to inform myself about how these conversations are going to go. I understand Klaver's question, and he's right too. One more time, huh? It's like we're thinking: it's so nice to keep those schools open. That's not good at all. I fully understand Mr Wilders' request, but at the end of the day, in such a crisis, you have to make difficult trade-offs. Maybe we don't agree on that balance. It could be. Mr Klaver says, if I understand him correctly, that I may still be able to see him, but you will have to provide the right support. Others may say "okay, agree" and others will say "don't do it." These are really the difficult considerations in a crisis. It's not always very precise. You can't always say this is very clear and that's how we're gonna do it. This is the difficult balance between, on the one hand, a low medical risk, but very serious concerns, and, at the same time, the need to keep those parents at work in those important places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u234	Look at Germany, for example. Let us not pretend that all the schools are closed there either. There's an area where you need to close down. It has also been said that there is care in schools for children, for example parents who work in care, who cannot be cared for at home. Why was this choice not made for the Netherlands? Because that customization was also possible. Why wasn't that choice made?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u235	I told you, it's not just about care staff. It's a lot of other people, too. I mentioned them: people in the police and fire department and in vital sectors such as our energy supplies. So it's not like you can say it's only in the care, but the care is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u236	The point wasn't just about the care. In Germany, all these vital sectors are being looked at. It's about all the kids who can't be taken home. Because, they say, we absolutely want to prevent grandpas and grandmothers from taking those kids. So they've organized other forms of shelter. Why wasn't that choice made in the Netherlands? Again, that infrastructure is indeed there. There's already child care in those schools. You can scale that up. You can choose other forms. Why wasn't that chosen by the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u237	We have chosen this measure on the basis of extensive discussion, on the basis of opinions we have received on it. There is no single education policy in Germany. It's different from country to country. Germany consists of 17 Länder. Education is a competence of the Länder. Of course, we are also trying to see exactly what another country is doing and what you can learn from it. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u238	Mr. Hijink. Yes, Mr. Clover? Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u239	Finally, Mr President. It's not an answer to the question. I ask why you did not choose this because I want to know if that was an option. The impression I get is that the most important consideration has been: "This country must go crazy; the economic consequences would be enormous if we were to close down education now. Where are these kids going? How do we make sure all these people stay at work?" And there were options other than sec keeping education the way it is right now. You could have chosen other forms of care for those children for whom no home solution was available. What I am asking is: has that been a consideration? Has that been a consideration or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u240	We have taken this decision this afternoon, on the basis of the opinions we have received, considering what is best now. What Mr Klaver is suggesting now, perhaps he does not mean that there are still many economic reasons. I have said it before: there is only one motive that plays and that is public health. What does that have to do with it? Yes, then all of this has economic consequences. That's what I'm here to talk about. But keeping the schools open is not because of limiting the economic impact. That is to ensure that the people we need remain available in the sectors that are so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u241	These answers from the Minister have a very high content 'everyone is crazy except us'. Look at what's happening internationally. There are so many countries that decide to close schools. Here it is maintained that it is more logical to keep the schools open, so that staff working in healthcare, for example, can continue to do that work. That's a very strange argument. I think the Prime Minister should come up with a better story on why this line was chosen. Mr Klaver asks a fair question: why have the alternatives not been examined? If the argument is that these schools should remain open, because otherwise staff from hospitals and other vital sectors would no longer be able to work, then for the same reason you could close MBO and secondary education for the time being. These young people can be fine at home without being dependent on their parents. So if that's the argument, then it just rattles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u242	We know that in children up to 10 years of age and actually up to 20 years of age, the risk of infection is very low. Then you talk about these sectors. We also know that it is still different: of course, once they are 18 or 19, they don't have to have their parents at home anymore, but younger children do. There are also many sectors where VMBO and MBO are integrated, so pulling it apart is still a complicated one. That's what you were talking about. Can you treat the MBO right away with the HBO and the wo? It has been said: no, let's align the MBO with secondary education. Why? Partly because of the integration, in many cases, of those continuous learning lines of vmbo and mbo. Why are we doing this? Again, for the reasons I have mentioned a few times. We talked earlier tonight about the OMT and the question whether you're in one phase or the other. Then it's said, why didn't you take it literally? I understand. The answer is: we talked about it and eventually we came to this. Next time, better, tight, one phase. The OMT says "do this," based on careful consideration. We have talked about this and we have taken it over. I think it's a lot to do, if those who fight the crisis for us are involved, everyone who also looks from the administrative side "do you have to do this?" If so, do not take over after you have asked. Then I agree with Klaver: you should also see how you can support that well. Of course, he's right about that. Those conversations are taking place, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u243	Still. Even so, the reception function of a school remains more important than avoiding contact between, for example, these children, these pupils. That's a very strange one. It's not for nothing that schools close all over the world. The Prime Minister is right, children who have the virus are becoming relatively less ill. Only, internationally, there is a lot of discussion about whether children can spread the virus through schools in other ways. We had another school this evening in Balk, Friesland, where the virus was diagnosed. How does the Prime Minister prevent us from seeing one school after another, where the virus will appear, in a chaotic fashion? And how...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u244	That's what the experts say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u245	I'm not quite done yet. How do we prevent us from leaving the direction, which is supposed to be here, to arbitrariness, to fate, and coming up with a scenario that we do not want, namely that we have a chaotic closure of schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u246	Again. I'm kind of repeating myself, but that's okay. I understand that it simply raises a lot of questions politically and socially. Preferably you would close the schools; yes of course, no discussion about it. The experts tell us that the medical risk is limited. If anything happens in schools, you have to act on it, of course. That's what I'm supposed to do. There are 8,000 primary schools in the Netherlands and 900 secondary schools, so it can always be that in that huge volume of schools in the Netherlands corona cases are detected at some point. Then you have to act by school based on that. In general, however, the medical risk of contamination in these schools is small and the effect of closing them is considerable. That is why the experts have advised us that we do not have any arguments for not taking that advice to keep the schools open, now that we can, so that those important functions in society can continue to be properly fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u247	Last question, Mr President. Has the government considered, at least in those places where RIVM now claims to see local spread of the virus over the population and where the risk of children coming into contact with the virus at school is much higher, taking additional measures, so limited to those areas? Of course, it's very profound when you live on Texel, where there's very little going on, and all the schools close. That's a big deal. But has it been considered to take further measures in those areas, for example in North Brabant and Limburg, where local distribution is taking place, than in the rest of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u248	That's not the OMT's advice. They say: the risk of infection in small children is so small that this special treatment is not advised. You can see that in the statistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u249	That's not the question. I am not just asking what has been advised, because then we will get exactly what Minister Bruins does every time, namely to hide behind the advice of RIVM. I ask the government why certain choices are made on the basis of an opinion. If you get advice, you take it seriously, but I think it's always a political and administrative consideration of what decisions are being taken. So I do not think the Prime Minister should hide behind RIVM's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u250	Nor is it the case that there will be an opinion on the fence and that we will then discuss it. You do that together. The opinion, together with some of the draftsmen of the opinion, will then be at the table. An example of this came along on the previous subject. It was then about the question: what stage are you in now and how exactly do you describe it? I'll check again. Well, I guess I'll give it to you, then. This must therefore be noted for the second time. I would just like to ask if there is any reason for this. To my best knowledge, that was not mentioned at the meeting this afternoon. I'm just not quite sure we explicitly asked, so I get that question. We're going to check whether that was explicitly the issue, but my estimate is that because of the very low risk it doesn't matter whether it's a risk area or not. But that's an assessment, so I'm gonna double-check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u251	I'll take a look at the interrupting microphone. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u252	The Prime Minister said that public health is the decisive argument. So you have to do everything you can to prevent circulation. It is true that the medical risk for young children is limited if these children are healthy, but the risk of circulation is indeed there. That's what the OMT writes. This means, in my view, that the cabinet has been held to do as much as possible to maintain vital functions and prevent circulation. In that light, the Prime Minister bases himself on assumptions that are not substantiated. He says there are few infections in the schools, but we don't know that. There hasn't been any tests. There are no samples. Especially in the fireplace areas it seems premature to me, because you often see that the children of infected adults are indeed carriers of the virus and can also be more spread. I have the next question. If you assume that you want to limit circulation as much as possible, why not exclude mbo and vo from this measure? It really doesn't make sense to think that parents all stay home because an MBO student has to study at home. That's an insult to that MBO student and to those parents. And b, let's take a look at the practical situation at primary schools. How's that going? At 8:25, hundreds of parents rushed their toddlers through a narrow corridor. They do that with more than a hundred at once, and then they turn those kids in to a class that hasn't been cleaned, except by the teacher. So what else do you need to limit circulation? So question one is: why isn't that group limited? Then question two. I also understand that in a crisis like this, you don't shut down the schools in one go. Is the Prime Minister prepared to work on a further additional opinion, as he does when travelling from risk areas? Is he willing to make that more precise to prevent circulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u253	Wait a minute. Maybe I can say yes to that last one. I'm gonna think about a little more advice to avoid circulation. I assume all that was taken into account by the OMT. Of course, all the experts are in there and they will not come up with such advice if they have not. I am going to ask whether this has been explicitly discussed in the OMT, but I honestly do not see the link with traveling from risk areas, because there is just a strict advice that we want to take over and on which we want to do a few more checks. For this there is also a strict opinion from the OMT, of which part of the Chamber says: you should not take over. Let's just mark that very precisely. The OMT doesn't give that advice because it says "it's so nice to keep the schools open," but we need those people in their positions and the risks are limited. Asscher asks whether the OMT has also explicitly weighed the risk of circulation. I'll get that checked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u254	That's good, but it's actually also about an administrative choice. If the Prime Minister says here, "I would prefer to close those schools to prevent circulation, in the interests of public health," then that entails the obligation to consider how to minimise that risk of circulation. This brings with it the obligation to answer Klaver's question, namely: can we be on our way to Monday, because we understand that this could not be done for tomorrow, that we do not ensure that we support people who need shelter and who work in vital functions, much more focused, and can we close schools in those fireplaces, because it is relatively much circulation? In other words, I understand that you were afraid to make that decision today, or couldn't, on the basis of that advice as well. But that advice doesn't say there's no circulation. It says that circulation is probably limited when people keep sick children at home. Put that against practice: hundreds of parents in a narrow corridor and almost adults in secondary education and vocational education. My request is: make a sharper choice on the way to next week, to avoid circulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u255	Yes, but then the question is too vague. I'm gonna make this one sharper anyway. I'm sticking to the decision we made, because that's the OMT's advice. I think it is important to follow that advice if we do not have strong arguments against it. This is important in the eyes of the experts, otherwise you run the risk of a shortage of staff in certain sectors. That's one. I'm gonna find out if that advice explicitly takes into account the risk of circulation. I think that's a fair question, so we're gonna find out. Point two is Klaver's question to see in the talks with the schools how you can support them as well as possible to do so. That is what I want to do, but I am not going to say that we are going to gradually scale down this measure, because that is not the advice we have received from the experts and I have no arguments to go against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u256	The question was not vague at all, but very precise. When it comes to preventing circulation, start by excluding secondary vocational education and secondary education. Two: realizing that there can indeed be circulation in those narrow schools, see if you can find smarter methods, so that on the one hand not to let the soil fall among all those people who are working for us and to prevent circulation on the other hand. That is not a vague question, but a precise question. If the lead is: preventing circulation, public health first, then you are obliged to answer that question exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u257	I am sticking to my previous answer, because I do not understand that other point. I'm gonna check to see if that point of circulation in those narrow corridors has been taken into account in that advice to us to do so. I did not put that question explicitly this afternoon, so I am going to put it explicitly, and I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u258	In that case, I would also like to see the response of the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u259	I'll tell you what they tell me, and I assume you'll trust me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u260	It seems through this debate that education in times of a pandemic can only serve as childcare or support for other economic activities. The most important question, in my opinion, is also at the time of a pandemic: how can we ensure that our children in the Netherlands can continue to receive good education for as long as possible and not suffer from such a pandemic? Having said that, during this debate I get a lot of emails and apps from school leaders and teachers in the south of the country. They have heard in the debate earlier this evening that there is code orange in North Brabant and there is code yellow in the rest of the country. Those school leaders in the south of the country are now being asked by aldermen, teachers and parents what will happen tomorrow or next week at their school. By not making that choice in The Hague, we impose a very great responsibility on those school leaders and teachers in, in particular, North Brabant. My very specific question to the Prime Minister is whether it is not wise to take further measures for the largest fireplace in our country, North Brabant, where there is code orange, and to close the schools for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u261	No, because then I will depart from the advice given by the experts, on the basis of which you want to avoid job vacancies in important sectors. The experts say that this is not a significant risk to public health. Guys, pay attention, we're really micromanaging ourselves right now. I think that's really risky. No, I'm just as firm. I don't think we need to convince each other that we all want to close those schools. We don't have to yell at each other. I agree with Wilders. But there's a reason not to. I've said before that I'm going to find out, at the request of an earlier question from Asscher, if it's considered a school in a place where there's a lot of corona outbreak. I'm going to find out if that's taken into account, but if I were to say, as Mr Jetten suggests, that we are taking that measure for the whole of Brabant, I would deviate from the advice of the crisis committee in order to do so. I'm reporting here now. Everything may be challenged, if I may put it that way, but we are trying to put out that fire with all the instruments we have. This is an instrument. We have to control the fire extinguishing, but the others put out that fire. The people who are putting out the fire say: Mark, Ferd, Bruno, please, do this, because closing is not necessary now and we are at risk of occupying those functions. I think it's fine to challenge that very extensively here. I'm fine with that, but I'm also asking for the role-sharing. In the end, this division of roles is that it is also a bit up to us in that fire to finally make that call and to make that assessment, no matter how difficult it is. I'd also like to close all those schools tomorrow. Of course, we all agree on that. Don't argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u262	It is certainly not my role to make a decision about closing schools from behind the interrupt microphone, but I think "micromanages" is a bit of a faint term. We have established a few times earlier this evening that the cabinet has simply deviated from the OMT's advice. So don't come up with the answer all the time: yes, the OMT advises us to keep the schools open for the time being, so you shouldn't complain as a room. You yourself deviate from the OMT on a number of points. My question is very specific: can you move into school leaders and teachers working in North Brabant? They note that I cannot guarantee the safety of school children, because I do not have the people to put the school in good shape, because I already have teachers sick at home, because there are grandparents and parents who are worried because they have to come to the schoolyard where they have hundreds of people in the schoolyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u263	I deviate, we deviate, not deviate from the OMT. The OMT has issued an opinion on the phase we are in. We have talked about this and we have jointly determined how we deal with it. That's not different. There's a piece of advice. It's not like the OMT is delivering an opinion and it's about the fence, is it? You do this together, you talk about it. On that point and on the issue of travellers at risk, I have already said that we want to take over, but we are still trying to figure out a few things. So we don't deviate from the OMT. I'm just gonna outline how these conversations are going. Here is also an opinion from the OMT. Those are the people who are putting out the fire for us now. They say, "Don't do this! We questioned that this afternoon and then we said together: okay, we get it, it's much easier to close the schools, but then we don't. What do you think? There was Arie Slob and there was Ingrid van Engelshoven, the Ministers of Education. Of course, they would like to choose one line and say: all schools are closed. You'd love to. But the people who put out the fire for us say: don't do that, because we are really worried about what that means for some of those functions in the short term. Well, you know... So I'm gonna figure out a few things for the second term. I mention the virus spread point that Mr Asscher mentioned, and a few other questions: are the talks with the schools going on about how we can support them? I'm gonna find out. But I'm still arguing for a moment... That's not micromanaging. No, I get all the questions. Then I used the wrong word. Only, in the end, we're gonna make another decision. And the consideration we have to make is: are we going to give the firefighter the instruments requested by the firefighter? This is the instrument they are asking for. We have no strong arguments not to give them that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u264	Finally, Mr President. I welcome the Prime Minister's earlier commitment to return to risk flights within a few days. I can imagine that we cannot reach final conclusions on education in this debate tonight. I would ask him to keep us informed in the coming days about the progress of discussions with the educational field. Because we are talking here all the time about the firefighter who is putting out fire, but we are asking for primary education to hold the firefighter's hose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u265	Absolutely! Agreed. I agree. I'm not gonna do that. That's what the rulers of Education do. Because that's also part of the structure we have. Grapperhaus will explain a little bit about that. With the MCCb and the crisis club, we must ensure that we take the necessary medical decisions. The implementation of this is, of course, the responsibility of those in charge. So these are questions that go to the Ministers of Education. They will inform you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u266	I understand the discretion and choice of the cabinet. The OMT advises. You talk about it, you take over, and you're gonna cut that knot. It is important, however, to keep the freedom to adjust it per day. On Monday, the world may look different again. The inconvenience at the Room was a bit on the flights. There were a lot of questions about that and suddenly we find out through the OMT's advice that the OMT has already said something about it. That doesn't come back in the letter. So there was some discomfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u267	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u268	However, I would like to ask a supplementary question on education. We talked about secondary education and the MBO. I would like to draw attention to a special branch of education: special education. That's not mentioned. These are children who are physically extra vulnerable. They're children with syndromes who are sick a little faster. So my question to the cabinet is to take a very special look at special education in that consultation. Because it may well be that there is a greater risk there than in other parts of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u269	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u270	So my appeal is: look at that education, because that has very special and special children, who sometimes need a little extra protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u271	Agreed. Taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u272	In the field of education, I asked about the opinion of the Health Council of 2005, the government of which, through Minister Hoogervorst of Health, said at the time: we recommend closing schools during a pandemic and ordering events where many people meet. The second is now also on the agenda. It was then about measures that you should take.....shapes, preparations.....for a flu pandemic. I wonder if that advice from the Health Council was taken again at the time. Is that weighted, too? What would make it different now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u273	I'm gonna improvise a little bit, but I'm gonna ask you to make sure I say it right. I'm not familiar with that 2005 advice. I have heard the question, quite frankly, but I do not come up with a prepared answer. But I'm improvising. This virus, strangely enough, does very little to little children. That is of course a difference with other colds, with other flu epidemics, which often go through the children. So I can imagine that's why. But we are going to put on paper why a 2005 Health Council opinion says "don't do it, close schools," and why that is not said now. I suspect this is it, but I'm gonna double-check it through official assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u274	It's good to hear that. On the other hand, you could say that it was also about situations where even vaccines could still be available. This pandemic is not really the case. Anyway, I like to hear that. We also get a lot of reports from people who are worried about very large schools, where students sometimes make a lot of travel movements. Has that also played a role in the trade-offs? Is there not an increase in risks if you have extended it with travel movements via public transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u275	The conclusion is that children up to the age of 20, young adults and children, are not comprehensible for this virus. On the basis of that recital, it has been said that the medical risk is limited and the logistical impact on parents is greater if that education is closed. So don't do that. So I guess travel movements don't matter that much because, again, these kids aren't so sensitive to that virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u276	The Prime Minister was right to say that, and I understand that too, it is always a matter of making choices, even in crises, with the uncertainties that exist. Of course, everyone's a little scared, too. It's still a new virus, we don't know it at all; can't the risk be just a little bigger than we thought? Then you'll have another big spread in one go. That's why I think it's gonna keep bumping on this subject of education that you're saying: is this really the best choice we can make? I understand the Prime Minister says we're dealing with that advice. That's what we've chosen now. But I would also regret it if this debate, which is useful in itself, now became one or the other and we cannot come back from it. My question is therefore: what is the scope, also heard here and the discussion that is going on in the country, which, in a manner of speaking, is already tomorrow, on the basis of the facts of the matter, to weigh again clearly again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u277	Always. If there were new insights that children would... Then, of course, you have to make other decisions right away. But there really aren't, and there aren't in the world. So there seems to be a lot of consensus about it. On that basis, experts say this is the way to do it. But, of course, if that picture changes, we are going to take other decisions and we will get advice immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u278	I still have one more question. Tonight was a new fact that France is taking far-reaching measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u279	In regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u280	But that also means a more differentiated approach than in the Netherlands. Are we also learning from arguments from other countries in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u281	Of course, of course. There is very intensive consultation between the Browns of Europe, but also between what is under the Browns of medical experts in Europe. There is very intensive consultation and a lot is being compared. I myself have almost daily contact with the Benelux colleagues. Yesterday I had contact with Merkel and the day before yesterday, of course, there was the European Council. There is a lot of contact and underneath there is, of course, a lot of consultation of the medical experts, to exchange and share experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u282	Finally, Mr President. The Prime Minister's argument about the availability of people for vital functions is something they have to do with in other countries, isn't it? Apparently, they can fit a sleeve to that. If you could further reduce the risks by taking more far-reaching measures and closing down certain schools or many schools and on the other hand finding alternatives so that people are sufficiently available, could we not go a step further?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u283	Yes, but again, the people who advise us and work in the crisis organisation say: we need this. Well, then you'd have to have good arguments not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u284	I still have a question about education. The Prime Minister constantly says that children are less susceptible to the virus. That's what experts say. But there is also a virologist at Erasmus University, Mr Bart Haagmans, who said in the newspaper the day before yesterday: people can also have mild cold symptoms. They may not be sick at home, but they may be the spreader of the virus. Now everyone with little kids knows that kids always have a cold. You're already happy if they don't have a cold for maybe two or three days. How do you see that difference? Suppose you do not take action and say: we are not going to close the schools by government, but leave it to the institutions themselves. There are now universities and HBO institutions that say: we are closing our doors, because the fight against the virus is our first priority. People from MBO education then think: why doesn't my school close? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this creates uncertainty and chaos?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u285	There are of course different ages and there is a different risk profile. I've explained that a few times. There will probably be someone who does not agree with that in the virolog world, but the considerable body of opinion in that world is that the infectiousness of small children and even young adults of about 20 years of age is very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u286	But there are also people who are already getting emails from their nursery, which says: if your child has a cold, even with mild complaints, then keep your child home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u287	That's my advice, too, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u288	But little kids always have a cold. In primary schools children are very often colds and ill. Mild complaints? I can imagine that both teachers and parents... The Prime Minister can laugh about it, but it is true. I ask the Prime Minister: take the lead, because there are institutions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u289	I do. You just don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u290	No, because there are all kinds of institutions that make their own decisions and that creates chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u291	Yeah, listen, eventually we're gonna have to row with the belts we have. I've said a few times that parents should keep children with complaints at home. It is important to say that in this regard. As long as they do, schools are safe. That's the image we have right now. That is what is literally advised us by the experts. So that's the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u292	The question to the Prime Minister is: what if, in a week or two weeks' time, it turns out that we should close the schools? How is the Prime Minister going to ensure that this is done in an orderly manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u293	Then we close them, if we have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u294	In what way and what will happen to the crèches?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u295	We're all gonna look into that, but right now it's not up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u296	I see you standing, Mr Hijink, but you have spoken extensively on this point. I shall go first to Mr Heerma and Mrs Van Esch. I also see Mr Peter Kwint walking to the interrupting microphone. First Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u297	I believe that the Prime Minister in this debate, when not all the political parties here say that all schools should be closed, does seem to answer a lot of questions as if that question had been asked. That is why it is very specific: a heavy responsibility is placed on the schools. I think the Prime Minister shares that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u298	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u299	Does he also share that the cabinet then has a heavy responsibility to actively think, contribute and give space, and not to wait for what the schools are talking to? Does he agree that the cabinet should take responsibility for actively helping them to fulfil that heavy role?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u300	I agree with Mr Heerma. I'm trying to say this conversation started this afternoon. I agree with him. That's what the rulers of Education do. I don't do that myself; I can't. The leaders of Education started these talks. I just said something about that. I very much agree with Mr Heerma. This is also in line with Mr Klaver's comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u301	So the cabinet, given the heavy responsibility that lies with schools and the concerns that come to us all from the educational field, is actively looking at how it can contribute to giving the schools the opportunity and space to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u302	Yeah, that's already started. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u303	However, I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's remark that he would like to close the schools. Then the next question remains with us. If the Prime Minister really wanted to close them down, should we not now look specifically for the solution to close them? Because if he wants to do so, and if several parties also want to do so, then we must now look à la minute for the solution for the parents who work in those crucial jobs, to whom we are all right to say: please, keep working? We must then offer them the solution they need and then close the schools. Then that's our most important point for now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u304	Once again, keeping open is a sensible measure to keep these parents available for the important work they do, given the low risks of contamination in schools, provided that you keep the children with a snot house at home. In the combination of these considerations, we have decided this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u305	But I insist that you say yourself: I would rather close those schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u306	There are a lot of things in life I would like to do, but they are not sensible, because then there are other effects that are not good for crisis management.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u307	But that is precisely the point we should therefore take up. How do we find a solution for the people we need so much, to whom we all now say: please, come to work? Then you have to find a solution for those people, don't you? We will then send a very different message to the Netherlands. Then we say: we want to close these schools, that is what we are striving for, but we are now looking for the solution to do so. That is a really different message from what we are delivering now. And if that's what you want...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u308	The message is that this is the most sensible measure to keep these important people available for the labour market. Sorry, it's going a little in circles.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u309	The tricky thing is that we talk circles, also because it feels like a double advice to me. You say: I want to, but I can't, and the advice gives me a reason to do it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u310	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u311	But I think you can do it and we must find another solution. Maybe it's not possible right now because you find it difficult; that might be possible. But I think it can and we are looking for a different solution for all those who are so badly needed in healthcare and other crucial sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u312	Again, I disagree. This is a logical way of dealing with this capacity problem, for all the reasons I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u313	Mr Hijink, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u314	The Prime Minister just said that you need to give the fire department the right resources to put out the fire. I very much agree with him. But if one of the few countries is still putting out water while the rest is putting out foam, then you must be able to explain very well why you are doing that. We're still missing that story. I would like to receive a letter from the government tomorrow explaining why the different countries, as well as the different RIVMs we have in Europe, come up with such different considerations so that we can get a clear picture of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u315	No, I'm not gonna promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u316	I am not quite finished, because I would like to add something to that. In France, exactly the opposite of what is being said here is being done. That is where it is said that, because children have mild symptoms, they are more spread out of the virus. So that's exactly the opposite. I'm certainly not gonna go to motion tonight or call behind the microphone that all schools should close. By the way, I understand that in Belgium the schools are closing too. But we can ask why our approach is so different from that of the rest of Europe, in the rest of the world? I would like the cabinet, in consultation with the RIVM, to explain the considerations that are being made in other countries in order to close schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u317	No, we're not gonna do that. There's really no time for that right now. We really need to manage the crisis right now. One more time: parents have to keep their children at home when they have complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u318	The Prime Minister is now waltzing over it with: we do not have time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u319	No, I'll answer. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u320	No, you don't have to do it yourself. There are a lot of people working on the corona virus. I do not find it illogical that, if our approach differs from what our neighbours and other countries in the world are doing, we in the Chamber are asking us to compare the arguments on the basis of which schools are closed in France, Belgium, the US and in many other places, while we are arguing the exact opposite. I think that's just a good idea. If that commitment is not forthcoming, we shall propose it by way of motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u321	Then we'll wait for the motion. But again, parents have to keep children with complaints at home. That's important. Furthermore, this is a question in the category nice to have and not need to have. I'm not going to say yes to a "nice to have" question right now. There's no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u322	Mr. Chairman. I think that's too skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u323	I do not think that the analysis you are asking for is essential to underpin this decision. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u324	This is too easy for me. Everything that we said two or three weeks ago that it wasn't going to happen and that it wasn't going to happen that fast is happening right now. This means that we need to take necessary measures to promote public health. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister says that children are less at risk of contagion. Now we know that there is a consensus there about the corona virus, that there is still good research going on and that we do not know everything yet. I would like to know from the Prime Minister on which he bases that children are less susceptible to infection, with a scientific basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u325	That's the OMT's opinion with all the expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u326	So that's another too easy answer. This ignores what I said earlier, namely that there is currently little information on the corona virus, Covid-19, and that there are countries such as France, where regions are five times larger than in the Netherlands and where schools are currently closed, and Italy, where schools are closed in regions that are much larger than in the Netherlands. And here the Prime Minister insists that there's really nothing going on, that he might actually want to close schools, but he's not going to. Again, on what basis is this decision taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u327	Our virologists, present in our consultative bodies, the best of the world, RIVM and GGD's, working together in the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u328	Are the virologists in Italy, France and Spain crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u329	I gave the previous answer. I have already said something about the virologists in Italy, Spain or other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u330	We can talk about our virologists. They said a few weeks ago that the risk that the virus would come from Asia to the Netherlands was rather small. Right now, we're in a crisis situation. The Prime Minister can now sit back, but this is serious. I can predict that you do not have to have studied for ten years that we will be in a different situation next week and that the Prime Minister will have to come back to his steps. It is important that we take the necessary measures, especially now that exams are coming in in secondary education. There'll be exams in eight weeks. We are now postponing a decision which makes the situation worse. Government is not based on advice in the delusion of making decisions. It's also forward-looking. Ensure that there are exams in a few weeks' time and that a lot of students are going through an interesting phase. What's the Prime Minister gonna say to those students? What will the Prime Minister say to the school leaders, the teachers, the teachers and all those people involved in education? "The labour market goes first"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u331	It is quite conceivable that further decisions should be taken on a number of points and that some decisions should be revised on points, because you always have to incorporate the latest insights into the fight against such a crisis. Right now, this is the knowledge we have based on the best advisors we have. These advisers say: 'A that group runs a very small risk and b politics, please keep the schools open, because we need it'. We know the concerns and we have enormous respect for all the people who work there and for the concerns they have. We take them very seriously, too. But considering everything, they make a huge contribution by keeping those schools open, so that we can keep the people in those important positions at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u332	The longer I listen to the Prime Minister, the more I become convinced that the Prime Minister is really wandering around here. Once again, over a considerable period, it will not be long, we will see that this decision will be reconsidered and that the Prime Minister will say: it was not necessary then, but it is now necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u333	Yeah, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u334	Just as we said during oral Question Time last Tuesday that we are in the phase. Now we're in the next phase. This is going to happen again soon. I ask again why the Prime Minister refuses to look ahead and not, on the basis of the delusion of the day and the advice of this day, to take decisions that are going to hit a lot of people hard. This is very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u335	I have heard you, but these decisions have been made precisely on the basis of the expectation of how things are going to develop and the need to keep the capacity available for the important work compared to the limited risks in education. And yes, the insights about it can change. In a crisis, insights can change. So anyone who now predicts that an insight changes somewhere can be quite right. Then I will be the first to say that together with my colleagues. I'll say there's a new, different insight and we're gonna do it differently. We base ourselves on the insights we have now, and of course we think ahead as well. We're not thinking backwards, but we're thinking ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u336	I think we all want the same thing here in the Chamber. We want to contain, combat and ensure that this crisis is over as soon as possible. But now I hear a Prime Minister holding on to a position, while the whole Chamber says: think about it again. I just want to make one last appeal to the Prime Minister. Why doesn't he say now: "I hear that the majority of the Chamber wants me to take a good look at this again. I'm gonna take another good look at it and I'm gonna come back to it." He's gonna get this persistence back one of these days, and I'm not gonna give him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u337	That could be very good. Then I'll be standing here again and I'll say, "You were right." It's possible. But in the end, it's not like we're running a crisis here with 150 people and a cabinet. We need to run this crisis, and we are doing so on the basis of advice. We'll answer to the Chamber for that, but I can't accept it, I'm not going to... If we think that we should follow these opinions on this point, we listen to all the criticisms, we try to answer all the questions as well as possible and we see how we can best shape things in the implementation, but in the end we have to make those decisions again. I'm sorry, that's the way things are at the stage we're in. Mr. Chairman. Finally, questions had been asked to me about the economic effects of the crisis, because the questions on foreign affairs have already been dealt with by the various interruptions. Moreover, I can reassure you on one point: there are no masks going to Greece. That's not the point. So that point is out of the world. Anyway, that leaves the subject of economics. There are, of course, serious concerns about this. I don't think we can solve this in detail tonight, but I agree with those who say that you can't just refer to the filled buffers. That's true, of course. It is a fact that our sovereign debt is so low that we as the Netherlands can cope with all kinds of additional expenses, such as rising WW charges or other items, because we are strictly 10%, or perhaps a little more, of our national income. These are very serious amounts, which are also micro-translated into WW, shorter working hours and all kinds of other things. Hopefully that won't be necessary. So that's why that macro piece has relevance to fighting the crisis, but I also agree with those who say you need to look further. What we have sent today is a first overview of the instruments we have, which we have set in motion and which may, moreover, increase considerably in scope. This reduction in working time, for example, may well be even greater if you do not know that, or that increase in the guarantee appropriations for SMEs and tax delays. Those are all measures. I've heard what was said about the tax authority's accessibility. That's what we need to look at. I can't fix that right now. Those are the measures we have. We always come up with updates over the next few days and weeks. We will come up with additional measures, also very much in line with what is happening in Europe, how the crisis is developing and what it means for the economy. Then a few more specific questions. The VVD has asked what measures the cabinet intends to take to ensure that we maintain a level playing field. There, for example, the extension of the guarantee scheme applies to SMEs to mitigate temporary liquidity problems, thereby increasing the balance of the playing field between companies. In this way, the State is taking more risk of financing companies instead of the bank. This is not a question of compensation but of credit to companies that are in a very healthy state, which you do not want to fall over because of the crisis. Another question was: what underlying agreements are there in the announcement of the billions fund that the European Union is now setting up? That's still very preliminary. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, mentioned 25 billion. This is expected in the short term and we will inform the Chamber immediately. We try to arrange it behind the scenes in such a way that it is also attractive for the Netherlands. There was also a question about the banks from the VVD. We are in consultation with the banks about monitoring business services as a result of the crisis. This is difficult to predict for banks at the moment, but they are committed to financing viable companies. There is sufficient capital available for this at the moment. The extension of the guarantee scheme is also discussed with the banks. There is also more general talk with them. If companies are temporarily down because companies that are otherwise healthy are in trouble for a number of weeks or months, we need to ensure that banks have the opportunity to bridge such a period. The banks themselves have an interest in this. The Christian Union has asked which sectors are affected. The Christian Union also made the point about the Tax Administration. First about the IRS. For entrepreneurs who wish to use the tax measures related to corona, they can report in writing to the Tax Administration. They do not need to use eRecognize. The Tax Administration will continue to be contacted by telephone via the Tax Phone. Anyway, we've seen before that doesn't always go well. I don't know if that's different now, but there were problems a few weeks ago. Anyway, there's no need for recognition. In addition, the advisory team of the Chamber of Commerce is also standing by as an alternative. They are also available by telephone: 0800 2117. Then there is the other point about the sectors. At the moment, the main impact seems to be on the supply side of the economy, for example, because there is a delay in the supply of raw materials. Look at the situation in Asia. At the same time, you see effects on the demand side of the economy: growing uncertainty, cancellation of conferences and events. We're watching them very closely. We have now presented the generic package in this letter and we are going to look further in the coming days at what is more specific to support sectors as best we can. This is, of course, also in the interests of the functioning of our economic system. At the moment it is also visible at the fairs. This is not the real economy, but of course there is always a risk that it will lead to the real economy. Then there's consequences there, too. Finally. In that sense, there's a link between what macro can do and how that micro works out. Fortunately, because we can have a macro-financial impact, there is a micro-economic opportunity to finance, without any immediate problems, any significant increase in certain posts, such as the WW or the reduction in working hours. But again, at the same time, you have to work with micro-measures to prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u338	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u339	All the questions that have been asked to me have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u340	Good. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u341	I think, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u342	Mr. Chairman. "Whatever it takes," said the Minister of Finance, and then came the letter saying that we have such beautiful buffers. I'm glad the Prime Minister says "there's more to it, this was the beginning and there's more to it soon." The United Kingdom has already put out a package of 12 billion. When the first issue was the loss of supply, after the decisions that have been taken today, you will certainly see a huge blow to demand. People in the hospitality department notice that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u343	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u344	...the cultural sector is being hit hugely. The travel industry is affected, the aviation industry, the largest private employer in our country. Two requests. In the next update please update the scenarios to stimulate the general demand side through purchasing power and otherwise. And two, building an investment package that will strengthen the economy. And three, measures aimed at supporting sectors that are particularly hard hit. Think also of the self-employed in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u345	The last one: yes. Three questions were asked very quickly. The last one: yes. That investment package, that's what we're gonna see if it works at this stage. I get it, so I'm gonna take that suggestion, but I'm not gonna say yes to it right now. I really want to see how it develops over the next few days. Of course, the first request, the scenarios, includes purchasing power. It is not the case that we are currently thinking of further reductions in charges. Targeted might be able to do that, but we all really need to see what works there. So I understand the suggestions on one and two, and I can agree to the request on three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u346	I understand you're not spending $10 billion tonight. I'd rather be a little thoughtful. What I do ask, and I think I can ask, because we have seen this coming for a number of weeks now and we have seen other countries do it, is to show the scenarios at least, even before you actually put together such an investment package. What would a package like that look like? What are the considerations? That's the question I'm asking. It could be next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u347	That's what we're gonna try. I get the questions. I'm gonna stick to the promise a little bit, but I get the suggestions. And to the third question on the sectors, I can answer yes in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u348	I can imagine this commitment in sectors, in the cultural sector, but the characteristic ofzzp'ers is, of course, that they cannot be clearly defined. The zzp'er who does translation work at home, he will just be able to keep doing his job. But the zzp'er who, for example, is going to give trainings to larger groups, who now runs counter to the fact that his assignments are being postponed and may be adjusted. There are also problems and the measures proposed in today's letter are measures which, on average, are of no use to them. What can and will the cabinet do more than what it says in the letter to ensure, in very specific situations, that there is, in the end, a package that also allows tailor-made work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u349	We're gonna take a look at that, but I can't paint that in detail right now. We have now shown what more generic instruments there are and how you can already focus them a little more on this crisis. I understand the questions. I understand this too, because that was of course one of the things we discussed yesterday when we had our telco with the most involved rulers, who led to this letter. Yesterday I was travelling in the province of Groningen, the earthquake area and the Eemshaven. So me and others were on the phone. We also discussed that, but of course it's a tricky one and we're also going to see how you can look more closely at the group ofzzp'ers. But that's not easy, because that's a very diverse group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u350	Thanks to the Prime Minister for his outline of generic measures and the further development, in the coming days, of specific measures for sectors, particularly for the cultural sector, which is being hit very hard, also because of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u351	I didn't make a promise about that. But I've heard and noted, but no commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u352	No, but it's good to take a specific look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u353	Just for the people of the cultural sector, they don't think "o, this is gonna be him." I can't promise that right now. But I've heard the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u354	That's very good. A sector that also stands out, because it is also mentioned in the opinion of the OMT, is the catering sector. Today we see that, after the press conference of the cabinet, the whole of the Netherlands is thinking about what part one can contribute to prevent further spread of the virus. But while we are having the debate here and making sure that there are no more than 100 people in this room, the terraces and pubs are full here in The Hague and probably also in other places in the country, often with more than 100 people. I read in the OMT's opinion that consideration is being given to scaling down also for the catering sector at some point. My question to the cabinet is: what advice can they now give to catering entrepreneurs how they should deal with their responsibility in the coming days?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u355	We haven't decided on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u356	It has not yet been decided, but it is a possible follow-up measure in the document.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u357	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u358	And we have tonight...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u359	Because the Chamber asked: let's see what else can be done next. But that is, of course, the risk that people will think: oh, can this happen after this? We don't like that, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u360	However, I am asking the question because on this point, too, our neighbour Belgium has just decided that all catering establishments should be closed in the coming weeks. Catering entrepreneurs in particular are currently wondering: if I have more than 100 customers in my business, am I in violation of the measures announced by the cabinet today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u361	Grapperhaus will immediately address the 100 measure and enforcement. That is, of course, an issue. But it's not like there's plans to shut down the catering business right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u362	It's a lot about thezzp'ers, but I've also been talking about the agency workers. Will that also be discussed next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u363	Well, we haven't discussed it in that much detail, but I'll write down the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u364	Okay, the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u365	The Prime Minister is starting to get a little jolly again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u366	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u367	"I'll write down the order." This is about people who, for example, work in the hospitality industry or hotels, who sit at home and have no income.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u368	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u369	They have no income and no buffers to live on either. That is the question, when we are talking about solidarity that we need to talk about, and I agree with it 100%, with people who are weaker in this society and who are at risk, which means that we should not have more than 100 people together. That has consequences for the work these people have. They're not entrepreneurs. It's people who work through temp agencies and have no income. We have all kinds of very sharp rules about welfare, so they can't just roll into that either. What are we going to do to help these people? I actually want the Prime Minister's promise that he will return to that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u370	No, I'm not. But the suggestion is really noted. I get it, too. We're gonna take a very close look, very precise. Asscher had some suggestions. You have suggestions. I'll write them all down. That wasn't supposed to be silly. The word "order" is a little faint, but that was a little joke. I thought maybe you could do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u371	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u372	I'm pulling that back because we shouldn't be kidding around here. That order is understood, but I'm not going to make a commitment on it right now. We're really gonna take a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u373	I didn't ask for a substantive commitment. I get that. I understand that at 11:30 a.m. there are not all kinds of comprehensive commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u374	There are two other ministers who also need to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u375	I would like to ask the Prime Minister to come back to the Chamber next week and to state explicitly what we are going to do about the broadcasting industry. That could also mean that the cabinet says, "We're not gonna do anything about it." But I want him to come back to that next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u376	I've heard that, but I'm saying I'm not making any commitments about that right now. I get the question. I don't think he's weird at all, but I also want to have a chance with the cabinet to drill a little deeper and see how we're going to do this. I understand this request, but I want a chance to discuss this internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u377	We hear that for many sectors, SMEs, aviation and other sectors, measures are being taken to mitigate the crisis if it were to come. That is important and we must do so. There is one sector that is always not mentioned. That's the healthcare sector. Nurses are now being asked to make extra hours. Generalists need to deploy extra personnel to cope with the enormous hustle and bustle. I would like to have the guarantee from the Cabinet, just as other sectors will be helped if they get into the financial problems. Can the Prime Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u378	Two responses. Firstly, we cannot guarantee in general terms that we can compensate everyone who has a problem as a result of the corona crisis in financial terms. I didn't say that. Especially for the healthcare sector, Bruno Bruins will respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u379	Then... Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u380	This will eventually affect the budgetary policy of the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u381	He's in there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u382	I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that if measures are taken to compensate and support other sectors if this is necessary, so too; that is very important. That statement will also be made for the care sector, so that we do not see, at the end of the year, that general practitioners and hospitals are in financial difficulties because of the additional measures that we are now all asking them to take. That is the only commitment I want from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u383	Now the fight against the corona crisis, which calls heavily on the care sector, is being repeated: questions have been asked about what that means for the sector and Mr Bruins will go into it in this way, mixed with a broader question about the functioning of our economy as a result of the corona crisis. Those are two different things. But once again, Mr Bruins is so keen on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u384	Let me now give the floor... Thank you, Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u385	Yeah, I thought there was someone else out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u386	I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u387	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to have an introduction. I would like to answer directly the questions raised by your Chamber. I was gonna do that on the basis of three cubes. The first block is the largest: care capacity and protective equipment. The second topic is public information and the third is varia. First of all, the question: what is to be done when nurses go to work for more hours? Can you help them, assist them, if, for example, more is needed in the area of childcare? This morning, the nurses' unions went to VWS with me. I have, of course, expressed great appreciation for the sector there. In particular, they raised the issue of childcare. I would like to discuss this subject with the nurses' collective agreement parties to see how we can make it possible for us to support nurses in this way. That is what I am going to do with the social partners to see how we can make a contribution here. Another question from Mr Hijink concerned the distribution of protective equipment to general practitioners. He says that it is unevenly distributed across the Netherlands and that it should be distributed equally. How are we gonna do that? I said this last Thursday in the debate. We want to ensure that, by region, per ROAZ region, we identify where there is a need for protective equipment. On the other hand, we want to ensure that delivery is made by region, so that there is no parallel trade, and that where the need is greatest, the means of protection are delivered first. So through a structure that is inventoried by region using the GGD and ROAZ on the one hand and on the other hand the help of the private parties, we think we have come up with a final approach to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u388	Did you have the first subject with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u389	No, I've got a whole pile. This was the second question. I've got a whole stack of protective equipment and care capacity. That's my first block, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u390	Okay, but you're not done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u391	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u392	Well, then I'd like to suggest we finish this. Then you will have the floor, Mr Baudet and Mr Klaver. Don't look so angry, Mr. Clover. You will also be given the floor. I suggest you finish this first, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u393	Mr. Chairman. The next question was from Mr Wilders, but also from Mr Hijink. What measures does the Cabinet take to ensure that patients receive proper care on the ic? In Mr Wilders' question it was decided that we have only become active since we have patients in the Netherlands. I would like to stress that we have had the pandemic maps much, much longer in the Netherlands. At both the health care institutions and hospitals, we've had these maps for about ten years, since the Mexican flu. This means that this whole crisis structure has been set up and is available and practiced in practice. That is my first point. At this time I have previously written to your Room there are at least 250 beds available for insulation in intensive care and that can be extended to the order of size of 1,150 ic-beds. The need for care for a patient is always assessed on the basis of a substantive medical assessment. If the patient can be treated at home, is in home isolation, it has the great advantage that such a patient, if medically possible, does not use an ic-place. It is therefore always about the consideration which patient really needs to be cared for in the hospital, nursed, and which can be cared for at home. At the moment, over 600 infected patients use an ic facility for several dozen patients. With that this subject is never finished, never finished, but we have a decent availability of ic-locations in the Netherlands. Then there is Mr Asscher's question as to what scenarios there are to accommodate larger groups in isolation. At present, patients are being taken into isolation rooms per person. As the need grows, hospitals can use cohort care, for example by reserving a wing for the reception of coronavirus patients. That's what they're preparing now. That has the great advantage of being more practical with your staff and patient care. So that's one way to increase capacity. In a very different way, I spoke with the hospitals in the ROAZ association yesterday, in the hospitals in the hospitals in the hospitals, looking at which additional care staff can be employed. These include people who have recently retired. Maybe they want to go back to work. Or people who are about to graduate. Do they want to work? With the Red Cross there is a huge reservoir.... that is too unfriendly word... of people who want to support, want to help. So what do we do? Per ROAZ ensure that there is a Red Cross coordinator and that these two parties connect, so that additional capacity can also be organised in this way. What can also help, and that is also part of a scenario, is that you actually postpone some of the deferred operations, so that you can reserve extra capacity in that way when the need arises. These are all examples of preparatory measures being taken and which are now being worked on, very practically. Mr Jetten's question was how to ensure that hospitals and health services are given sufficient financial resources to do their job. To both, to the G.D.D.'s and to the hospitals, we let you know that the containment, limiting, so the medical side is at the forefront. We exchanged a word in the previous debate on the GDPs, I say in the direction of Mr Renkema. Also in the direction of the health insurance companies I will make a point of this, because hospitals tell me that due to all that extra attention to the coronavirus, sometimes a large part of regular patient care, regular operations and regular treatments is cancelled. If that coronavirus stays with us for a while, and that expectation is there, of course, then that means that one goes ahead with that turnover, let me use that word never make up for it in the course of the year. So we need to talk to the insurance companies about that. That's what I'm gonna do. Mr Wilders asked whether there were sufficient protective equipment, with specific reference to the protection devices. So far we have no shortage of ventilators, but in order to get ahead of this situation, 80 protection devices that are now unused in the Ministry of Defence will be put in order and ready for use, so that they can be deployed in the Netherlands. Mr Wilders has also asked what I can do to help those who work in health care and walk on their gums. The comments I have just made on the search for additional categories of staff are basically also valid for this. Think of the pensioners, the nearly graduates, the Red Cross. Mr Segers asked what measures Europe is taking with regard to protective equipment. I believe that the most important measure is to show solidarity in Europe. This does not mean that there are trucks along the German border with protective equipment and that these protective equipment are in a truck and do not cross the border because Germany is stopping it because of paperwork, as I exchanged with my colleague from Germany yesterday. I'm strong against that. I also exchanged that with him and with my colleague in France. In any case, I have received a clear answer from Spahn, from Germany. They're working on that kind of thing at the border. I'm saying it's a little too domestic, so that those protective equipment can just go to our country. This applies to the Netherlands. It would, of course, be very good if we were to show this solidarity at European level. In another way, this is going to happen, because the European Commission has announced its intention to launch a joint procurement, a joint procurement of protection measures. That kind of cooperation is my preference. It remains a matter of always addressing parties to it. Is the acquisition of additional protective equipment in progress? Over the past week we have received about twenty different leads from people, parties and companies here and there that could go through all kinds of angles and holes that make offers or have suggestions for additional protective equipment. All those 20 leads we're walking out of here. I mentioned one of them in the letter sent this afternoon. I mentioned that there are 500,000 mouth caps available for the Netherlands. So that's not a bird in the sky anymore, it's a bird in the hand. We're still not done with that. We're gonna have to move on, but it's a sales paradise here, of course. There are a lot of parties watching where they get the best bids. That doesn't make it easy, but we're working hard on that. Within the Ministry a team has been prepared, together with buyers from the practice. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the shortage of medical devices. Can we speed up this? This regional structure is awaiting us. There have been many preparations in recent weeks. That regional structure is up-and-running from the beginning of next week. That is the structure that I have just outlined in the direction of Mr Asscher. On the one hand, it is ensured that there is an understanding of the need for protective equipment per region. On the other hand, it is ensured that the private parties jointly deliver. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers have also asked whether the cabinet is committed to more testing. No. As we have said, the materials with which we carry out tests are scarce. Today's OMT opinion also makes a comment on this. So you look at where the most sensible situations can be tested, so that we have that capacity available for as long as possible. Mr Hijink asked: does the Minister want to ensure that testing on the coronavirus is not at the expense of one's own risk? I understand that question. In the first weeks, until 3 March, all tests were carried out in the laboratories of RIVM and Erasmus and their costs were paid from public health funds. Since 3 March, other laboratories, in hospitals, have also been used. Since then, people who are being tested in the hospital have indeed been covered by the Health Insurance Act. That's where the risk goes. I am prepared to consult with the health insurers on the exceptional cases in which people face their own risk, specifically for a corona test that they themselves have to pay. I will do so in consultation with the health insurance companies. Mr Kuzu has asked whether it can be explained why the virus is still spreading in warm countries, such as Saudi Arabia. I can't give a conclusive answer to that. It is still a scientific question to find out more about this. We simply do not know enough about this. I find it difficult to answer the question about the maximum test capacity, other than that we will soon have 38 test laboratories. Of course, the number of tests available is not infinite, but we have asked the Dutch Association for Medical Microbiology to see if there are alternative test methods that allow you to scale up the capacity. For example, you can do this by suspending other forms of research in microbiology for a while, so that your test material and additional test capacity are available for these tests. There may be other practical measures. That's what the Dutch Association for Medical Microbiology is looking at. Mr Veldman has asked whether scenarios are being made about care capacity. Yes. I have just mentioned an example of this, namely cohort care. In addition, there is cooperation in the ROAZ context, in which it is examined whether specialization and distribution of different types of hospital care can broaden the capacity. That, too, provides additional capacity. Those scenarios are indeed being made. Mr Van der Staaij has asked for medical, nursing and care students to be used. Yes, that's the case. It's being discussed with the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u394	Before you continue, there are a number of MPs who would like to interrupt. Mr Klaver still wants to interrupt, I see. Then Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u395	I understand very well that we actually had to wait until the end of the block, but then a lot of subjects have passed. Let me get one out. There was just reference to Germany, where there are problems with getting stuff across the border because the paperwork would not be in order. Can the Minister comment on that for a moment? I'd like to know what kind of paperwork that is. In the Netherlands we have free movement of goods. This almost seems to indicate that this situation with the paperwork is not by accident, but that Germany simply does not cooperate with the stuff coming here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u396	That's the impression I got. A kind of additional permit or an additional document was requested for suppliers at the border. I don't think this can be. Last Friday, I appointed this topic to the European Council. At that time, the answer was to make sure that not all kinds of parallel traders - I am using that word - are using protective equipment and that we therefore want to have such a document. The aim is to make protective equipment available to health professionals. The focus is on the care professional and not on the home country. I liked that reasoning. When I noticed this week that a lorry was stopped along the border, I might say a little too plastic because it did not have the good documents, I spoke to my colleague from Germany. He said he had to talk to his colleague from Economic Affairs about this. A solution would have been found today, so that traffic with these protective equipment could be resumed to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u397	You say: would have been found. Has that solution been found? Is that truck on its way to Holland now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u398	We do all kinds of things all day, but I'll check. I'm assuming it's okay now, but I'd be happy to let your room know. I'm very precise on that. I believe that the focus should be on providing protection for healthcare professionals, and that countries should not cover themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u399	Very nice. I would very much like to hear it during this debate when they are on their way, otherwise I would like to hear it tomorrow morning. That could be a very short note, so that we can hear as a Chamber whether that is the case. If not, I would be very sorry, including as regards solidarity between European countries. Otherwise we would like to hear it from the Minister tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u400	How can healthcare workers in hospitals in Brabant no longer be tested for corona, even if they have complaints, because of a lack of test drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u401	I told you before, not everyone gets tested. The OMT opinion gives a reason for who is or is not being tested. That has to do with the scarcity of test material.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u402	It just jumps on the news at Omroep Brabant that from tomorrow all ten hospitals in North Brabant will stop testing their employees for the presence of the coronavirus. This was decided in the Regional Consultation Acute Care (ROAZ), in which these hospitals are represented. This is exactly what I'm talking about when you're out of order. Therefore, due to the lack of test kits, an employee, one of those heroes in the care, may not be tested, even if he has complaints, because these test kits are used for patients. I understand the latter, but what I don't understand is that you didn't make sure there were enough test kits. As a result, no hospital worker is tested in Brabant anymore. You can't be serious about that happening. Why haven't you taken care of enough test kits?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u403	I had a visit to this chairman of the ROAZ and the other presidents on Tuesday afternoon. There was no shortage of test material back then. It was stressed, however, that good cooperation between ROAZ regions was sought and that we had to provide additional test kits. I'm standing here right now, so I can't specify ROAZ Brabant's information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u404	No, but I'm telling you. It just jumps on the Brabants Dagblad. All ten hospitals in North Brabant will stop testing their staff from Friday, because there are no test kits left. I think that's really outrageous. Those are people who stick their necks out to work in care. And because you haven't made sure there are enough test kits, those nurses and nurses in all Brabant hospitals can't be tested anymore and who knows what's about to happen in other provinces. I blame you, but if that is not answered in second term, I ask you to write a letter to the Chamber tomorrow, on how this can be done and how you are going to resolve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u405	I have just made a comment about the acquisition of additional protective equipment and additional test kits. I do not know this message, because I am standing here, but I will look into it and I will inform your Chamber about it. In the direction of Mr Klaver, I say that the measures have been relaxed in Germany and that the transports are running again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u406	The Minister indicated very little about the longer term impact of that virus on the airways. I understand that, but we also notice that anxious citizens are going to search Chinese websites for opportunities to get information about those long-term effects, which are now being investigated. Our call is whether you can at least update what we do or do not know through the communication channels we have, to provide people with Dutch information about the situation that is now there, because there are worried people who want to know more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u407	I understand that we do not know enough about the long-term effects on airways. That requires scientific research. We know far too little about the corona virus. That really requires further scientific research. If we know more about this, I am willing to publish it, but it must be the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u408	Are you willing to pass on the specific information you now give literally to people that we know too little about it now, but that the research is running on that too? People don't find anything right now. We searched, for example on the website of the RIVM. There's nothing there on this subject. People are now hearing that there is a real risk of permanent damage. They will search Dutch websites of institutions that themselves advise the government, but currently find zero information. We are wondering whether we really should not change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u409	For what it's worth: indeed, we always try to update the Q&As on the site reichsoverheid.nl. If your Chamber finds that helpful, I would like to add a Q&A on what we already know about the longer-term effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u410	It is good to hear that at least the Minister has reached agreements with his German colleague. Still with the French colleague. I have one more question about the medicines. We know there's a great dependence on China. A lot comes from Chinese factories. We know that a number of Chinese factories are stationary or run at half capacity. We also know that in the Netherlands generic medicines in particular are relatively cheap. If the production lines are restarted, we are probably not in the lead. This makes it plausible that we are running into shortages of generic medicines. My question to the Minister is: what steps can, will and will he take to ensure, with or without emergency measures, that generic medicines that are needed daily are ultimately available?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u411	We asked the EEA to set up a steering committee specifically for the coronavirus. In addition, we have agreed at European level that the European Commission should coordinate activities to identify where there is a shortage of medicines and to identify alternative options. That's not a new subject that's related to the coronavirus. You know I've been on that subject for a while. The division of roles is thus: and the involvement of the European Commission, and the steering group in the EEA for specifically the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u412	This is indeed not a completely new problem. It is all a bit broader and there has been a dependency for a long time, but of course we have an acute situation now, in which there can be an acute occurrence that generic medicines that people need on a daily basis are not available. It's good to hear there's a steering committee at the EEA. It is also good to hear that the European Commission is looking at it. But precisely because we have relatively low prices, I can also imagine that the Minister himself is considering whether specific agreements can be made on this subject, bilaterally and perhaps even with countries in Europe that still have production capacity. Greece is one of those countries that still has production capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u413	I have indeed referred to the international situation, not to the national situation. Mr Veldman knows that we have the Drugs Deficit Report. Companies are obliged to report deficits or threatening deficits. I am keeping a close eye on this, in order to see from there what measures can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u414	Some GPs are calling on us about the RIVM's adapted case definition. Now I need to explain what that is. That is, what characteristics does a patient have to satisfy before a GP has to treat him because he is suspected of corona? That case definition has been adapted so that there is no longer a link to areas of risk, such as Italy, China or which we had. This means that any patient who is currently reporting to a general practitioner who has a fever and needs to cough must be treated as a suspicious case. This means that these general practitioners must also have the protection to go to such a patient or receive a patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u415	And that means you have to ask a question, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u416	General practitioners tell us that this new case definition is probably simply impossible, because in one general practitioner's practice ten patients come in each day who have a fever and have to cough. I'd like to ask the Minister if he thinks this is still feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u417	If I understand Mr Hijink correctly, then it is important that the general practitioners have the appropriate protective equipment at their disposal so that the general practitioner can do his job. I have just made a comment on the regional approach to the inventory of protective equipment. The general practitioners are also involved in this, so that they too, as a care professional, have access to the protective materials that they also need. So they are clearly part of that regional mission that is deployed per ROAZ region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u418	That's not really what I meant. I meant more to say that in daily practice it will soon become impossible, perhaps as of tomorrow, to make a clear distinction between those patients who are thought to have the coronavirus and other patients. A very large proportion of patients entering a daily practice have fever and have respiratory problems or have to cough. I understand that this case definition needs to be adapted... the situation changes every day.... but how should general practitioners deal with this? How should they deal with it if ten or perhaps more patients come in a day who meet this definition? You can't treat them all like potential corona cases anymore, can you? You can't do that in practice, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u419	Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna guess the answer. Either you get it in second term or you get it in writing. I understand Mr Hijink's question very well. Mr. Chairman. There is one more question. Mr Krol asked: what about carers and home care? The representatives of home care are associated with the administrative coordination consultation. Just for the record, this is often about the Outbreak Management Team tonight. That's what advises the drivers. They're represented at the BAO. That BAO advises me, and that's what you'll see in letters of inquiry. This was about home care. Home care is connected to that BAO. That is important, I think, because they know through the domes what measures are being taken. Then there is another question from Mr Krol: when can we be clear about where older people who get sick can be cared for? He himself gave an example of a situation in Sittard, where a number of elderly corona patients reside in a nursing facility. If the complaints are such that the care can take place in that nursing home, then the patient will also receive care there. Then the patient doesn't need to be moved to the hospital. That is generally very enjoyable for the elderly, vulnerable patient. Then you get care in your own environment. Mr. Chairman. That was my file on protective equipment and care capacity. I have a much thinner folder on public information and then a few more varia questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u420	Before you proceed, there is a brief question from Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u421	Mr President, on a very brief point of order. About seven quarters of an hour ago, I had a few questions for the Prime Minister. He was gonna find out. This was about screening passengers as long as the risk flights have not been removed and checking with the OMT whether the restriction of circulation has been taken into account in the opinion in a less comprehensive way. Could those answers come at the end of the first term? Then I can take that into account when preparing motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u422	Sorry, we'll have to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u423	Suspended is fine. You will understand that this can benefit the treatment in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u424	I get that. But then we're gonna have to suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u425	Yeah, after the first term. The Minister of Justice and Security still has to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u426	Mr President, I would like to give the Prime Minister an opportunity to suspend his reply just before the end of the first period, so that the answer can be given in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u427	I don't get it anymore. We have the first term now. It's midnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u428	I noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u429	Let me look at the Minister: how much longer do you think you need to be able to answer the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u430	I think I'm ready for Friday, March 13th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u431	Do you have any more questions to answer, or have you already answered most of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u432	I have a few more questions in the block of public information and a few different questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u433	Okay, then I'd like to make the proposal that the Minister first gives his answers. You make the order proposal and then suspend it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u434	My question is to have those answers before the second term begins. The Prime Minister is willing to do so, and I ask you to facilitate it in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u435	So we say the same thing: after the first term and not after the Minister for Medical Care. We still have a minister who has to answer. Yes, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u436	Yes, but for the second term, otherwise it will be in the second. But I want to know those answers when preparing for the second term. The Prime Minister wants to respond to that. Me too, you too. So after the first term, but for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u437	Exactly, that's what I'm saying. Thank you. Then I suggest the Minister continue... Oh. Short questions, because there's been extensive interruptions. So we're gonna try to get the interruptions to take place briefly. Mrs. Van Esch was earlier, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I feel that I have missed the answer to a question that I believe has been asked by several parties about the news that people may already be infected if they do not have any complaints yet. I would like a concrete answer from the cabinet to the question of how we are going to anticipate that. This is what virologists say, who have specific clues and have researched them. So I think it's a shame and I feel like it was part of the first block, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u439	I have that question in the folder of varia. I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u440	I'll come back to those people in a nursing home. Of course they want to be nursed in that nursing home when they get sick, but we see that a lot of these nursing homes have no possibility of isolating people. Then the whole nursing home gets sick. That was my point. I understand very well that these people want to stay there, but I am concerned about the consequences for the fellow residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u441	I would like to say to Mr Krol that it is indeed not possible to do well in every nursing home, but it is in the example of Sittard that we can do very well. That's where the care of this group of patients can take place, I understand. But indeed, it cannot be done in every nursing home. Isolation comes with measures. If the symptoms become heavier, for example, the patient must also have ventilation. Then there must be additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u442	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u443	Then there's public communication. I have said in previous debates that I think public information is very important and also very complicated, because developments are moving very quickly. I choose to adjust the information several times a day where information can be given more quickly, on the websites. That is an effort that I think is very important to give factual information to the Netherlands about developments surrounding the virus. In addition to the information you already know, we want to add information. I am working on that, also in connection with the call made in a motion. We will see if we can find a form in which we can share the latest state of affairs with the Netherlands daily at a fixed time. Of course, we have a lot of information through newspapers and radio and television, but the idea in the previous debate was that we also organize a kind of update per day from the government. That is what we are looking at and that should preferably be done in the form of a Dutch talking head, so that you can easily take it. We're jigsaw puzzles with that. I hope to be able to inform you of this very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u444	Have you dealt with all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u445	I would also like to say that the call line 0800-1351 is open from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Mr Veldman's question was whether that line could also be opened longer. Yes, you can. We are looking at the number of calls requested, so that we can install rack there and keep the line open for longer. You have seen that the sign interpreter has made his entrance, for example at this afternoon's press conference. Finally. We are working in various ways to create material for deaf people and hearing impaired people, for example, and to make translations for people who are not so good at reading and writing. We'll cut that information to size. It is really part of crisis information to present it to our country in a good way. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u446	Mr. Chairman. Compliments to the Minister for the swift follow-up of the Chamber's call to use gesture interpreters on important communication moments. I am also pleased with the Minister's oral explanation on the implementation of the Diertens et al. motion, the Chamberwide appeal to inform the Netherlands every day at regular intervals about the state of the corona crisis and the approach of the cabinet. This explanation was much better than the explanation earlier today in the cabinet letter. Thank you for that oral explanation. I would also like to give the Minister not too complicated. I think a lot of people are watching the Journal every day now, or listening on the radio, to hear the latest state of affairs from the government. If, following the regular journal broadcasts, there is simply a daily coronajournaal provided by the government, then I think the Minister has already responded very widely to the widely supported call from the Chamber. So I would like to say to the Minister: don't make it too complicated, make sure that you can implement that motion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u447	I don't want to make it too complicated, either. I am truly incredibly happy with all the attention that is in the media. Every day the coronavirus is front page news. In any case, with all the trouble, the coverage is excellent, in the sense that there is very broad information from the media. The freedom of the press works great. In addition, information is provided through the Government and the RIVM. But we are looking for that extra way, to tell the news again from the government in a short, concise and understandable way. I will inform you more about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u448	I too am pleased that there is a slightly better answer now than the answer in the letter, but I am not quite satisfied yet. I'd like to hear when it's gonna start. The Minister also referred to the media in the letter, but sometimes media articles arise in the free press that raise new questions about what the government is doing. So I'd like to hear about when that coronajournaal is gonna be there. I would also like to hear whether there is an active information not only new information, but also what discussions arise and what questions arise, so that they can also be answered daily in that coronajournaal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u449	On the last point: national government.nl offers the great opportunity to add questions and answers several times a day. That's the fastest. If you fixate on a form in which you share the latest state of affairs with the Netherlands every day, that is a snapshot once a day, so that is always less fast than national government.nl. We must be aware of this. Mr Heerma asks when the news will be available. We're looking; I'll let you know as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u450	The first answer of the minister would be special, if someone would argue to do that coronajournaal instead of reichsoverheid.nl. But no one's saying that we need to stop communicating through that website. That website is also very good. But it is quite clear that it has also become apparent in recent days how concerns and noise can arise if too little communication is made. Hence the extra communication, where this has to be included. I would like to have an assessment of the Minister by when this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u451	At least next week I'll let you know what the schedule is like. If I had one, I would have told you tonight, but I don't have one. I'll let you know as soon as I can next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u452	The World Health Organisation has indicated that it is very important to provide different types of information for different target groups. I am very pleased with the coronajournaal, but it may also say something about the average age in this building that we are immediately thinking about a news news channel on television. Of course, there are a lot of other target groups that you need to reach in a different way. And different target groups may also need to be reached with a different message. When it comes to what is best for older people at the moment, you address them in a different way than young people with whom you may want to retain support for the far-reaching measures that are being proposed in the coming weeks. Different target groups, different messages: you have to think about that. To be honest, it doesn't convince me yet. A journal every day on TV is too limited. I would therefore like a very short-term plan from the Minister. He doesn't have to do all that himself, because there's a battalion of informers working in the U.S. Department. We know that. Can these people work to build a campaign like this? And then a campaign that goes beyond national.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u453	I only made a comment about the journal because a question was asked about the daily communication moment. I fully agree with Mr Hijink that this is about a very wide bay of communication activities: sometimes something on Teletext, sometimes something on social media, sometimes something in a different way. Last time in a debate, I highlighted a telephone number so that people can also call. Lots of people like that they can call. I can certainly give insight into the variety of means of communication. That's what we're doing. Let me say that next week I will be showing you the state of mind. Then you can see what variety of means of communication is already being deployed and what is still in the pipeline. I do not want to go into general communication so much as to do so, but in particular to the more specific, group-by-group information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u454	I am concerned that what the government is doing now for information is in line with the very good advice that comes from the World Health Organisation. They cover different target groups and different media. What we are doing should be in line with that. I will also make a call for this later, because it really needs to be more specific than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u455	I will inform your Chamber about this because I agree with it and I would also like to show what activities we are working on. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a question about information. We have mentioned the website of the government, but also the website of the RIVM, with the counter on it. I actually want the information on the counter, as was reported yesterday at the technical briefing, to be further refined, in the sense that we add which family members should be regarded as positive and how many cured persons there are in the Netherlands. This is not to mask the fact that we still have a big issue, but to give that clarity. The number of tested persons... are now that there are many thousands in the Netherlands.... is perhaps not such an interesting fact figure, but it is interesting to follow the trend in that. In that respect, I would like to use RIVM to see how we can complement that counting information. Finally, I come to the folder of varia, with a single question on this. Mr Jetten has asked: are you already thinking whether you can return to a normal situation after the corona crisis? It is fair to say that we are now thinking mainly about the scenarios of scaling up and not yet about the scenario of scaling down. That should also be part of the plans, but I'm still on the other side of the hill, or maybe mountain. Does the Cabinet realize that people without obvious complaints can also spread the disease? A number of speakers have made a comment on this. What I keep hearing from RIVM is that RIVM is based on a WHO report from experts who have also been in China. I think we should not brush away other views. We have to be clear that there are, but I do need us to do the work in accordance with the latest WHO findings. I have therefore answered Mr Van der Staaij's question. Mr Klaver asked why the Minister did not use Article 7 of the WPG. I did that today because, after consulting the presidents of the security regions, I decided to give a national clue on these events and meetings. This was done on the basis of Article 7 of the WPG. I also find it a pleasant way of working if you can do this in consultation with the presidents of the security regions. Only if you do not come out or if there is undesirable discrepancy between several regions will I think you should get to the point of that indication from me. But if it is possible, it will take place in consultation with the different presidents of the security regions. I really like working that way. Mr Jetten asked if Minister Bruins expects to receive help from abroad if we do not provide Italy with help. That was about equipment. I expect other Member States to help me when they are able to provide that help. That's about protective equipment. In fact, I have just said that I am heading towards solidarity at European level. I want parties to help each other and not do something like that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerma asked for clear information and European coordination. That is a bit two feet in one shoe, I say honestly in the direction of Mr Heerma. On the one hand, we call for clarity in definitions and approaches. On the other hand, we are no better than ourselves, because we ourselves, on the basis of considerations that we make in the Netherlands, are also taking our own measures. We have done so today and yesterday, but we have done so before in tightening up the travel advice for northern Italy. It seems like an eternity ago, but we were the first country, or one of the first countries, to do this. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u456	Good. I shall go first to Mr Jetten. Very briefly, because we have another minister who is going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u457	I'll try to be brief. My example of the aid question from Italy has actually been answered this evening, because it is currently being helped by China. China is currently sending planes with medical experts and relief supplies to Italy. In fact, I find it embarrassing that we have not been able to help another Member State in a week with all the Member States of the European Union. In my view, this is also an example of a lack of European coordination and coordination, which is taking place to this day. The Minister says: I would like to work together; I do not want to stand against each other. My question is then: what can you and what can the Dutch cabinet do to scale up European coordination and cooperation in the coming days? As I pointed out in my own contribution, I myself live in the border area. Hundreds of thousands of Dutch people cross the German-Dutch and Belgian-Dutch borders every day, because they work on the other side of the border or go to school. They wonder when there will be a more unambiguous direction from the European Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u458	I do not expect us to easily get a more unambiguous line on the measures to be taken. I'm just being honest. It is already quite a challenge to pull together in the joint procurement of protective equipment. Each country has its own considerations to make. I am quite optimistic about measures that we can take for the acquisition of protective equipment, but I am really gloomier about policy measures, because each country wants to continue to make its own choices on the basis of national considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u459	Finally. It is regrettable that, in times of crisis, the European Member States find cooperation so difficult. Could the Minister promise me that he will at least make an extra effort to achieve as much coordination as possible with the neighbouring countries of Germany and Belgium, because that is important for everyone who lives and works in the border region?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u460	Sure. I agree. For example, we spoke with a number of neighbouring countries yesterday. Germany was one of them, but Belgium was not. France and England were among them and also Switzerland. We have agreed with that small group of colleagues that we regularly, if possible a few times a week, do such coordination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u461	That last one's very nice. The Minister just answered two of my questions, which had been put together, but both of them deserved their own answer. One of those questions was: what are you going to do to better coordinate? The answer now given, which is at least being looked at with Germany and Belgium, is very good to me, because it is precisely the concern in that border region that is at stake. But that unambiguous communication is about the inhabitants in that border region, who are confronted with fireplaces just across the border, while in the Netherlands communication is about a fireplace in Brabant, which is sometimes smaller. So it is good to coordinate so that it becomes more unambiguous, but also to these people, who have specific care, should be better communicated about their care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u462	Sure. My answer went all the way to European cooperation between colleagues in the field of health care. I know that there are much closer contacts between the Limburg region and the neighbours of Germany at GGD level, at provincial level, at Länder level. That is a much easier point of approach to organise unambiguous information. I have to pay particular attention to this, both for Germany and for Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u463	It is good to hear that there is such coordination, but it is precisely in the region that the Minister mentions now that there are a great deal of concerns and uncertainty among the population. Can the Minister make an effort to ensure that, if there is coordination, the information reaches the citizens who are concerned about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u464	Yes, because I have already said that I think that the key to combating and tackling the corona crisis is public information is very important. I certainly want to work for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u465	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u466	We have discussed with the Prime Minister whether or not to close schools. I would like to ask the Minister for Medical Care if he can confirm that the health risk of pupils and teachers is decisive in this assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u467	The reasoning we followed this afternoon is that we would like to let the children go to school so that their parents can stay at work. Because children have a lower risk of contagion with the corona virus, we believe that we made a good choice in the MCCb this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u468	But my question was whether the health risks are decisive in the assessment, namely that, if there is a high risk or if there are complaints, they go home immediately and that a school, if it can no longer teach because teachers have complaints, is not kept to the impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u469	We have considered that the health risks are small for children who simply go to school and that on the other hand we also need the capacity of the parents who can work very much for vital processes in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u470	I was actually expecting the Minister to just say yes to my first question, and that is why I would ask him to do so. That consideration will have to be made every time. It was made today on the basis of the advice given. I have said that I understand that consideration, but in a new assessment, the health risks must certainly be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u471	I think so, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u472	I would like to put a very strong line on that, because that economic argument caused some inconvenience. I understand that this is taken into account, but these health risks are certainly decisive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u473	Of course, we also have to take socio-economic factors into account, but I really think it is my job to emphasise the health aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u474	You look very difficult, Mr President, and then it is Friday the thirteenth. I have a question about the numbers. I myself stressed just now how important it is for us to keep an eye on the figures. But we do hear Mr Wilders saying that caregivers are no longer being tested. We know that roommates of people who have been determined to be infected are no longer counted. Is it sustainable for us to get good figures on this, or is it logical for the Minister to decide, at some point in consultation with RIVM, that he no longer knows exactly and that he should start thinking in percentages of the population rather than in numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u475	The Minister is responding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u476	Mr President, I just wanted to say that I would like to have a very accurate counter and that the Minister should indicate in good time that we are going to stop doing so if it turns out that there is no longer one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u477	I find that factual information important, not so much because numbers of those different days are consecutive, because that is a snapshot. RIVM publishes around two o'clock. Sometimes they're in the middle of a test batch and then the results of that day don't say so much, because there's still half a day's work coming. I have just said that I would like to use RIVM to see how this counter information can be improved. I have mentioned points for this, for example the untested family members, the cured patients and the number of tests carried out. Maybe those aren't very precise numbers, but I do think we should have that information available, if only to see some kind of trend. So I think that should be my ambition, and that's why I picked up that glove. I would like that information to be available. If you can't, I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u478	Good. Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u479	I very much agree with that. Important that, if possible, we do. But if the Minister gets the impression that we actually don't have it in the picture anymore, it should also be made clear that we just don't know. It shouldn't be disinformation. It should also be indicated in good time if we lose the overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u480	Yes, I very much agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u481	I was so curious to see how the Minister assesses the success of Singapore's action. What explains that Singapore seems to be doing so well, as indeed does South Korea, in order to bring down that curve of infections, which is exponential in the Netherlands and in other European countries? What does he think is the explanation for this success?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u482	I have not given enough attention to the situation in Singapore, so I cannot answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u483	That is, I think, very relevant information. I think you should. I think it's really a piece of cake from this government, and I've already come across it in my interruption with Rutte.... that people don't really look around at other countries, at what works and what doesn't. We are now in the Italian scenario. That's a very unpleasant scenario. That's very unattractive. We need to get into the Singapore scenario, and we could do that if we were to take far more far-reaching measures. So I really want to urge the Minister. I find it really remarkable that he obviously doesn't know that at all and apparently doesn't think about it at all, of "how are things in other countries?" How could you not know that? What do you think of yourself that you don't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u484	I have just indicated that, when it comes to looking in other countries, I look more at countries like Belgium, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Italy and other countries, than at Singapore, because I want to learn from the countries closer and because I also experience more cooperation in a European context with those colleagues. And I find that valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u485	Yes, but the virus has been in Asia before it has been in Europe, so if you look at Asia, you look at the future. Then you look at what could happen here. And what we see is that the cabinet, and so you too, is constantly chasing the facts. Then we can see that you didn't think it would be so big that you didn't expect it to get this size. Apparently, something goes wrong in the assessments. We can see that. Apparently, you can't predict exactly what we're dealing with. Then you can look at the countries around us. To some extent, that can be helpful, but in general, they are all faced with the infection much later than countries in Asia. Wouldn't it be wise, intelligent, to see what they've actually done in Singapore or what they're doing in South Korea, how they're doing in Hong Kong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u486	That the virus is difficult to predict, that's an accurate remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u487	By people like you! That you can't, we know that. It doesn't apply in general. We knew six weeks ago that we had to take emergency measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u488	The other point is that, of course, it is a good idea to look also at the experiences of Singapore and South Korea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u489	Do we agree that you're gonna check that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u490	Yeah, when I say that, I'm gonna look at that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u491	Can we get a letter from you on that, an analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u492	No, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to leave it at that. I think I should emphasise what is happening in Europe. I expect the best learning experience from that. That is also something I explicitly addressed in my letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u493	Okay, let's finish. Do you agree with me that all the European countries you are looking at have not been successful in fighting the virus and Singapore so far? Do you at least agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u494	No. That's way too fast for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u495	Which country has been successful?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u496	First of all, I must be able to make the comparison between what happened in Singapore and what happened in Europe. I haven't looked enough in Singapore yet, so I can't make that comparison, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u497	And you're going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u498	I find this really disgusting!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u499	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u500	The only thing they're looking at are countries that don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u501	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u502	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security, who is always brief and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u503	Mr President, yes. Any questions? I'll be brief and concise. I would like to begin by expressing my condolences to all those affected by the disease, because that is what this evening is all about. Many times there has been deep respect for the professionals in the care. I also wanted to do that for our safety professionals, who we are very dependent on and will continue to rely on in order to get to a good fight against the crisis. Let us be clear: that includes teachers and teachers, who really have an important role to play here. Mr. Chairman. We have a detailed crisis management system in the Netherlands. However, cooperation is a key element in an optimal response to the crisis. I would like to emphasise that. It has been said by the Prime Minister, but also by some of the speakers; I remember Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Heerma. I am not going to give a whole talk here about how fine-meshed our system is, but we have to work together in such a crisis in order to combat it optimally. The measures that have been announced today require a great deal of Dutch residents. At home, at work and in further daily life, everyone will be constantly confronted with how incredibly profound that is in the coming weeks. I myself find one of the most distressing things that people with low resilience and older people will indeed find that they are very quickly excluded from all kinds of social contacts. I think that is one of the things that I am greatly encouraged and encouraged to do in the context of crisis management, which I am responsible for. But we will have to do that with each other and therefore for each other, especially for those groups. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked questions which relate in particular to how the security regions work, among other things. I'll go into that. Mr Krol asked how far the regions are from GRIP-4. First of all, GRIP-4 is the scaling-up method. On the basis of Article 39 of the Security Regions Act, this applies in the event of a disaster or a crisis of more than local significance. We have brought Mr Bruls, the chairman of the security regions, into the MCCb as of this morning. Through him, the urgent advice has been passed on to apply GRIP-4 where this has not yet been discussed. I am sure that will be followed up, because this is a crisis of more than local significance. Do the municipalities and the security regions have an idea of how critical processes can continue? The measures taken by the Cabinet are aimed at ensuring that society functions as effectively as possible and at curbing the spread, despite the fact that we require all of the people, as I said. We are also really preparing for a longer duration to lead to all kinds of major adjustments, including in vital processes. It is true that the existing continuity plans are now actually being activated for this purpose, both at national and regional level. We have asked the vital organisations to prepare themselves for this. We are presenting to all sectors what is needed in the longer term in order for society to function as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u504	Hello, Mr. Baudet. The minister wasn't finished with the first part. Then you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u505	Mr. Chairman. There was a question from the Christian Union about basic services and food supplies. The cabinet is in consultation with the supermarkets and the food industry on all the relevant scenarios that exist. They are also being talked through, because of course it is also developing. Businesses are also committed and are indeed preparing for the necessary measures. We are looking at where we need to be connected to create further framework conditions, perhaps even through emergency legislation, but we are at least on top of that day-to-day, at that point. We have also been asked that this is an important point about how we are going to get back to the normal situation. For the time being, the measures we have taken are necessary, that may be clear, until 31 March. The national crisis structure continuously examines with all partners what measures are appropriate for further development. Of course, we also work with different scenarios for how it can develop. At the same time, we are looking at continuity scenarios based on a longer course of this crisis and, on the other hand, at scenarios that are developing towards a rapid return to the normal situation, because we will have to be prepared for that. This latter form of scenario will, of course, also be adapted in the light of developments in the future. Schools can take action in cooperation with the security regions. The precise measures can also be aligned with those security regions. That is typical of what the Prime Minister called local customization, which is an essential part of our system of the Security Regions Act and other regulations. Okay, Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, there were some things about the 100 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u506	Before you continue, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u507	I would like to talk to the Minister about open borders, asylum and immigration policy and the need to suspend it immediately. Although you can say that a large part of the people in the Netherlands are within the radar through general care and so on, there is a lot to be done, but still the people who enter our country illegally or not are of course completely out of sight. So we really need to limit that right now. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u508	I have deleted, also because of the late hour and the fact that we are already in a new day, a whole piece of text that contained some considerations on the seriousness of the crisis and also a number of considerations which deal in detail with how the crisis management is being carried out. That crisis council involves the departments and the administrators who at some point have an issue that needs to be resolved in the crisis, which is therefore related to corona. There will certainly be elements in the coming weeks that see how we deal with people staying in azc's, for example. It is also being looked at, and this is already being done in my ministry to the judicial establishments. That is when that issue is really on the agenda. We have now been very clearly engaged in this crisis in order to list the whole package of measures that you have seen today that are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u509	And now to my question, if that is possible: should we not immediately close those borders, should we not check who enters our country? It's kind of a sacred project of this cabinet to keep up that migration. But that's just not gonna last now, is it? If you look at what all these other countries are doing, all these other countries. They all say, "No more just anyone in the country." Austria does it, Denmark does it, Germany does it, Ireland does it, America does it. What are we doing? You can just answer that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u510	The United States of America is not in Schengen, so I think we should...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u511	But we can just based on article...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u512	I was saying something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u513	It's not Schengen at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u514	Mr. Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u515	What difference does Schengen make?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u516	You asked a question and the Minister replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u517	I'm just talking. Let's get back to the problem. Quite apart from all the political and political considerations that will be discussed here in Parliament: closed borders are not a priority at the moment in the context of the fight against the crisis, even if only because, as Mr Bruins has outlined, we have already encountered here and there the problem that an EU partner had some paperwork on getting trucks with protective equipment. This is therefore completely counterproductive at the moment in the context of the fight against the crisis. Another point is the following. The project I am currently responsible for is the crisis in the fight against the corona virus. We have announced today a large number of measures that I support, along with the whole cabinet. Those are the measures we need to focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u518	This is the standard caricature when you talk about border controls: borders can't be closed, because trucks with products have to enter our country. That's not the point at all. You can get good products through trucks and people into your country. Just... you need to check it out. That's the point. That can be arranged by the Cabinet. This also has nothing to do with Schengen, because the Schengen Treaty simply makes that possible. Article 25 already offers those possibilities. You just have to go into that. You can't say, "We won't be able to get food into our country." It's not fucking anything to do with that. The second point. If you are fighting the spread of corona: that is exactly what cannot be controlled if those borders remain open. If that's what you want, to prevent Corona from spreading indefinitely, then those boundaries must be closed, then we must regain control over who enters our country. Isn't that obvious?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u519	Mr Baudet and I may have a somewhat different basic logic after all. I do not believe that it is very useful to use people in all places along the border to check who enters our country. For example, the Prime Minister said something about the speedy adoption of a decision on aircraft from the areas at risk. Let us be very clear, we have the fact that we want above all to prevent the virus spreading in the Netherlands and, as I said at the beginning, more people getting sick and especially that it comes close to people who are very vulnerable according to the pyramid we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u520	Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u521	So you have to avoid new cases coming from abroad. That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u522	It is true, I must admit, that Mr Baudet and I are getting close. Whether abroad or inland, we must make sure that every effort is made to minimise the number of cases involved, especially at the top of the pyramid where critical cases are concerned. We are in complete agreement on that. I have outlined to you that the letter issued today contains a large package of measures which this cabinet is convinced are the steps we need to take now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u523	It was just about the security region and the role of the security region. It also has a care component, when it comes to medicine. Can there be tailor-made work with regard to the schools? We've had a whole discussion about schools. Can the security region also look at the question by region: what is needed now? We now have a generic measure, but can we also deliver customisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u524	I have just said that, of course, there are always modalities within the security region, from the security region, but the starting point is still the advice of the OMT, the Outbreak Management Team, which is the advice of all the experts. I would like to emphasise that very much. That advice is very clear on the issue of schools. The Prime Minister has already taken this very seriously and I would like to spare you that, but on that point of the cabinet as a starting point on the basis of the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, there are, of course, always certain modalities that are geared to the local situation. This is what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u525	I know the OMT's advice by now. I have also seen that there is now a generic advice and a decision that applies to the whole of the Netherlands. But my question is this. We are already seeing regional differences. There's a difference between Brabant and Groningen and Friesland. Does the security region have the opportunity to provide tailor-made services and to say that this region is asking for a slightly different approach, including with regard to schools, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u526	"This region needs a slightly different approach." This really suggests that it could be completely regionally different by region. I felt that Mr Segers' question was more as to whether it might be that, in consultation with the security region between a school and the mayor in the place where that school is, a certain tailor-made measure is being taken which is slightly different on a few points, all still from the advice of the OMT and the starting point that no schools are being closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u527	Finally, at least I'm trying to get a hold of something that might help us in the next few days and maybe weeks. The OMT is top-down and that advice is a general advice for the whole country, but if there is a very acute problem in a region, a local GGD can also look at questions like "hey, what's going on now?', "How fast is this place?" And "is there a school that deserves special attention?'. My question is: does a security region have the space, the ability and the power to say: we come from below with wisdom and perhaps we ask the cabinet to take a specific measure here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u528	It can certainly be that a security region joins the Cabinet or the RIVM and says: we really need to take a closer look at whether there is any additional measure or other measure here. That's exactly what the connection is for. Next Monday, in the context of the Security Council, I will discuss this with the Presidents of all the security regions. Then there can certainly be certain questions on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u529	I think many people are wondering what exactly is the status of the measures announced this afternoon. I would like to know from the Minister whether he can make that clearer. Can he, for example, make it clear to people what happens when someone, a company or a private person having a big party, still organises meetings with more than 100 people? Is there gonna be any interference? Something's gonna happen? Or does the cabinet address the responsibility of people, companies and associations themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u530	In fact, I had the very essential question of whether the events of no more than 100 people would be maintained. Perhaps that question was also from Mr Hijink, but perhaps also from more Members. I don't want to break anyone. I would like to say a few words about this. When it comes to something organized, responsibility lies primarily with the organizer himself. When it comes to events that are subject to authorisation, there can be a ban; let me put it straight here. It's also about getting together. I will come back to Mr Kuzu's question about the mosques and Mr Segers' question about the churches. But there are also other meetings that are not subject to authorisation. Think about an information evening or something. In this context, the cabinet says: we give urgent advice to Dutch society and all those who participate in it to order or not to visit any form of meeting with 100 people. Furthermore, in exceptional cases, a local emergency regulation can be invoked. If necessary, unlicensed meetings may also be prohibited on the basis of Article 174, second paragraph of the Municipal Law. These are all possibilities that can be deployed at some point. But at the moment, as a crisis manager, I assume that the urgent call that has been made today, saying that it has taken place since the end of that press conference, is really being followed by people. Once again, that is what the importance is as expressed in the letter. On the one hand, this is the importance of preventing the spread of the virus and, on the other hand, the importance of protecting the people most vulnerable to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u531	I very much agree that you should not rush into a wedding with police officers, but I do think this is going to be a big issue in the short term. It's about people having a party, but they can't cancel it anymore, and they have to make the big costs if that doesn't happen. These are companies that have meetings and are going to suffer losses when they cannot continue. I would like to have a little more direction from the Minister as to what his proposal is, what his plan is, what he is going to do with the security regions and with the mayors. At what point, in what way and how strict does he want enforcement? I think it is important for the cabinet to take the lead in this, also in order to prevent us from seeing that in Groningen parties and parties can go on, but not in another place. You shouldn't want that kind of inequality. I would therefore like the cabinet to draw a clear line on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u532	Mr Hijink rightly points that out, because the first layer where that begins is in the security regions and then in the local authorities. At the moment I assume, also on the basis of the contacts I have had with local authorities, that there is unanimity in the follow-up to the urgent opinions as they have been given. But then, of course, there is a kicked advice, directly to the Dutch people. We will certainly have an exchange of views with each other on Monday... "Exchanging thoughts" still sounds a little weak. We will really get through the possibilities I have just mentioned, but also when we are going to use certain possibilities. What Mr Hijink is saying is that we are not a country in which we send the police in to maintain things in a violent way. No, we're not that country. I saw one of your members, I won't mention his name, but the police, as long as they're under my responsibility, aren't planning to rush into weddings. We must, of course, continue to monitor this very directly, in good consultation with the security regions, which really have an important role to play in this. Let me say in a'side sentence' that the way in which three mayors in Brabant have picked that up, three presidents of regions, has been excellent. That's how we're gonna get along. Mr. Chairman. Then very briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u533	On the previous point, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u534	Let's talk about the division of responsibility. Mr Bruins, the Minister for Medical Care, has already said something about it. According to Article 7 of the Public Health Act, there is also a power of direction for the Minister, so it is not only about what local authority and the security regions decide. As a minister, you can also order the mayor to act. I take it that the Minister is also prepared to take that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u535	Mr Klaver was quite right to point out this legal possibility. I also believe that Mr Klaver or anyone else has said that in the first period, but I do not want to give away copyright wrongly. That's very correct. It is still the case that we have an administrative consensus culture in the Netherlands, which has rarely made it necessary to deal directly with these situations, but regulatoryly it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u536	You say "in situations like this," but I don't think we've been in a situation like this before. At a pandemic like the one we're in right now, speed is crucial. Then it can be about hours when you have to make decisions. Too much consultation is simply too delaying. This means that this government, which is in charge of the crisis approach, must go ahead with its actions. If you can discuss it, it is absolutely preferable, but there are plenty of situations conceivable where you have to go right through it. I want the assurance of this cabinet that it is making use of that possibility. I'm not against consulting, but in the crisis we're in right now, you need to move forward, and quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u537	I really want to make it very clear that the strength of the Dutch process is that we have an administrative culture of consensus, as I have just mentioned. We may not have seen a crisis like this before, with such an effect. We also had a pandemic in the Netherlands eleven years ago, with the Mexican flu, but it didn't end up there. We have indeed had crisis situations in the Netherlands, in which the Empire and local government had to move quickly and not, as Mr Klaver suggests, go on and on forever. I would mention that Mr Bruins has already given a lead on the basis of the Public Health Act, but that is another law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u538	A quick question. The Minister said earlier that Article 39 of the Security Regions Act applies, that it was a crisis as envisaged by this law. Do I understand correctly that this has already been scaled up, and that the security region alone has a number of powers which otherwise lie with local authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u539	Yeah, that's right. Mr. Chairman. Very briefly about the mosques and the churches. I have just seen the message that a large number of mosques, or perhaps even all mosques, have cancelled the prayer service tomorrow. I think that is a decision which is very much appreciated and to be respected, because that means that we are indeed responding to that urgent opinion. I would certainly like to say to Mr Segers that in the coming week I will have as much as possible conversation with church societies in both areas of crisis as well as as as minister of worship. That may sometimes be a fernmündlich conversation, as the Germans call it. I'll talk to them to explain why we have to make this far-reaching decision for them. As a child I came to Our Lord in the Zolder in Amsterdam and in that shelter were less than 100 people, but I do not say that we have to go back there. Mr. Chairman. Then last but not least, public transport. The Prime Minister has already said the necessary things. I do think it is important that the urgent advice is given here to work at home where this can be done. Not much has been said about this tonight, but I would like to emphasise that. (NL) Mr President, last but not least, next week is the start of an exercise with 3,000 American soldiers? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Last but not least, I would like to say as a side note that some minor adjustments have been made today to the announcements made by the US President, but that they are certain. Mr President, I believe that these are all the answers we had to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u540	Thank you. There was also a request for information from the Prime Minister. I see he's got something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u541	Yes, because Mr Asscher wants to get on board well for his second term. I had three questions for him. The first was on the OMT advice on schools and, in particular, on the circulation of the virus among children at school and the need to close schools. Again, as you know, the Outbreak Management Team advises us not to close schools, because a complete closure of schools contributes less to the restriction of the circulation of the virus. A few things about that. At the end of February, the WHO issued a report on the investigation mission in China. In doing so, the researchers, WHO experts, suggest that the number of cases involving children in China is low. It is important, however, that we know what role the children play in the transfer of the coronavirus. They have found no cases where a child's disease was transmitted to an adult. The Dutch experts believe that the following can be said on the basis of the experience in China. Children may get the virus, but generally have no or only mild symptoms. It is important that parents keep their children at home in case of complaints. That is why this is also part of the agreements on education: stay at home in case of complaints. In general, therefore, we do not consider that it is now desirable to close all educational institutions. In addition, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, the ECDC, warns about the impact of school closure. It indicates that schools should first use other ways to limit dissemination in schools. That's right, hygiene measures. I told you, I checked right away. There will also be contact with the schools tomorrow about the aspect of staying open. This is a question from Mr Klaver. Parents who bring their children to school do not form a special risk group. If they keep their distance, do not shake hands and observe other hygienic measures, they minimise the risks. Besides, of course, it is not the case that parents go nowhere else. In everything: take the advice of the experts is eight. It should also be noted that closing schools only has an effect on the spread of the virus to children when children do not meet at all outside school. Therefore, children should all stay at home and not go to child care. The same applies, of course, to children of people in vital sectors. They have to go somewhere. They cannot go to the grandparents; that is also a vulnerable group. So that's another additional problem. Considering all this, we come to the conclusion that the OMT opinion is sensible. Of course, we'll monitor it very well. I'll do all three questions. Then there was Mr Asscher's question about the difference between the opinion of the Health Council of 2005 to close schools and the opinion of today not to close schools. I just improvised that, and it turned out to be right. It's a little more official here. The opinion of the Health Council of 2005 saw the influenza virus. We know that it spreads very quickly to children. Then closing schools is an effective measure. That's where the big difference is with this virus. I refer to the previous answer. Finally, the entry screening. Why don't we put it in until we're sure we're blocking those planes? I hope that we can decide quickly, perhaps tomorrow. If not, then Mr Asscher's question was: but what if there is still a plane from Iran? There is the following problem: that you can see if people have a fever at such a screening, and not if they are infected with corona. So it's a snapshot. We only test people at a short time when they enter the country. In fact, that's the pin in a haystack. We know the incubation period is between two and fourteen days. So there's only a small chance that they got sick the exact moment they arrive at the airport. It is therefore much more important to inform people on arrival about what to do if they develop symptoms. That's what we do at the airports. We communicate widely in the Netherlands about what to do when you get symptoms. Again, I am very motivated to quickly take over the OMT advice on those risk flights, but this was because of Asscher's question: what if it doesn't work before another flight comes out of Iran, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u542	Those were the questions that still had to be answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u543	Yeah, I think those were the questions that were left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u544	Mr President, thank you very much for being able to do so. Thank you to the people responsible and to the Prime Minister. I still have a question. I get the impression, for example from President Macron's speech tonight, that at least in other European countries the risk of this circulation via children is being assessed as higher than zero. So I think this leaves the question standing: should you no longer be able and therefore also try to avoid circulation through those schools taking into account the fact that there are also disadvantages to school closure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u545	That is why it is so important to ensure that parents keep their children at home in case of complaints. We have to establish together that no evidence of the transfer to adults was found in that WHO study. However, these are of course all intermediate positions and that can of course change again. But this is the state of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u546	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u547	I give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u548	Mr. Chairman. I am showing on this map the countries in Europe that are currently closing the schools. They're blue colored. I would just like to show you what is going on and to point out that the decisions that are currently being taken by the government may not be entirely logical. I'd like to file three motions. The first is about schools, about education. In fact, I would like the cabinet to review tomorrow the decision taken today on the schools. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools are being closed in a rapidly increasing number of countries in and outside Europe;]] [[noting that this is done by appealing to the need to prevent the further spread of the coronavirus;]] [[noting that the Dutch Government wishes to leave MBOs and schools in primary and secondary education open by appealing to the need for care staff to be preserved;]] [[calls on the Government to explain as quickly as possible why the Dutch choices on this issue are so different from those elsewhere in Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to include in this letter the possibility of closing schools and to accommodate pupils whose parents work in vital sectors in a different way, as is the case in Belgium and Norway, and to send this letter to the Chamber this weekend,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Esch, Mr Krol and Mr Asscher.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u549	I'll read out the next two motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the spread of the corona virus poses a major threat to our public health and the functioning of our healthcare system;]] [[Whereas, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a practical public information campaign is an essential part of reducing the spread of the corona virus as far as possible;]] [[Notes that such a public campaign should be launched immediately;]] [[asks the cabinet to take care of this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u550	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. And then I'll almost stay in time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an emergency regulation has been introduced for the entire region of Hollands Midden to criminalise meetings of more than 100 people;]] [[Whereas national policies are desirable in order to avoid disparities between regions in terms of banning or restricting events;]] [[calls on the government to enter into central agreements with the security regions on how to deal with and enforce events and meetings of more than 100 people next Monday,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u551	Madam President, when the Italian doctor from Piacenza heard of the measures taken by the cabinet today, he telephoned the Volkskrant: what your Prime Minister has just decided is not enough to stop the virus. If these are the measures, you'll have 4,000 infections in a week. Let's get our chests wet. I'm filing four motions. The first one is about the schools. I find it a disgrace and play with people's lives to keep the schools open. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close all schools until at least 31 March 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u552	The Prime Minister has already said something about it, but I would still like to have it in black and white, if that motion were not to reach its conclusion, that people who decide not to send their children to school would in any case not be fined under the compulsory education law. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow parents to keep their children at home from school until 31 March this year without being fined under the Law on compulsory education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u553	Then there's another motion on intensive care. I really do not think it can be described with a pen that it is not certain that if the situation gets worse, we will not have problems with both intensive care beds and care staff. Perhaps even the choices that we would not want to make, as in Italy, should be made in the near future. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is absolutely vital that there are sufficient intensive care beds including care staff available;]] [[noting that it is unacceptable that in Italy there are poignant choices to be made between patients and that we must avoid this at all costs in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to use all its resources and to make every effort to achieve sufficient ic capacity in any case;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u554	Finally, a motion for a total ban on entry for all people from areas at risk. Whether they come through the land, the sea or the air, make sure they don't enter our country. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce an entry ban for people from corona-risk areas with immediate effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u555	This won't be the last debate on the corona virus. I think we'll be here about every week. One of the first issues we will discuss with each other, I believe, will be to reverse the decision of the cabinet not to close the schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u556	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u557	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering the many questions. It was sometimes a fierce debate, but I think that is also good, because there are many dilemmas in the balance between public health on the one hand and the prevention of social and economic disruption on the other. We have shown in this debate that Chamberwide nobody wants education to be seen as a babysitting factory. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has agreed to remain in dialogue with the educational field and also to support the sector. Mr Heerma will be tabling a motion on my behalf shortly. I would also like to ask the cabinet to discuss with the MBO and to consider whether the MBO cannot be put on the same course as for higher education. Finally, a motion for a resolution on the cultural sector, which is one of the sectors hit hardest at the moment, because of the scale of events of more than 100 people. Moreover, it is a soector where more than 60% have a flex contract or is working as a freelancer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas meetings with more than 100 persons are cancelled;]] [[Whereas this has a major impact on the cultural sector;]] [[Whereas the percentage of freelancers in the cultural sector is 60%;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has taken various measures to support entrepreneurs and employers in coping with the economic effects resulting from the outbreak of the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to work on a support package for the cultural sector in order to bear the consequences of this crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Krol, Mr Van Esch and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u558	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u559	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u560	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Compliments to the rulers for their work in this crisis. As far as I am concerned, the defence was not convincing only with regard to the educational decision. The Prime Minister says that we must base ourselves on facts and that the Chamber is doing micromanagement. In the meantime, however, he cannot take away from us the concern that circulation can indeed take place through the schools. The WHO report he quotes, which states that there are no cases of child to adult infection, also states: "it is not possible to determine the extent of infection among children, what role children play in transmission, whather children are less susceptible or if they present differently clinically." In other words, the World Health Organisation cannot establish this. If your main objective is public health and the prevention of risks for children, but also for teachers, adults and older people with weak health, then this should lead to the decision to minimise those risks. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to reconsider the decision of the Cabinet. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that non-closure of schools can contribute to the spread of the coronavirus and is an additional burden on teachers;]] [[whereas the OMT advises that schools should not be closed down now as this creates additional pressure on vital societal processes and care capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with proposals by 16 March at the latest in consultation with schools to accommodate parents' children who contribute to vital social processes or work in care and to allow schools to close as soon as these proposals can be introduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the coronavirus has a huge impact on the Dutch economy, businesses and employment;]] [[Whereas specific sectors such as catering, congress centers, hotels, public transport, aviation, concerts, museums and small entrepreneurs are hit hard;]] [[whereas only generic measures such as part-time work or deferred tax payments are insufficient;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to take sector-specific measures and propose an economic stimulus package and to inform the Court of Justice in the very short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Esch, Mr Kuzu and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-134]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Kuzu and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u561	Mr. Chairman. Today the debate was to a large extent about not wanting to close schools. A leading American virologist, Professor Howard Markel, says: don't wait until it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u562	Are you all gonna speak English tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u563	Yeah. After Mr. Asscher, I thought, "I can't stay behind." I have a motion on that. It is not common, but this motion has been co-signed by Mr Baudet. A combination of Kuzu-Baudet. If Kuzu and Baudet are able to find each other and this cabinet is left behind, that means something. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona virus is still spreading;]] [[Whereas in a number of other countries it has already been decided to close schools and other educational institutions in order to prevent further spread of the virus;]] [[Whereas the closure of schools can make a substantial contribution to combating the further spread of the corona virus;]] [[calls on the Government to consider closing primary and secondary schools for at least two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u564	Mr. Chairman. A second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona virus is still spreading;]] [[Whereas every effort must be made to prevent an acute shortage of ventilation equipment, mouth caps, disinfectants and ic facilities;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether, in the event of a critical shortage of necessary medical facilities, it is necessary to purchase them centrally and to coordinate their distribution with a view to considering the possibility of using the Ordering Act and the Distribution Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u565	And the final motion of my hand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona virus is still spreading;]] [[Whereas it is important that the groups most vulnerable to the corona virus, the elderly and the sick should be given the highest level of protection;]] [[Whereas it is therefore necessary to ensure that the staff of hospitals, nursing homes, senior housing and other places where these two groups are located are not themselves infected with the corona virus;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of testing all staff of hospitals, nursing homes, senior housing and other places where the elderly and the sick are, in order to ensure optimum protection of these vulnerable groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u566	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u567	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u568	Mr. Chairman. If the corona virus shows anything, it's that we're vulnerable. Vulnerable in our health, elderly, young people, food, economy, businesses. I cannot help but wish the cabinet once again a great deal of wisdom in dealing with this crisis and leading us out slowly but surely with wise decisions, of course together with people in health care and in all kinds of other responsible places. I have heard that the cabinet intends to communicate more fairly, more transparently, more frequently and more actively. Thank you for that. As far as education is concerned, I have noted that the protection of children and teachers is paramount and decisive. On one point, the cabinet did not accept the OMT's opinion. We have also debated this. On that point, I have a motion which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Outbreak Management Team recommends investigating the possibility of removing flights from areas where Covid-19 is outbreak, in order to prevent the import of patients;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has not adopted this opinion and has not taken measures to limit or control air traffic;]] [[Whereas flights continue to enter from areas severely affected by the corona virus;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of preventing flights from areas where a corona virus outbreak is taking place,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Veldman, Mr Jetten, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Asscher, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Esch, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Baudet and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u569	This is a nice line. The second motion concerns our food supply. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the maintenance of basic facilities, such as food supply, is crucial for the continued functioning of our society;]] [[Whereas it cannot be ruled out that future measures to combat the coronavirus will affect logistics around our food supply;]] [[calls on the Government to develop different scenarios to ensure that food production and supply of shops can continue, including alternative options, such as delivery of messages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Krol, Mr Van Esch, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Baudet, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u570	The motion is certainly widely supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u571	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u572	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate and thank the directors for answering all the questions put. It was a strong debate, and that is good. But in such a solid debate, we must not forget that we are in this crisis together and that we must resolve it together. I also really want to tell the Cabinet that we will continue to follow it critically and question it, but always from the point of view that we need to get out of this crisis together. On a number of points, I am reassured by the cabinet. Especially on the point that medical devices are now heading this way again, which can protect the people who have to do the hard work in health care. That is very necessary, because we cannot leave these people alone. We must ensure, as far as possible and with everything in our power, that they are protected. A great concern, and that has been said a few times, is really about education. I found the defense there and everything that was said about children who are safe, to say the least, unconvincing. The WHO has also prepared a guide for this. We just don't live up to that right now. The WHO says: if you want to keep schools open at the moment, then you really need to ensure that schools are disinfected every day, so that every day is cleaned. That is not the case. You also have to make sure that there are hand sanitizers in every classroom, with every toilet. That is not the case. I could go on like this for a while. The Prime Minister said that education is being consulted on what is necessary. But in this crisis, we do not go to education to ask: what do you need to keep your school open? In this crisis we say: "We want the school to remain open; to be able to do so safely, these and these measures are necessary. We bring them to you or you can order them and we pay them for you, but we give on a plate what the crisis is about." There is an important concern for me when it is said: we are going to consult with the field of education. This isn't a time to talk to them. If you want to keep the schools open, which I have doubts about, then we have to come up with solutions that will make it safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u573	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u574	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. We did not debate many of the measures announced yesterday, because there is broad support for them. A number of measures, in particular the role of schools, have been mentioned. For my group, too, this is still the most difficult point. I also find the answer unsatisfactory and unconvincing. Minister Bruins said, in short, that children should go to school so that parents can go to work. That still raises a lot of questions, also in the light of a rather strict policy, which sometimes also hits very hard, in order to bring no more than 100 people together. Schools sometimes have 1,200 pupils, with older people and young people mixed up. So that's still wringing. That is why I support the call for a review on this point. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Segers and I for their commitment to discuss with churches the problems they are experiencing and the solutions to them, including those of the Minister of Justice and Security in his role for the services of honour. And yet again heartfelt wisdom to all those who have a role to play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u575	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u576	Mr. Chairman. What we all share here today is that we have a shared responsibility to combat this crisis. All the measures that are being taken, today and later, will affect all of us, and everyone has a role to play in ensuring that they are respected as effectively as possible. A few more questions in response to the answers of the rulers. The public information. Thank you for the commitment of the Minister for Medical Care to give an overview of what he is going to do for whom, where and how. But somewhere in the middle he said: I will come to the Chamber next week with a letter about the state of affairs or the state of mind. In addition, I would like to urge him to act urgently. Today's measures also raise questions for people. What does it mean in concrete terms? How am I supposed to do it? Some urgency in this regard, I say, but very nuanced, would be worthy of me, so that we can inform the Dutch as soon as possible, in more ways than we do now, and provide them with answers. The Minister for Medical Care also referred to the Drug Deficit Report. That's true, that exists. But we are now in special circumstances. We see factories in China lying still for a long time, longer than usual if there is a production error. This calls for special measures. I would ask the Minister, more than he has now appointed in the debate, to make an effort to take measures where necessary specifically for the Netherlands, because we have a special situation in the Netherlands with some lower prices, so that deficits are prevented. Let me make a final comment on the sector-specific approach to trying to smooth out all kinds of economic disruptions that may occur. I also spoke to Mr Asscher about it. A sector-specific approach: yes, but, of course, sectors cannot only be served by generic measures. It is precisely this that calls for special measures. I would ask the cabinet to look at customization in its elaboration. Within the same sector, one company is not the other. It requires tailor-made work for companies themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u577	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u578	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Cabinet for the first-term replies. Following on from Mr Veldman, who just asked me to do so, I would like to hear more from the Minister about that coronajournaal. I didn't think the commitment that we're getting planning next week was good enough. I'd like to have more speed on that. Especially the elderly want that information better. I would like the promise that it will come soon and that it will not only be a planning but that it will be launched immediately. Schools have been the most widely debated here. There are concerns about the security of the measure being taken and the sustainability of the measure, but above all, many Members have mentioned what is being asked of schools and whether they are adequately addressed by the cabinet. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas RIVM has advised that, in connection with the coronapandemic events in the Netherlands, more than 100 people should not be allowed to continue, but that schools should not now be closed down;]] [[Whereas government measures to keep schools open place a heavy responsibility among schools and educational staff and that there are concerns about the quality of education and safety when many staff such as bra'ers and concierges stay sick at home;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the educational field, to develop a balancing framework with guidelines for teaching staff and to review the school decision day by day and to inform the Chamber;]] [[Calls on the Government to actively support schools and to give maximum freedom and space to organise education in such a way as to enable them to comply with RIVM guidelines and to facilitate the education or care of parents' children in critical professions;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with schools, to take all necessary measures to ensure maximum protection of the interests of (exam) pupils, teachers and support staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Jetten, Mr Klaver, Mr Segers, Mr Veldman, Mr Asscher and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u579	That's almost a book. No one understands anything about what's in that motion. Can I just ask the honourable Member whether the schools will remain open or close if his motion is adopted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u580	The motion does not ask, like Mr Wilders' motion, to close the schools now. However, the motion calls for a day-to-day review of the decision and for information to be given to the Chamber. The motion further asks the cabinet to provide more support for education. That's what the motion asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u581	I heard you just now, because you spent 15 minutes reading it to me, and the motion does require a lot of things. But the schools stay open, do I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u582	The motion was signed by a majority in any case and the co-signators understood it well. The motion is consistent with the concerns that have been widely shared in this house. But I also gave you the answer that the motion does not indeed ask the cabinet to close the schools now. However, the motion calls for a day-to-day evaluation of the school decision and for information to be given to the Chamber, precisely because of all the concerns that exist there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u583	I believe that you are a colleague of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, not the cabinet. I'll ask you the question. I just asked a question to the cabinet and it's a little strange that you should answer: don't ask the cabinet. I asked you a question about what it means. But it's crystal clear! For all the people who are furious about their children... Again, the Internet and our mailboxes explode. It is very important that the so-called family party, the CDA, now all those people, their children, the grandparents and grandmothers drop hard. The CDA is no use to them! The schools just stay open. The motion is a diarrhea of words and a tissue for bleeding. The schools remain open and the CDA leaves the people in the lurch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u584	I would like to give Mr Wilders his own interpretation, but it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u585	But that the motion is somewhat on the cryptic side, Mr Wilders is right. I'm also very curious to know how to interpret that motion. We need to vote on that in a moment. At least that's what I'm assuming, Mr. Chairman. Do you mean, as I said earlier in my speech, that the cabinet would do well to reconsider tomorrow's decision not to close the schools? Or does this motion actually say "we'll leave the cabinet," "it could be next week," "we'll see"? That is very important, because evaluation from day to day... Everyone evaluates everything from day to day. I believe that such a motion should be made clear whether there should be a review tomorrow or whether there should not be one as far as you are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u586	The motion of the SP calls for a final decision to be made on this matter before the weekend. This motion calls for various things, partly also expressed by the SP Group, to facilitate, support and facilitate schools, to enable them to do the heavy task they have. But also to continue to evaluate the measure as a whole, precisely in view of all the concerns that have been expressed. That does not mean tomorrow, but it means every day, day by day, so tomorrow also, but it can also be next week. Evaluating day to day is not "morning" as your motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u587	Mr. Hijink? No? Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u588	Thank you, Madam President. Two motions, but first thanks for the commitment to consult with health insurance to ensure that the costs of testing the coronavirus are not at the expense of one's own risk. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas messages are circulating about the exclusion of 80-plussers to the intensive care departments when the pressure on the ic's becomes too high;]] [[Whereas one 80-year-old is not the same as the other and survival depends on constitution and condition;]] [[calls on the government not to apply age limits but to treat each patient as an individual,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u589	And then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a lack of protective equipment such as mouth caps;]] [[Whereas the Minister is committed to increasing stocks and the distribution of protective equipment among medical personnel;]] [[Whereas home care workers and district nurses are also at great risk of becoming infected, as are the elderly themselves;]] [[calls on the Government also to provide home care workers and district nurses with the necessary protective equipment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Hijink, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Esch, Mr Klaver, Mr Kuzu, Mr Veldman and Mr Asscher.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u590	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We also thank the cabinet for answering all the questions this evening. Thank you very much for that. We don't have any motions, but a few more questions. First of all, the Animal Party has an unsatisfied feeling about all the answers that have come to the questions about non-closure of schools. That is why we will wholeheartedly support all the motions that call for these schools to be closed down as soon as possible. We insist that it is weird that this cabinet says that it would like to close them, but still follow the advice of the OMT. As far as we are concerned, if you really want to close them, you will find a solution to the potential problems that arise from the need for parents in these important sectors. That's not what the Cabinet's doing right now. We find that very unsatisfactory. Then there are a few brief questions. Thank you very much for the commitment to discuss the long-term health aspects of the coronavirus in the Q&A on the government website. In this respect, I would like to make a brief request, namely to update that website regularly when there is more information on the subject, because the investigations are not stopped and, as soon as there is more scientific knowledge, to address the concerns of people in this area. I wonder if we can reach a commitment on that, too, then we will have it all figured out. Let me briefly mention the fact that several studies indicate that even if they do not yet have any complaints, people may still be infected. It is now indicated 'we are just following the WHO scientists'. We understand that in itself, and yet I think: inform people about it on the Q&A on the government website. Let people there know this is the line we are currently following and we will continue to follow closely all the investigations that are coming. Then there's my last question. Before I see my time ticking away, I am still curious what the figure of 100 was based on. I think Mr Grapperhaus was going to try to answer that. Then there were several interruptions. So I guess I missed the answer. Other countries have different standards for this. I'm still curious how we got that number 100. I'll finish with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u591	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u592	Thank you, Madam President. 12 and 13 March: these are the dates of this debate. I note that the cabinet is in no way seriously concerned with the implications of the current pandemic. In an interrupting debate, the Minister of Health indicated that he did not even look at the situation in Singapore, the only successful country, perhaps alongside Hong Kong and Taiwan, but it is mainly Singapore where the corona virus has been successfully contained. Harvard said you should look at that. The World Trade Organisation has said: you have to look at that. Our health minister didn't even know what I was talking about. He may not even know where Singapore is. He's not working on it at all. He wants to learn from Italy. Well, good luck with that! I have four motions to make an attempt to change this disastrous policy. Because if this goes on like this, we'll really have an Italian scenario next week. That must be prevented. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coronavirus has developed into a pandemic and has also struck in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that flights from high-risk areas can still land unhindered in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that several countries have now refused flights from at-risk areas;]] [[Whereas the Corona virus cannot be effectively tackled in the Netherlands before the risk of infection from outside the Netherlands is reduced;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw, with immediate effect, the landing rights for passenger flights from all risk areas, including at least Italy, Iran and China,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet, Mr Wilders and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u593	Thank you. Motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to introduce border controls to control the borders during the containment of the coronavirus so that the crisis in its own country is not aggravated by an influx of corona patients from other countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u594	Motion three. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hospitals have recently been closed, such as the Slotervaart Hospital in Amsterdam;]] [[Whereas quarantine hospitals may be of use during the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the newly closed hospitals as quarantine hospitals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u595	Motion four. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona virus is advancing rapidly;]] [[noting that the government does not consider it necessary to close schools for the time being;]] [[whereas many parents are concerned about the real risk of their school children becoming infected;]] [[Whereas parents cannot be required to expose their children and vulnerable family members to real health risks as a result of legal obligations;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the compulsory education until further notice, until the coronavirus is under control,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet, Mr Krol and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u596	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u597	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u598	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the cabinet has found a good balance. Proportional measures are being taken, leading to the least possible disruption of society. In this context it may be nice, because there is, of course, a lot of talk about schools that are closing down, that Boris Johnson has just announced that schools in Britain will simply remain open. There are 60 million British people who just keep their heads cool. Mr. Chairman. Recently, there was a case of contagion at a school in Haarlem. There was a student with corona and with an appeal to privacy was not disclosed who that was. It wasn't even said which class the student was in. Privacy legislation is fine, but in a crisis you have to set the right priorities. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that privacy legislation such as the GDPR prevents proper and clear information on infected persons and this presents unnecessary risks;]] [[Whereas proportionate measures should be taken in a crisis situation and in certain cases justify a derogation from legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that information on cases of infected persons is clearly provided and to allow the health and safety of citizens to prevail over a possible violation of privacy at this time of crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u599	In view of the urgency of this matter, I was wondering whether there was any desire to vote immediately tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u600	That's what we're gonna do, if no one's gonna mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u601	Well, look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u602	Isn't that right? There is a need for a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u603	I didn't know this had been worked out, but this is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u604	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u605	Then in silence the spirit of the Chamber and mine...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u606	Well, unbelievable. And that at a quarter to two in the morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u607	Okay. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u608	I'm suspending the meeting until 2:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u609	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u610	Mr. Chairman. I will come straight to the motions, because I personally did not write down any questions for myself. The motion in part No. 126 I would like to advise against referring to the debate, in which we have, of course, discussed the issue in detail. That, of course, applies, as a follow-up to that, to the motion in part No. 127. Then the motions are on the pieces Nos. 128 and 129 with my colleagues. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 130.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u611	Okay, the motion in part No. 130.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u612	Sorry. I need to put them in the right order. I hear I have to make a judgment on the motion in part No. 129. I see they're numbered differently. The motion in part No. 126 was the Heink motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u613	All right, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u614	The motion in part No. 126 is the Heink motion. The motion in part No. 129 belongs to Wilders. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 130 is the Wilders/Baudet motion. I make my motions, I just want to make sure the colleagues fill the other motions. I hear I just made the motion to part no. 127. I'm saying it wrong, so I'm gonna say it again. The motion in part No. 126, tabled by Mr Hijink, has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 129 of Wilders has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 130 of Wilders and Baudet, who are talking about the same design, has been discouraged, although it is of course true that compulsory schooling will be considered, with a certain understanding if there are good reasons or less severe enforcement, but in general the compulsory education is simply compulsory. The motion in part No. 131 then sits with a colleague and the motion in part No. 132 I'm on again. It is about the support package for the cultural sector. Judgment Chamber, in the sense that we will engage in discussions with various sectors. The motion in part No. 134 I should like to advise against referring to the debate and based on the OMT opinion. The motion in part No. 135 is Judgment Room. Today came the first letter and other letters will follow. The motion in part No. 136: dissuade with reference to that part of the discussion. The motions on pieces No. 137, 138, 139 and 140 are with colleagues. The motion in part No. 141 is for me again. That's the motion, Lordma. I interpret this motion in such a way that Mr Heerma says that under these conditions the schools can remain open. With that interpretation, the judgment is Chamber. I understand the motion so that if this is properly arranged, the schools can stay open. Then we have the motions on pieces no. 142, 143, 144, 145 and 146. The motion in part No. 147 has been dissuaded. But once again, I do refer to the fact that for the motion in part No. 147 However, we know from the education inspector that she will not be on top of that immediately and will really look at specific circumstances. Then I'm out of motions, Mr. Chairman. The other motions do the men again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u615	That's good. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u616	I would like to come back to the motion on item No. 141 by Mr Heerma and others. We were just having a discussion about how to interpret this motion. Now I understand that Mr Heerma says: we really want to be able to consider day to day whether this is a sensible decision. The Prime Minister actually says: I read the motion in such a way that if we organize this, the schools can stay open. That's a slightly different interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u617	Everything in here, we're all gonna do, and if you do all that... Of course, you're gonna weigh that again day to day. That's how it says, you keep monitoring it. That's what it says. Totally fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u618	It's about the motion in part No. 130 by Mr Wilders. I interpreted the motion in Mr Wilders' submission in such a way that if parents keep their children at home until 31 March because of corona, the request is not to impose fines under compulsory schooling, and not to put aside the entire compulsory education law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u619	The point is that compulsory schooling is just a matter of principle, and there are also fines. Just, in practice, I expect that if parents have a good story with that, that'll work. You cannot say in general terms already that there are no fines at all. I can't. I can't sign for that. It's just a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u620	That's a little lame. The Prime Minister must also try to move a little. The good story is, of course, and so I explained the motion, that it must be about corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u621	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u622	It's not just about the whole law of compulsory education. The point is - and I explained this in a way - that at the moment when the motion to close the schools does not make it, parents will not be fined if they decide not to let their child go to school anyway because they are afraid or I know a lot of whatever reason. That's not about the Law of Learning. That's the good story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u623	I can't say that, because the law on compulsory education applies, and time for education is time for education. As I said, our expectation is that the educational inspection or the person applying compulsory schooling will, of course, take account of the special circumstances, not the inspection but the compulsory education authorities. You can't say in general: if parents from corona care keep their child at home, the fine doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u624	You could say that. That's the same story as what you're saying. The minute you don't let your kid go to school because of Corona and the schools are still open, you don't get a fine. Don't be silly. That's a fair story, isn't it? That's not the Law of Learning or any fine, that's just the story...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u625	But is it because the kids have corona, or because they care about corona?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u626	Well, not because they have corona, 'cause then they're already gonna be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u627	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u628	The point is that those parents are scared...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u629	I understand that very well. Then I don't agree. I'm sorry. You agree that the schools remain open because of all the circumstances that we do not widely agree on here, a big point in this debate; just division. There is strict advice and we follow it. Then there is the motion for a resolution, and I made a number of commitments during the debate which make that very special. We're really gonna monitor this from day to day. Of course it can be that a parent says: I'm really so worried, I'm keeping my baby at home anyway. I understand that and I am sure that those special circumstances will be taken into account when it comes to the granting of a fine or not. But I can't just say here from the executive power: then that fine doesn't apply. That's going too far again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u630	The Prime Minister is factually correct. You can't say: then the fine doesn't apply. What you can say is, we don't maintain. That's how I take the motion. It's been a while, but I think he's been Secretary of State to that department. So he knows that much better than we all do together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u631	I think it's too black and white. I really think it's too black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u632	You can say we don't maintain. You can say that. I don't want to, but it's not like I can't. We can say from here: if people keep their children at home, then we are not going to enforce them as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u633	In practice, I expect it to go away when parents say that they really have that fear of corona and so on. But I'm not gonna promise that here. No. That motion is now in place, but my advice remains unadvised. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u634	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u635	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 127 is about the immediate launch of a public campaign. In the light of the remark that we want to intensify communication policy, I find it strange to say that I am going to discourage this motion. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Heerma, Mr Veldman and Mrs Diertens, who made a point about this last week. So we're gonna do a little more. We're gonna step up. I am trying to find out what good communication measures that might be. I still have a little plan of action or an overview of what means of communication there are. I shall therefore give this motion judgment, Chamber, in view of the comments made by several other Members of Parliament. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 131 is mine. That motion is about ensuring that there is enough ic-capacity anyway. The cabinet is working to the maximum with the care sector to organize the necessary ic-beds, but infinite guarantees are of course never to be given. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 131 therefore. Then I come to the motion on part No. 137 on the use of the Enforcement Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u636	Before you proceed, Mr Wilders on the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u637	Mr President, this is incredibly unbelievable, the willingness or unwillingness of the cabinet to do anything with these motions. That's just silly, I'll tell the Prime Minister and the Minister for Medical Care. It simply says in the operative part: "calls on the government to use all means and to do everything in its power to achieve enough IC capacity in any case." How the hell can you discourage that? Isn't that what everybody wants? Isn't that what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u638	I read a guarantee in "enhanced." "Anyway, to achieve enough IC capacity" is as I read and explain the motion and then I give as a judgment: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u639	It doesn't say "guarantee."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u640	"Equipment." I read in that a result obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u641	Warranties are available on vacuum cleaners, as the Prime Minister says, but here it says "workable."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u642	"Edit" I read as a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u643	That is also the intention, because the intention is that you try to use everything and try to do everything to ensure that we have enough ic in the Netherlands. That's what everyone wants. Isn't that what we can ask our cabinet to do, to ensure that we have enough places in intensive care in a time of crisis? Why don't you tell me that you're going to do your best to do that and make sure we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u644	I'm looking at the operative part of the motion. Mr Wilders puts it a little differently. He is talking about trying to do the job, but the operative part of the motion is to achieve enough ic capacity in any case. That's a guarantee obligation, and I can't give it to you. Not an infinite capacity guarantee, because it cannot be offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u645	For the last time. We're in a crisis. There's gonna be more infected people soon, if we're a little unlucky, and I'm afraid that's gonna happen. This means that there is even more recourse to the ic's. We heard the people at the hearing and on TV saying there's only a few hundred places left. With this motion, we ask the Minister to do everything in his power to ensure that there are enough places. If we can't ask, if you say, "I can never promise," where do we live here? In Zimbabwe or something, or what? Just say that! Just tell me this is possible! Isn't that what the Minister's gonna let us ask for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u646	I'm looking at the operative part, and on that ground, I'm counseling this motion. I have already told you that with the care sector, the Cabinet is doing the utmost to organise the necessary beds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u647	Yes, but Mr Wilders has indicated what he means by achievement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u648	Yeah, but I read that as a guarantee, and I'm not going to deviate from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u649	A point of order. I hope that helps. Thank you to the colleagues. Then I will delete 'anyway' in the operative part and then the operative part becomes: 'calls on the government to use all means and to do everything possible to achieve sufficient ic capacity'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u650	The Wilders/Asscher motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is absolutely vital that there are sufficient intensive care beds including care staff available;]] [[noting that it is unacceptable that in Italy there are poignant choices to be made between patients and that we must avoid this at all costs in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to use all its resources and to make every effort to achieve sufficient IC capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 131 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u651	Then I read it as an effort obligation. That's a commitment I made. Then I'll give this motion judgment Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 137: central purchasing and see if the Ordering Act can be of service. I am further than the motion, because the question of whether the Enforcement Act can be of assistance to us was asked last week by Mr Veldman. I figured that out. The instrument of the Enforcement Act can be used. I don't want to use it, because I really think it's an ultimum remedium, but I'm way beyond this motion. This one asks for a look at the possibilities, so I advise against the motion in part No. 137. Then the motion to part No. 138: test all care personnel for corona. I advise against this motion. It's unnecessary to test people without any complaint, so I'm not suggesting the motion in part number. 138.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u652	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Can't I say anything about a motion? Oh, no, I'm not in this debate at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u653	No, you're not in. It's good to see you. I really appreciate you coming to greet me, Mrs Ploumen. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u654	Before I come to the next motion, Mr Veldman asked for the overview of these means of communication to be made available to various target groups as a matter of urgency. I will. I will make every effort to avoid shortages, including in the case of generic medicines. I will also make those efforts. Mr Heerma had asked me a question about the daily news bulletin. Tomorrow morning there will be a discussion with the media about various formats. I'm confident those conversations are going well. I'm going to try to inform you in writing about the progress by next Wednesday at the latest. In the motion in part No. 142 the government is asked not to apply age limits, but to treat each patient as an individual. We do not set age limits for ic recordings. I'm giving this motion judgment room. In the motion in part No. 143 is also requested to provide home care workers and district nurses with the necessary protective equipment. Judge Chamber if I may read the motion in such a way that it concerns protective equipment for the care of clients who have symptoms of corona or any other infection. I assume that's what the motion was about. Finally, I have the motion in part No. 146, which calls for the recently closed hospitals to be set up as quarantine hospitals. I advise against this motion. There is currently enough room for isolation in existing hospitals. There are also not just extra care workers to be able to man all that. So, the motion in part No. 146 is not recommended. Then I'm out of my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u655	Thank you. Just a little longer. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u656	I didn't have any motions, but I did have two questions, and I'm sure they belong to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u657	Yeah, that's right. It concerns the question of putting information on the long-term effects on the site if we know more about it. And it also concerns the other question, about the misunderstood complaints. Can we put a Q&A on the site about that? I'm gonna go look, but I understand that question. We think that's relevant. At that point, I'm going to add a Q&A to the government site.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u658	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u659	Mr. Chairman. I thought Mrs Van Esch had also asked me a question. The figure of 100 is based on the OMT opinion. As explained orally, the question of what should be seen as an event of magnitude, with that 100 drawing a realistic limit, has been raised. That's the basis for putting it at 100. It didn't have to be too small, and we can also imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u660	Very briefly. That makes sense on the one hand, but in other countries you hear very different numbers. I wonder if the Minister could ask how the OMT reaches 100 when it is 300 or 400 in other countries. In Berlin it's 1,000. So how do we get to 100 and other countries to that other number? I'm gonna miss that background information right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u661	That is an expert assessment of what is good as maximum bet to minimise the risk of virus spread through events. Then you come out, say the experts, at 100. By the way, the 1,000 of Brabant was much lower than the 5,000 that the cabinet published on Monday. In the opinion, the OMT has literally said: we think 100 is the most ideal number in this respect. Other countries undoubtedly have a slightly different number. This may be due to demographics and the degree of population density. That could all be a reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u662	Just a little while longer. Isn't this another subject to be discussed in such a European crisis council? Because there are also just international events. People are still crossing the border. I think it is important to put such a subject on the agenda, as there are different views within Europe on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u663	I certainly do not exclude that from the agenda. Tomorrow is the lunch of Home Affairs Ministers and EU representatives in Brussels. I am sure that this kind of element will be discussed there. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. First of all, I have the motion in part No. 128 on the security regions and the Monday conversation. If I may delete the word "centrally," then I can give that motion judgment Chamber. It says: 'calls on the government to make central agreements with the security regions next Monday'. Make a deal, yeah. But "centrally" again suggests that it would all be uniform with all those security regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u664	That's a crucial word. On the contrary, I wanted to prevent the one region from banning certain meetings, whether it be weddings or other things, and maintaining them very hard, while 40 kilometres away in another region, there are quite different considerations. I do not mean the exact same agreements, but I do want the security regions to have a kind of clear policy on how we are going to maintain it. I want national arrangements for the events, the meetings that will be held in the coming weeks. Otherwise we will get randomness, and I do not think you should want to have it between the different regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u665	In my experience, there is never any arbitrariness in the security regions in applying such advice or even indications. Then I'll have to discourage the motion. Otherwise, we are going to have a whole 20-minute debate here about what exactly these nuances are like. We are going to agree on the approach and enforcement, but it will not be possible to make it fully uniform for all security regions. Because that really depends on local situations. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u666	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u667	Well, of course, it doesn't have that much to do with it anymore. Then it just says: we're going to go with the security regions on Monday, and that's where agreements come out. Yeah, and those appointments could be anything. Then I might as well withdraw the motion altogether. It is precisely a question of a clear policy. But the Minister doesn't want that, so we'll see how we vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u668	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u669	No, it's not like I said there's no uniform policy. But if you say that we are going to make central agreements on enforcement, that does not leave the security region the room that I am actually giving them to apply a certain degree of local space. I'm gonna break a lance for them not to do that at random. So dissuade it. The motion in part No. I also advise 132 of Mr Wilders. I have already said that these flights will be discussed in the very short term. All invaders, that's not a physical enforceable ban. So I'm deceiving the motion. Then the motion Segers c.s. in piece No. 139 in which the government is asked to examine the possibilities of preventing flights. Well, judge Chamber, although we are already beyond that, because it will be decided in the short term. But I'm giving the motion judgment room. The motion in part No. 140 on food production is also judged Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 144 by Mr Baudet. Mr Baudet asked for immediate withdrawal of landing rights for passenger flights and so on. So that's after this debate. That's how I interpret it. The Prime Minister has made it very clear that we will come up with a decision on this in the very near future, but that will not be tonight. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Then the motion to part No. Mr Baudet's 145, which states: 'calls on the government to introduce border controls during containment and so on'. I don't recommend that motion. We have a very solid package of measures. I have talked about this in detail. And such an entry ban is not recommended by the OMT either. So dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u670	Mr President, a personal fact: the correction of my last name is "bodè," without "t." Since there are two more motions coming up, you will have the chance to say it again twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u671	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the information that Mr Van Haga talked about. If I make his motion, in part no. 148 I understand that he is asking me to provide a proper balance between sharing information on cases of infected persons on the one hand and privacy on the other, and I leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u672	That was exactly the intention of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u673	I'm a little surprised by judgment on this motion. In Mr Van Haga's second term, he first praised the need to keep the peace and not go hysterical. He then called for a kind of taking-and-shaming, by publishing names of infected patients, with the example of the school in Haarlem. I hope, however, that the cabinet does not intend to do so with the judgment on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u674	That is certainly not the intention. I have read the motion and I have just said that if I can understand the motion in such a way that it asks me to provide a proper balance between privacy and the sharing of information, then I will give it to the Chamber. I would like to stress this once again, including for Mr Jetten. "In the interests of emergency services too," I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u675	Of course, it is absolutely not the intention to proceed to take-and-shaming, but to find a good balance between the privacy and the security of the people. You can do that without turning into taking-and-shaming. I merely ask for careful implementation of this motion so that the people concerned can be informed. So not like what happened in Haarlem, where people didn't know. The point is that a step further is being taken and that the GDPR is considered to be a little less important in this respect. But I think the Minister has just explained it in a very nice way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u676	I would add that, in any case, there will be no naming-and-shaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u677	Let me get this straight. Just now, the Prime Minister had a very specific explanation of the meaning of words. Minister Bruins, the Minister of Medical Care, had that, too. But I really read here: the health and safety of the citizen at this time of crisis "to be allowed to prevail" over the possible violation of privacy. It doesn't say "balance" or anything like that. So I see from this minister that he wishes to go with Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. I don't see that with the other two rulers. So I ask this minister again: how am I supposed to read it? You speak of 'balance', but here it is very clearly stated in the operative part: 'let it prevail'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u678	Then we will indeed do exegesis on everything else in the motion. I'd be happy to do that at this late hour, too. There's talk of possible violation. I have made it very clear that there must always be a good balance between privacy and the sharing of information that is important for the emergency services. That's how I explain it. This simply runs along the lines of the decisions of the Personal Data Authority and its case law. That is the explanation I am now giving to the motion. I understood from Mr Van Haga that that is the correct explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u679	Sorry, Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions. One of them is about this motion. How does it relate to medical professional secrecy? We're not gonna sacrifice medical confidentiality halfway through the night because there's a virus out there that we're fighting? It doesn't seem to me like we're going to turn in on that kind of fundamental stuff. Then what are the data that the Minister thinks can be shared more widely, whereas that cannot be done now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u680	That is where Mr Hijink has a point in itself. That is why I gave that explanation to the motion because I really cannot go into this case. I just want to know: there must always be a good balance between privacy and sharing information of interest to the emergency services. Then there may be situations that a judge will also judge: in this case it was proportionate, legitimate and effective, in short, the objective test of justice in order to make personal protection law somewhat relative here. There is a great deal of Court case law on this. If it goes by that line, I don't have much trouble with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u681	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u682	My final question concerns the motion for a resolution on item No. 128, about maintaining events. Thanks to Mr Heerma, who suggested that I change 'central agreements' to: make joint agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u683	No. Because that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u684	So I do not want to say that it is automatically the same agreements, but that it can be decided, for example, in cooperation between regions: we now think it is appropriate, for example, to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u685	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u686	Wait a minute. ... we now consider it appropriate, for example, to take additional measures in Brabant. But this does not happen without joint consultation between the regions, precisely in order to prevent it from getting too out of hand and not being aware of each other's actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u687	I must admit that Mr Hijink was right when he ordered me to wait. I did. He's got a good point. If he replaces "centrally" with "jointly," then I will still pass judgment on the motion to the Chamber later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u688	Thank you. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u689	Mr. Chairman. I want the motion in part no. 137 withdraw.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u690	Since the Kuzu motion (No ) has been withdrawn, is no longer a matter of procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u691	The Hijink motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an emergency regulation has been introduced for the entire region of Hollands Midden to criminalise meetings of more than 100 people;]] [[Whereas national policies are desirable in order to avoid disparities between regions in terms of banning or restricting events;]] [[calls on the government to agree jointly with the security regions on how to deal with and enforce events and meetings of more than 100 people next Monday,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 128 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-12-tweedekamer-13.u692	This brings us to the end of this debate. We shall vote in five minutes on the motions tabled.
