ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u1	It's nitrogen day today. We are about to deal with a government proposal in this area, but we are beginning with the proposal of the law of the Member Mrs Bromet amending the Nature Protection Act and some other laws relating to the adoption of measures on nitrogen emissions and the inclusion of a basis for subsidy for livestock reduction and nature enhancement, Parliament's Document 35444. I would like to welcome the initiator, Mrs Bromet. She is supported in box K by three members of her group, Mrs Anneke Rooth, Mr Yorian Bordes, who sits in the middle of four women, I see Mrs Sanne Liefers. You're very welcome. They're familiar faces to me. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Mr Moorlag, I actually wanted to give Mrs Kröger the floor, but I can't get around you, because you are so big and so front-to-front. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, on a point of order. This afternoon we are discussing the Minister's law and I have heard that the Minister has concluded two agreements, namely an agreement with the provinces on the use of natural resources, but also an agreement with a number of groups in this Chamber on the amendment of the law and on the conclusion of an agricultural agreement. We have had a letter about the agreement with the provinces, but not about the other. I would be grateful if we could receive a letter from the Minister of LNV on the proposed legislative proposals and the other matters agreed, including the implementation of an agricultural agreement. Then we can also have a well-founded debate this afternoon. I make this request on behalf of the colleagues of GroenLinks and the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u3	Yes. But I understand that this relates to this afternoon's debate. Is that right? It does not concern Mrs Bromet's bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, that is correct. In order to be able to conduct the debate properly this afternoon, there is a need for that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's good. I understand. I'll see if the Minister can say anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr President, it is of course not for me to decide when a law is to be dealt with. That's up to your room. I can say at the same time that I think this afternoon in the debate... This isn't an agreement. We have talked about a number of amendments which were very important for some groups, and about motions. In my opinion, they can simply be tabled this afternoon during the debate. But again, it is not for me to set your agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u7	Good. Then you can make your contribution this afternoon, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u8	I want to make a point anyway. In the media, we have heard that the Minister has committed himself to a number of amendments. In order to be able to properly assess that law, it is necessary to know the impact of those amendments. The Minister has a device for that. The Minister also expressed in the media that there would be an agricultural agreement. Then it's legitimate to ask a letter about that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u9	Yes, but the problem of nitrogen is being discussed this afternoon, and so is the law and the amendments. Is that correct, Mr Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes, amendments are being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yes, and during the debate the amendments will be assessed. That's the M.O., right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u12	That is the way it works, but the Minister has already committed himself to these amendments in the media in advance. I would like to know from the Minister what the impact of these amendments is and what agreements have been reached on the conclusion of an agricultural agreement, which the Minister has also committed himself to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u13	Yeah, okay. Then I'm going to see Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u14	I would very much like to support my colleague in this. We read all sorts of things in the media last night about these amendments and how the law would or would not have been amended. Then we'd like to be able to judge that. But right now, we need to find out from the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Minister is listening. Mr Futselaar thinks: I am going to make this little procedural debate a little more complicated or less complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u16	As far as I know, the law hasn't been adapted. Amendments are being tabled. The first amendments have been tabled, both by myself and by the members of the coalition, as well as by GroenLinks, I have seen. Those amendments will be discussed and assessed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u17	The Minister has been listening. I suggest that we continue to deal with Mrs Bromet's bill. I was actually going to give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yes, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. For a year and a half, the Netherlands has had a nitrogen crisis, because the judge has ruled that the nitrogen policy we had is contrary to the Birds and Habitats Directives. But the nitrogen crisis, which we should call a natural crisis, has been there for much longer. As a result of nitrogen emissions, natural areas are affected, biodiversity is declining and the economy is now in danger of being shut down. From the cabinet it was quiet for a long time. Prime Minister Rutte mentioned the nitrogen crisis as the biggest crisis that happened to him as Prime Minister. Those were words before the corona crisis broke out, I have to say, but a real nitrogen crisis approach was not. The government's top priority was to continue building motorways or not to actually solve the problem of nitrogen. I'm thinking from my own portfolio of plans to open Lelystad Airport. The broadening of the A27 that we discussed last Monday shows to me how incredibly intransparent the nitrogen accounting is going on: a highway at the expense of irreplaceable nature. It is clear that there must be convincing policies. Convincing policy that stands by a judge, so that the judge will not again judge that the Birds and Habitats Directives are not being complied with. The cabinet made up all sorts of things to avoid a real solution, whereas thanks to the Remkes Committee, that real solution is still ready to go. The Remkes Committee's opinion left nothing to be desired: there is a need to halve nitrogen emissions by 2030. As long as we do not, this remains an incredibly fragile legal project and there is a good chance that we will be discussing this again in the foreseeable future, because there are all kinds of cases in the courts and the economy is in danger of falling silent again. That is why I am very pleased that we are here this morning to deal with Bromet's bill, which lays down the opinion of the Remkes Committee in legislation. The key question for me is: is this the law that is legally sustainable? I'd like to hear that from the proposers. Are we coming out of the nitrogen crisis with this law? Why is the initiator convinced of this? In view of the sensitivity of this dossier, it is also important to know about the broad support for the law. There are a lot of interested parties: nature organisations, agriculture, construction, entrepreneurs, etc. They all have an interest in a good, solid, reliable nitrogen law, because nature is intrinsically very important and people want to enjoy it, but also because the builders must continue to build and undertake entrepreneurs. Have all interested parties been consulted? Who did the initiator all talk to? What is the public support of this law? Can the initiator say more about this? We have all seen the fierce demonstrations of the peasants. What is the reaction of the initiator to the concerns of farmers? How does it intend to ensure that Dutch farmers can be sustainable and actually implement this nitrogen law? Then, of course, there is the other law that we are going to deal with this afternoon. Perhaps the initiator could explain what she thinks are the major differences between her bill and that of the cabinet. In view of last night's developments, I have to say that this is a difficult task, as we have had to learn it from the media. The bill sets a target for 2040 that deals with critical deposition values. All nature reserves must comply with this requirement. Why is this objective necessary with regard to the initiators? Mr President, I shall conclude. I look forward to the answers of the initiator and I hope that this bill will receive a large majority. This is in the interests of nature and the economy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In front of us is an initiative legislative proposal from a Dutch Parliamentary Group which has been given limited support which a whole ministry has failed to achieve. That's good work from the GroenLinks Group. There's support from builders, there's support from SMEs, there's even support from farmers. The future-oriented farmers are those that set a target for emission reduction of 50% by 2030. That is really the minimum necessary to stop the decline of nature. Of course, this initiative law cannot be separated from the cabinet's legislative proposal, whatever that bill may eventually look like. In De Telegraaf we read that things are going to look different, but how, we haven't heard from the cabinet yet. We have now received an amendment and we still have to study it, but the law will look different than we thought last night. Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen crisis is not a technically complicated problem, for which the best minds had to be put together for a year. It's a political problem. The Party for Animals was therefore not enthusiastic about setting up the Remkes Committee a year and a half ago. The problem and the solutions have long been clear. And then such a committee will be set up, especially to buy time. It took a year. The advisory committee arrived and we see what happens to the final opinion. The opinion is 50% reduction in 2030, but the cabinet does not want it. It's a political problem. It is therefore very good that GroenLinks has taken the initiative to put the Remkes Committee's opinion in a legislative proposal. Let us not forget that we are not yet there with a generic reduction of 50%. Certainly, this will dilute the thick nitrogen blanket that is now lying over the Netherlands, and that is absolutely necessary. But for many nature reserves this remains insufficient. I repeat: nitrogen accumulates in the soil. It's a accumulation. And that has been happening over the past few decades. As long as the nitrogen precipitate remains above a certain limit value, the quality of nature will continue to deteriorate. It is therefore particularly important for the highly congested nature areas to be below that limit. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions for the initiator. In the explanatory statement we read that a significant reduction in livestock is inevitable. That's right. But then the initiators don't record that. How many fewer animals should we breed, use and kill? Can't we just say that? 'Cause that can't be taboo, can it? Let me say again: in order to achieve the natural and climate objectives, we need to keep 75% less animals. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this could and should have been included in the bill. Now it seems that the taboo should be maintained as a result of a substantial reduction in the number of animals in livestock farming. I'd like a response from the initiators. In addition, the initiators have chosen not to lay down the nitrogen reduction measures. This means, in practice, that the provinces are left with difficult political choices. How this ammonia reduction should be achieved will have to be fought out in the different provinces. That's gonna be quite a job, because the CDA is in 11 out of 12 provinces. How does GroenLinks intend to prevent provinces from deciding to waste taxpayers' money on technological laps, which do cost a lot but in practice produce little or nothing? I'd like to hear the answer. Mr. Chairman. After this question and comment, I should like to say that I am generally pleased that the legislative proposal is now in place. The initiator clearly states that more nature is needed to achieve the nature goals, and not less. Animal and plant species are particularly difficult to survive in small, fragmented areas, in small, shredded pieces of stamp nature. These natural areas need to be expanded and linked together. My group therefore very much appreciates that the initiative law lays down the implementation of the original main ecological structure. Nature sighs under much more than just nitrogen. Drought and fragmentation, among other things, are extremely serious problems. Nitrogen is now getting all the attention because it has stopped licensing, but it is actually too sad for words that we only then take action to really do something for nature. Mr President, I shall conclude. I thank the initiator for drafting this bill and my group will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. It is always nice to see colleagues in the Lower House who defend an initiative proposal. I would therefore like, on behalf of the CDA Group, to express my appreciation for this, but also for the work that has been done in the drafting of this initiative law. I know Mrs Bromet as an involved MP with a great heart for nature. The written answer to the questions raised by the Court shows that nitrogen is a complex and comprehensive problem. Van GroenLinks has a bald framework law in place, which, according to the initiators, is aimed at achieving a good conservation status for Natura 2000. We have chosen to go for the same reduction rate as the Remkes Committee. However, all further choices that need to be made in substance have been pushed forward. I have a question about that. Why did the initiators advance the substantive choices, so I would like to ask Mrs Bromet. Now that no further choices have been made, I wonder whether the objectives of this initiative proposal can be achieved. GroenLinks says very loudly that the proposal is positive in the socio-economic field. However, it is not clear to me what that statement is based on. Do the initiators agree with me that craftsmanship of entrepreneurs should be rewarded? Do they agree that the goal should be central, not the means? Have the initiators seen a passing on of the policy recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Nitrogen Problems, say the Remkes Committee, for example through the PBL? I read that the initiators want to leave to the provinces to adopt a programme of measures to achieve the objectives. I have a great heart for provinces and I support a territorial approach, but I cannot appreciate it as much as all provinces can decide on this matter. Let me give you an example. GroenLinks believes that the Empire establishes an environmental value and that municipalities and provinces should be able to give their own spin to it. Is that right, if I say so? If so, this could lead to arbitrary measures. You will only be an entrepreneur who, because of the location of his or her company, has to do with several municipalities in different provinces. There are these situations in the Netherlands. The CDA Group also asked in its written input to clarify the words "legally sustainable" and "sustainably resolved." I quote GroenLinks' reply: "It is particularly important to show convincingly that the policies implemented lead to a good state of conservation of Natura 2000 sites." In addition, there is a further follow-up: "The applicants are confident that this law will provide sufficient security for this." It kind of freaked me out. That is why I have the following question: what is the basis for this trust and how is it demonstrated? Then there's the monitoring. I read that land management and organisations are given the opportunity, if they cannot agree to the content of a field report, to add a view with alternative analyses. This also applies to others involved, so I wondered when I was reading this. That is a question I like to ask the initiator. My question as to what economic activities the initiators think they can facilitate with their legislative proposal comes in response that has been chosen for a positive list. According to the initiators, this positive list contains only nature restoration measures, the construction and opening of residential areas, dike reinforcements and other water safety measures, public transport and energy transition projects. Then I will make a very brief argument: on the basis of this positive list, food production is out of the Netherlands and solar panels instead. There is no incentive for employment, because industrial sites or SMEs are not a priority. I'd like a reflection of the initiator on this. I also noticed that infrastructure in the vicinity of Natura 2000 sites will have to be terminated according to the initiators. Is this meant, for example, on the A1 and the A50? Is ending infrastructure near Natura 2000 sites really what GroenLinks wants? That is independent of the fact that it will become increasingly difficult for me to come home, but that aside. I thought: let me also mention my personal interest here before anyone else does. Or is it not worth noting that an adopted law, the explanatory memorandum and the reply to the written procedure accompanying that law have a little more effect than merely a motion? I'd like to put that question to the initiator. Mr. Chairman. What I didn't get an answer to is why the initiators choose for the period 2014 to 2017 and not for the period 1990 to 2019 when they talk about NO and ammonia emissions. Nor did I get an answer to the question whether or not it is recognised that the target for 2027 in relation to the number of hectares of Nature Network Netherlands has been met. I would like a substantive response to both points. Mr. Chairman. In short, the present legislative proposal seems to be more ambitious in the first instance, but does not prove to be very concrete in the end. Unfortunately, several written questions have not been answered in substance, giving me little confidence that this framework law will solve the nitrogen crisis. But perhaps the initiators are going to make a clear and trustworthy argument. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, first of all, congratulations to the initiators for making the initiative law. This is the main way for the Chamber to direct itself in a legislative process. I know from experience how much work it is for MPs and employees, who should always be thanked explicitly, but I am sure the initiator will do so himself. I would also like to say that, if you put so much work into an initiative law, the most unpleasant thing is that the political reality around you is about to change. It is regrettable that this is the way things are going in that order. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bromet's bill is a good attempt to get out of the nitrogen crisis. I recognise very well the desire to achieve a higher ambition than the cabinet. However, I have a number of comments to make on the legislative proposal. First one's next. The legislative proposal imposes a number of exemptions from the nitrogen law, such as the construction of specific projects in the areas of housing, dikes and energy generation, provided they fall within a threshold. That is a bit like the temporary construction waiver that the cabinet has included in its legislative proposal. However, the Council of State has explicitly said that this is a matter for a credible and structural programme if this is to be maintained. It is therefore very obvious that if you come up with a list of exceptions of your own, there will also be a structural and credible programme. I do not blame the authors for not being able to produce a detailed programme without a PBL and a huge administrative organisation. That is simply not feasible. However, an indication of what is needed would be useful in that context, including for the legal sustainability of the law. I mean, the Council of State doesn't give that kind of advice for nothing. I see in the answer to the written questions both Mr Geurts and Mr Wassenberg have referred to that. Of course, that's very complicated. Provinces do indeed have quite a course of their own. There is also some concern about the progress in provinces in another law that we are going to deal with today. Of course, you have to agree on the resources, because it costs billions to eventually come to the reduction you want. Whatever route you choose, it's a very expensive operation. How is that compatible in practice? A practical question. Suppose on Tuesday the Chamber agrees to this initiative law without an appropriate package. Then there will be an assignment, I assume: make this appropriate package that is necessary for the law. But I understand that the exemptions you are proposing will run from the moment the law comes into force. In my view, a situation will then arise in which we use nitrogen deposition for those exemptions that we have not yet won. Is there not a very complex situation which is also legally vulnerable? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now turn to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD Group. I call Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The handling of an own-initiative proposal is always special. It is not often in the Chamber that colleagues make a proposal of their own to solve a problem, and that deserves to be appreciated. Especially for a complicated, complex, comprehensive problem like the nitrogen problem, that is not easy. As you said, Mr President, it is a special day, because there are two legislative proposals before us today. Mrs Bromet's proposal is in competition with the cabinet bill that will be dealt with later today. Let me say this straight away: in the balance between these, appreciation of the commitment does not mean that we, as the VVD Group, can also support Mrs Bromet's proposal. As we have already pointed out in the input to the report, we are not convinced of the feasibility of the 2030 target and we also lack an understanding of how the reduction should be achieved in the shorter and longer term. The reaction of the initiator to our questions in the note on the report has not yet made that clear to us either. Although the initiator indicates that she followed the final opinion of the Remkes Commission by advocating a 50% nitrogen emission reduction in 2030, she ignores the fact that the feasibility of this target was not substantiated in the Remkes report and that the PBL could not even examine the feasibility in the absence of measures. This contrasts with the government's bill, on which the PBL considers that it is realistic in achieving the goals, in such a way that all sectors and entrepreneurs concerned can also take the corresponding measures. In addition, a general reduction in emissions, as proposed by Mrs Bromet, is also grosser than the cabinet proposal, because it looks with much more precision at precisely that deposition, the critical deposition values in the Natura 2000 areas and what you need to do to reduce nitrogen taxation there. In addition, the rapid pace of achievement of the targets in 2030 and 2040 is still high, while in the meantime the EU does not prescribe when the areas should be in good conservation condition. Mr. Chairman. The main difference between this bill and the cabinet bill is that the cabinet bill contains a comprehensive and detailed package of source measures, especially in order to legalize the bill. This was also necessary, the Council of State felt, in order to allow an exemption for construction activities. It is precisely for this reason that Mrs Bromet's legislative proposal makes the complete lack of corresponding measures so obvious that it will not only take a long time for nitrogen reduction to take place, because all these measures still have to be thought of with the provinces, but also because at the same time it proposes to introduce a broad threshold, the positive list, on which the Council of State stated that this cannot be lighthearted and must be well supported by measures. Then why is there no full understanding of these measures? As Mr Futselaar said, there must at least be an indication. For example, it could have started with an assessment of the measures already proposed by the cabinet. What can a tooth take, what can it take off, what else can it do? That's what we've been asking about. On the positive list: I really wonder whether we are doing the residents of future neighbourhoods a service with low-speed or car-free residential areas that can only be reached for emergency services, fire brigades, moving cars and the transport of people with disabilities. Then politics will also play, because then I think: it seems that road and motorway hatred is so great that it must be explicitly excluded, even if in 15 years' time traffic will be completely electric and thus emission-free. The complete lack of measures also means that we have no idea of the total cost of the package of measures. We still have to answer the question of whether the tax euros are still being spent in a somewhat cost-effective way. In this corona year, the billions are flying around our ears to keep the economy going. But that does not, in our view, justify spending EUR 5 billion on the purchase of farms, which include a large number of companies which can also reduce their emissions much more cheaply with new techniques and innovations. That is only what the initiator thinks is missing from the buying-in of agricultural holdings. In addition, the costs for other source measures and nature restoration will also be incurred. My question is therefore whether, unlike the answer 'it is a framework law and the provinces must take action', a little more financial clarity can be provided. As I mentioned, the provinces must continue to develop it. But they have indicated that they are opting for the cabinet bill, because that also seems more solid to them. What does the initiator think of that? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I can only say that it is a bill of great strides at home. 50% reduction in emissions in ten years sounds tough, but if you allow yourself to understand the impact of the cabinet's package of measures, you can easily conclude that the measures to be taken on the basis of this initiative proposal are so far-reaching that no sector can actually get them around in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u28	I would like to refer to Mr Harbers' qualification of'store' for the 50% reduction in ten years. But there has also been a committee led by a very tough VVD, who said that it is feasible? So why do you disqualify that target anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u29	Exactly because of what I said, and on that point I also disagree with Mr Remkes, and that is what we also exchanged in the debate in June. When you set such a tough goal, you have to give some insight into how that can be achieved. As early as June, when we had that debate here, a letter from the PBL was put on the table: we really have no idea how this could be done. We do not see in the final report of the Remkes Committee any beginning of measures to support that objective either. I often criticize the PBL enough, but here in the house we have the habit of at least basing ourselves on measures that can be passed on, and that was simply missing from the Remkes report and this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think that Mr Harbers here disqualifies the Remkes Committee. More than 150 recommendations have been made. It is indeed comprehensive, and these recommendations need to be translated into measures, but well, that was not the mandate of the Remkes Committee. Could it not have been better to take the advice of the Remkes Committee, which was broadly formulated, as a basis for both improving nature quality and stimulating economic development and detaching housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u31	No. As I said in the debate in June, I support many of the recommendations, but think that the pace of this recommendation is too high. We'll talk about that later on in the cabinet bill. You will always have to have a package of measures that can be implemented by everyone, because then you will have real nitrogen gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr Harbers believes that technological measures can reduce nitrogen emissions in a cheaper way. But the VVD cannot be blind to the fact that these technological measures do not work at all in practice? The VVD doesn't believe in fairy tales, does it? We have seen research report after research report which shows that these low-emission floors actually produce more emissions and that the farmers who invested in them have only got into deeper shit because they have made things worse. Exactly the same applies to combined air scrubbers. They are fraud-prone and produce much less reductions than on paper. Surely you can't keep believing in those technological measures when the practice is so different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u33	First of all, you can't believe that you've ever gotten the tens of billions together to force farms to buy up, so there must be smarter ways of reducing nitrogen emissions. That is why it is also good that the cabinet, in response to our questions, has decided that we should not only do it with today's techniques and innovations. There are so many things in development right now, so it is very good that subsidies are also available to further develop all kinds of new techniques and methods, which we will see in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr Harbers talks about the tens of billions that it would cost to clean up the sector, but the VVD must look at all the figures. The VVD likes to count with numbers. Then you're not just gonna look at the costs, you're gonna look at the benefits, right? Ecorys, on behalf of Greenpeace, has calculated how much billion the entire livestock farm costs our country, climate damage and health damage. It amounts to 6 to 7 billion a year. Don't you have to take those numbers with you? You must look not only at the costs of cleaning up, but also at the social costs of the entire livestock sector, the damage to nature, the environmental damage and the climate damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u35	That is why it is so good that nitrogen emissions are reduced. This indeed means environmental gains, health gains and so on. But if you put two amounts against each other... The forced buy-in of the average livestock farm costs EUR 3 to 5 million. There are techniques available to reduce emissions for €100,000 per livestock farm. That means that for the amount you lost for one buy-out, 30 to 50 livestock farms can be thoroughly sustainable. That sounds like a smart calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u36	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u37	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. That's the paper reality I was talking about. Those are the costs of those technological measures, but when you see that they don't work, it's wasted money. The emissions remain what they were and you can't get the money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u38	That is also why the subsidy scheme is very cleverly used on proven innovations and proven techniques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr. Harbers. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Bromet, who has taken the initiative to make a legislative proposal, an initiative which she has taken up the gauntlet that the Remkes Committee had laid down. The Remkes Committee has issued an extremely balanced opinion to improve both the quality of nature and to detach housing and to relaunch economic development. The urgency is great. On the other hand, a political reality has arisen. Mr Futselaar mentioned that. I'll keep my contribution compact. My key question to the initiator is: what additional measures are needed, to its liking, to detach housing in the short term and to start economic development? The condition for this is to increase the quality of nature. The PvdA sees a build-up of challenges: housing and economic projects that lie still. The Minister's reaction to the report on her bill shows that some 130 economic projects have been stalled. With me in the region, at Groningen Seaports, which is the Eemshaven in Delfzijl, there is an investment potential of about EUR 3 billion. That's quiet right now. What we also see in the short term is that there are a lot of nitrogen claims for infrastructure projects. There are seven major projects the Minister of IenW is working on. We've got the water supply, the dike reinforcement, and the DOD's making a claim. We have the problem of nitrogen detectors in the short term. They should actually be legalized, but that is legally very complicated. All these developments require nitrogen space. This means that in the short term you have to reduce the nitrogen deposition strongly. My question to the initiator is what package of measures it considers necessary in addition to its short-term legislative proposal. I consider the great value of the legislative proposal to be a good objective in the longer term. The extension of the natural area is also important. It is also part of the Remkes Committee's advice to create more connecting zones and more buffer space. It contains the great value and significance of this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also from the group of D66 compliments the proposers and the employees who have a lot of time in this. Writing and preparing an initiative law is really a big job. Thank you for that. We have asked many questions about this law. Not all of the question marks have been removed. We are thinking like D66 and GroenLinks in the same direction, but you can still discuss the way you get there. It is, of course, about protecting nature and making it possible for the economy to get back on its feet. Mr. Chairman. Too long has been lived on the puff of nature. Nature policy has experienced a period of ten years of neglect. I therefore understand the impatience of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that one and a half years after the judge's ruling, who locked the Netherlands because nature was not well protected, says: then we come up with a law ourselves. But in fact, there are two alternatives now, and of course you're going to weigh them. We question the social impact. The cost estimate, the feasibility and the impact on the current sector are actually not taken into account. The Council of State has already concluded that real choices are necessary. Only setting a framework is not enough. In this respect, the law of the cabinet goes a lot further. How does the initiator view this? It is estimated that 9 billion is needed for measures to be taken. How does GroenLinks get to this amount? My suspicion is that if you really want to achieve that ambition by 2030, a much larger amount is needed, but perhaps the petitioner can explain this. D66 agrees with the initiator that we need to invest in our nature and that money must be available to help a farmer who wants to switch and to help a farmer who wants to stop. We like to do this on the basis of realistic numbers. How does the petitioner see that? There are actually two things in the positive list. Of course it is good to have an exemption for construction. It's also in the cabinet proposal. As the SP group pointed out, it goes into the moment the law enters into force. This actually introduces a PAS-like element into the law you present. But then there's really a program missing. In this respect, the law of the cabinet is a lot more concrete and elaborate. I understand, of course, that as initiator, you cannot let everything go through, but can you perhaps now give an indication in your response of what it should look like and how the programme relates to the 50% reduction of emissions by 2030? The initiators also want to legally anchor how many additional hectares of nature need to be created. A total of 798 000 hectares in 2030. What nature does the initiators like to see emerge in the Netherlands? Does extensive farming also belong within the acres that you see before you? Where is this nature being housed? Who is managing this nature? Mr. Chairman. Before I finish, one more word about the provinces. For the D66 Group, this is a matter of concern, both in the law of the cabinet and, more importantly, in the framework law of GroenLinks. Because you can see that a number of provinces are really working on it quickly and effectively, because they understand that only economic space can be created if you protect nature better, if the intrinsic motivation to do so is not already there. How does the petitioner deal with the provinces that are not automatically involved in the implementation of the law? Mr. Chairman. These are D66's questions to this author. Thanks again for filing. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. Mr Van Otterloo has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The time that's been here seems a little too long. I don't need 15 minutes. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by joining the colleagues. I've had the honour to be the first to be in this new trade-K in 1994, so I know how difficult it is. I also know how difficult it is to have a good proposal and then a cabinet proposal that competes with it. I did make it back then, but the trajectory after that was very difficult. When I look at the proposal from GroenLinks, I feel a little bit, and I hope that is wrong, that we are in a new situation. 'Cause look at the period after that. We've got the detectors and the non-detectors. We've got the interims. The question is how to deal with these people. We have a 2030 target, but the legislative proposal does not provide any direct justification for achieving that target. Then you have to ask yourself whether this bill will not give us the same situation as with the PAS. You can say: then we'll be ten years further and we've pulled it off. But we are also doing all of this to ensure that all kinds of economic activities, starting with housing, but also the activities of all kinds of other sectors, are easily attracted. Because it's a lot more than that. It is also a question of much more than just agriculture. I think that's obvious, too. In the coastal provinces there is not much to be achieved with agriculture, but we will have to make sure that the enormous construction effort there is made in another way. This means that you also have to look at the port of Rotterdam and sailing routes. We have to look at that, too, this afternoon, so that we can find a place to hang off the coast for cruise ships and oil tankers and for shore flow, also in order to reduce the deposition here in this region in such a way that the Natura 2000 sites along the coastal strip are protected. Then I have to say that the positive list does not reassure us as to whether enough activities can be developed and decoupled in total with this legislative proposal. Others have already mentioned the role of the province. In principle, of course, we as one government must have a lot of confidence in the other government. But we also know that sometimes it may be necessary to act more directionally. I am curious to know exactly how the author refers to that. Then how are these measures taken? In general, there are few measures. There is, however, a preference for warm clean-up. We have them, too. But to use the common synonym for a ladder: there may be times when you need to escalate. And then the question is how the author sees this. And the question is how the petitioner looks at the buy-out scheme. We can imagine that this is not about theory, but really about proven techniques, that when someone is bought out in a particular place... As far as we are concerned, it is about buying out businesses as close as possible to Natura 2000 and certainly also about tackling the peak drivers in agriculture and beyond. We need to see if that can also mean that an existing company can be taken over in another place, where direct reduction of nitrogen deposition can take place by the conditions you impose on establishment there and taking over the whole. Finally, Mr President. For us, nature is also very important, especially for our natural experience and the diversity that needs to be there. But that also means that you see that in the whole of society. You should also see whether the years are right and whether the ambitions can be achieved in a good, careful way, but still a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bishop and then to Mrs Dik-Faber. Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I have to apologize to you and my colleagues for being late, but sometimes you're not completely in charge of your own phone and appointments. So I apologize, sincerely, also in the direction of the author. It's not out of nonchalance that I was late, but sometimes there's these force majeure situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u47	But no one noticed, so why bring that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u48	But I do like to confess my sins and my mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u49	Well, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u50	We shouldn't cover it up. The fact that I am standing here at least gives me the opportunity to express my appreciation for the efforts that have been made. We do not share the result of these efforts. That's what I'm gonna find out. Mrs Bromet will not be surprised either, but that does not mean that it is always a good thing that a colleague or a group, in addition to all kinds of controlling tasks being carried out, also gives substance to Parliament's legislative task. That in itself is worth appreciation, and a compliment. Here's to it. Mr. Chairman. When I read the proposal, GroenLinks wants a 50% reduction in nitrogen emissions by 2030. If you are walking around in this sector, which I have done and done intensively in recent years, then I agree with the author that the sector is incredibly capable. There are a lot of projects in which farmers are working together to see how emissions can be reduced, but my conclusion is also that the 50% reduction in 2030 is really too fast, far too high for that period. Indeed, you can then join the Remkes report, but also in that 50% is not the resultant of a thorough transfer of securities but an ambition. If we were to do that, many farms and farmers' families who are often behind it would simply not be able to do so. It is also unclear how the applicant intends to achieve this objective. The Council of State is right to point the finger at this. Perhaps the petitioner wants to achieve this mainly by expropriation of companies? I'm just asking for a hot potato. The initiator would like to halve the livestock. If she wants to achieve that through clean-up, that's gonna cost incredibly much money. Then why not opt for emission reduction measures on the farmyard? This results in much more nitrogen gain and provides a better starting position for the farmers who continue. The petitioner also wants to establish a minimum area for Nature Network The Netherlands in the law. Can she indicate what this means for the provinces and their finances? 'Cause then you ask a lot of questions. I'd say if you wanted to, it could be a policy goal, but it doesn't belong in a law. It depends too much on external factors. The answer to the question of whether you can realize that is not entirely in your control. Moreover, it does absolutely no justice to the possibilities for agricultural nature management and nature-inclusive agriculture. Mr. Chairman. A positive note is that the applicant's objective is to reduce national emissions, because then you will not suffer from disappointing foreign emissions. That gives a bit more guidance, but at the same time I note that this is farther away from achieving nature goals if you focus only on national emissions. I therefore ask the Minister to reflect on this. For the SGP, a clear guarantee of legalising companies that have acted in good faith but have been declared outlawed by the PAS ruling is very important. How does the proposer intend to resolve this so that these entrepreneurs can regain perspective? Following these questions, it can hardly be a shock to the applicant that the SGP will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the initiator of this initiative proposal, Mrs Bromet, and, of course, her staff. She took up the gauntlet of the PAS statement of the Council of State in 2019 and the opinions of the Remkes Committee, resulting in this initiative law that we are discussing today. Compliments for that. I know how much work it is myself. At the time, I tabled an initiative proposal with other political parties. This is from Mrs. Bromet. It's a huge job, so my thanks and respect for that. Mr. Chairman. That after decades of one-dimensional opting for only the economy and the neglect of ecology and the consequences for the intrinsic value of creation, the helm now has to change, is beyond the reach of the Christian Union. Not for nothing is this cabinet, this minister has started a change to circular agriculture. It is not for nothing that the Council of State, in its PAS statement, has collectively given us and our predecessors a firm touch. It is not for nothing that this cabinet invests more than ever in reducing nitrogen emissions and more than ever in restoring and expanding nature. And yet, let me be clear about this, and all this does not lead me to embrace and support this bill today. I'm a little hesitant about proposals for high targets without a package of measures. That is what we Dutch politicians are very good at, setting high goals. But ultimately, it comes down to a credible approach towards ambitious and, at the same time, feasible targets. As far as my group is concerned, this is where the problem lies. Colleagues Klaver and Bromet have chosen to reduce nitrogen emissions by up to 25% in 2025 and 50% in 2030 compared to 2018. That's in over four and nine years. My question in the written contribution to further underpinning the chosen reduction targets did not come up with a good answer. On my questions about feasibility, financial viability and the impact on sectors and entrepreneurs, the applicants actually did not go beyond referring back to the Remkes Committee. I understand that, but that committee also did not come up with a firm basis for the feasibility of the target of 50% reduction in 2030. That is why there are a number of questions about this. But I also see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u53	I would very much like to understand from the Christian Union how they look at that advice from the Remkes Committee. Because is that the objective that has been set out very clearly what we should go for? Or is it something noncommittal and can we put it next to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u54	I think there is a very big contradiction here, of the goal we are going for or something without commitment. No, the Remkes Committee is not without obligation. We have asked as a Chamber for this opinion, so it is an interesting opinion, which we have to take into account. I think we are going to talk about a bill this afternoon, in which we are also taking account of the job we have to do. The objectives set out are certainly not non-binding either. What I only miss in the Remkes Committee's report is a whole package of measures how we will get there. I do not support this 50% reduction in 2030. If you're going to think about that with each other and you're going to fill that out, that really doesn't turn out to be such a simple task. So you can really say "50% in 2030" and maybe it's really cool to embrace that and that sounds really cool, but I really want to go a little deeper here in politics. That is what I was called for as a representative of the people, so that in practice we can see how we are going to get there and how we are going to take the whole of society into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u55	Sure. That is also what we stand for. A year ago, the Remkes Committee said: 50% in 2030, that is what nature needs. Then you have to see how you achieve that. What has happened in the meantime is that various projects such as a new motorway or an airport are all going through and that is actually being said: yes, that advice from the Remkes Committee was not really substantiated, and that is why we are not going to make that very clear. I don't understand the logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u56	What I have said here today is that in recent years, and not only in recent years, but that really happened in decades, nature in our country was the underprivileged child. Indeed, motorways have been built and many houses have been built. Industry has increased in importance, SMEs have an important position in our country. And that economy is not wrong in itself. Fine, also good when people have a job; employment is important. But this has never gone hand in hand with the restoration of nature. We have really put economic growth first and not let that go hand in hand with investments in nature; exactly what the PAS has been shot at, and I understand that very well. So what we have to do now is invest hugely in nature and reduce nitrogen emissions. This is what this cabinet is working on. We have a vision of circular agriculture, we're going to invest billions in nature restoration, we're going to expand nature reserves and we're going to embrace the purpose of the Remkes Commission. We have also taken measures to ensure that it is a credible package that stands before the courts. And when you get to work like that, you'll come to pick up the target in 2035. I think it is a wonderful achievement that this is now what is also on the table today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u57	That achievement, that goal, in 2035 the debate is this afternoon. My question was whether the opinion of the Remkes Commission, 50% in 2030, should safeguard what nature needs as far as the Christian Union is concerned. I hear that's not the case. This afternoon we will talk about what the Christian Union proposal is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u58	I find this incredibly easy. Now parties who do not take over the purpose of the Remkes Committee, are thrown away as parties that do not care about nature. I really blame the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for that. We're all here to see how we can restore nature in our country. We put billions aside for that. Measures will be introduced for this purpose. Step by step, we're going to restore nature. Step by step, new nature reserves will be added. We are taking measures to reduce nitrogen emissions. Traffic's getting cleaner. The industry is taking action. We're asking for a transition from agriculture. We're gonna do that as a whole society with each other. If a report which lacks further justification is not embraced, then I think the Remkes Committee could have provided a basis for it. It is not that if we do not take over the Remkes Committee one-on-one, from a to z, we do not have a warm heart for nature. Far from it. I really want to throw that in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u59	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. I have a number of questions for the author. Can she and perhaps the Minister also address my questions on feasibility, financing and impact on entrepreneurs, including many family businesses? What package of measures does the applicant intend to take? What consequences will they have? Can the author also comment on the feasibility of the favourable conservation status of Natura 2000 sites in our country? Here along the coast, more than half of the deposition does not come from the Netherlands. The author reminds us of the need for this effort, which I share, but she is not aware of this repulsive fact. Of course, I realize that the Netherlands exports more nitrogen abroad than imports, and that imports do not relieve us of the duty to take better care of nature. But I do like to hear the whole story. My question as to whether the author is 50% nitrogen reduction or 50% livestock reduction in 2030 did not come up with a very strict answer. It is, of course, also a difficult issue. My group is aware that for a fully sustainable agriculture in our busy delta with its special natural values, it is inevitable that livestock will shrink in size over the next decade, but that is not an end in itself. What is, in any case, positive is that Mr Bromet's reply also highlights the responsibilities that we have to take in other sectors, for example in respect of polluting forms of mobility. My group also considers it very important that we address all sectors, that every part of our economy participates. With that positive note, I want to conclude my contribution to this period. I look forward to hearing Mrs Bromet's reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Then we're done with the first term. I understand there's a need for 20 minutes of suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u62	I give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now comes the most exciting part, of course. The minister says I did it for this. Perhaps it would be a good idea to give an introduction to why GroenLinks chose to make an initiative legislative proposal. That is because we have not been watching for a year and a half, but actually for decades, how nature in the Netherlands is getting worse and worse and economic activities are getting plenty of space and getting priority over what nature needs. That was also exactly why GroenLinks voted against the PAS when setting up the PAS, together with the Party for Animals. At that time we saw that this was not a solution at all. This is not a legal problem; this is an ecological problem. When the judge's ruling came in May 2019, there was joy at GroenLinks. We thought: now is the time, because the judge actually puts nature in the same place and now nature in the Netherlands will improve. And it got so quiet. All sorts of figures were contested by the farmers, there were emergency laws that didn't produce anything and we were just waiting and waiting. It was proposed by the CDA to set up a committee, the Remkes Committee. The Remkes Committee's opinion was not taken up either. We GroenLinks were just looking at it and thinking: what can we do from the responsibility we feel as a group to help this country, to solve this problem? We do not want housing to stop, so we want nature to improve and that it can simply be built. That gave us the idea of making a law of our own. 'Cause if the cabinet doesn't, we'll do it, we thought. It was a very nice process, I must say. We soon had parties on our side that we didn't often talk to, such as VNO-NCW and Building Netherlands: all parties that were also impatient were waiting for action from the government and couldn't stand to see nothing happen. Making a law is a long process, especially if you have to do it with a handful of employees. I would therefore like to thank them very much, because they have done a very good job and I am very proud of it. I could never have done it alone. But it also takes a long time, because you have to make a law, which then goes to the Council of State and then you react again. At the time when we were making the law, we also tabled motions. For example, we tabled a motion because we felt that a reduction target for nitrogen should be legally established. That motion was put to the vote in the spring. The coalition parties voted against it. So there has been a long delay from the cabinet and the coalition. There was unwillingness to work with legally defined targets, because only targets could be discussed. In this respect, it is a gain that the cabinet has also made a law in which we now have a legal anchoring of the nitrogen emissions that have to go down. The cabinet then opted for the deposition of nitrogen. But the law of GroenLinks is much more ambitious and that is what we stand for. We think that's necessary, too. That brings me to the question. Many groups have asked for the feasibility and affordability of this law. We have already wasted EUR 1.5 billion on shutting down the Netherlands over the last year and a half, according to VNO-NCW calculations. There are enormous consequences, which we are still bearing, of the establishment of the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. I find it rather embarrassing that the groups that have agreed in the past to the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen do not put their hands in their own bosom and say: 'What an incredible mess we have caused here in the Netherlands. What a terrible thing that costs so much money and that the economy has come to a standstill." They then accuse a political group which puts forward a solution that it would be a non-feasible and non-affordable proposal. Feasibility has everything to do with how much money you need for particular problem. How much legislation, how much coercion do you want to allow to get something done? GroenLinks has therefore reserved the double budget for resolving this natural crisis in relation to the cabinet. Twice as much money makes a lot more feasible. GroenLinks does not shy away from the expropriation of farms if it is in the interests of a nature reserve. If you just tambourize that everything has to be voluntary, it is difficult to get those nitrogen emissions down by 2030. We didn't set up an advisory college for nothing either. It is true that our legal texts were actually ready before the last opinion of the Remkes Committee came. We were surprised that the ambition we had expressed on the basis of discussions with everyone in the country who had anything to say about it was in line with what the Remkes Committee said. It has also really surprised us that we have made our law in consultation with all the social partners who are there, while the cabinet has been primarily concerned with getting a majority for the proposals, and is therefore primarily internally oriented rather than towards society. Is our law feasible and affordable? Yes, he is. You can just set that goal as a government if you have the courage, if you have the guts, if you want to solve a problem. If all the lawyers say that nitrogen emissions should be halved by 2030, we are simply going to ensure that this is feasible and affordable. Even for the record: Halving nitrogen emissions in 2030 means that in 2040 the natural areas are only below critical deposition values, which is a technical number about nitrogen deposition.................................................................................................................................................. So we are talking about a solution from GroenLinks that will lead to good conservation of nature in 30 years' time. If you know that we've been watching for years how year after year birds disappear and plant species disappear, then that's not so ambitious at all, but that's super-realistic. Then why did we opt for a framework law? That is actually a bit by analogy with the Climate Law, because we also set a goal in the Climate Law. The lawyers all agree that the only way to resolve the nitrogen crisis is to legally establish that you want to achieve a certain goal and so it is also a task for future Cabinets to work on it. GroenLinks set that target at 50% by 2030. Of course, this includes measures. A lot of groups have asked me why there are no measures in the law. That is precisely because it is a framework law. We regulate in the law that there will be a budget and a title for a minister to come up with measures. That's what a minister is for. We have a cabinet for that, too. We have a minister to govern the country and to come up with measures to achieve what we as a Chamber set as a framework. That is exactly what we wanted to do here. We write in the explanatory statement that we think it is inevitable that the livestock will halve. Now there are also groups who have asked whether this is an end in itself. No, that's not an end in itself. That is because we think it is necessary for nature areas because we do not believe that nitrogen emissions can only be reduced by technical measures and because we think that you should also be honest with the farmers involved. Technological measures have been mentioned for many years. And for many years, also in the context of the PAS, it has not been possible to reduce nitrogen emissions sufficiently. Those measures can therefore involve anything. By the way, I hear a lot of groups focusing on livestock farming, but our law is much wider than that. Our law says that all sectors have to halve in nitrogen emissions, so also when it comes to housing projects in North Holland. I know that maritime transport is responsible for most of the nitrogen emissions and not the farmers. That is precisely why we have also given the provinces in our law the opportunity to solve this problem. In every nature reserve in the Netherlands the conditions are different, the nitrogen sources are different, and therefore other measures need to be taken to achieve good nature reserves. GroenLinks has never been a very strong supporter of the decentralisation of nature policy, but it is a fact that the provinces are now responsible for nature policy. And I've really been surprised at the distrust that speaks out of a lot of bringing colleagues here to their provincial representatives. We have a division of tasks in the Netherlands, where nature is invested in the provinces. In it we have elected members of the States and delegates. The CDA is located in a lot of provinces, I hear from the Party for Animals; GroenLinks meanwhile also. It is precisely at these levels that we are very well able to control nitrogen emissions. At least I hope so. Of course there is still a role for the Empire and we also appoint it in the law. The Minister always has a title to intervene if provinces fail to comply with their commitments. We agree with provinces in our law: this is your mission to achieve the goal together in 2030. That is something that provinces need to work on, and they need to come up with a package of measures that will help with that. A good example of this is the province of Gelderland. You can see it's gonna work there already. That province has had a whole study done on which companies in Gelderland are peak taxers. Gelderland is now working to buy up these companies, perhaps to prescribe technical measures or at least to ensure that nitrogen emissions go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u64	Let me ask you something. Mrs Bromet says: "Why this distrust of the provinces? They're supposed to just do it, aren't they?" But Mrs Bromet also knows that GroenLinks was on the Brabant college board, for example, but that the CDA blew up the coalition when farmers protested against the nitrogen measures. That also happens in the province and that of course nourishes a bit of suspicion. Are those provinces going to do what they have to do, or are they going to postpone it indefinitely? I think that the mistrust is therefore a little justified. Can Mrs. Bromet reflect on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u65	So we have a minister for that. The Minister is responsible for European and international agreements on nature policy, and the Minister must therefore also follow the provinces very critically to see if they are doing what we have all agreed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u66	Of course it is. The province needs to be controlled. But the moment a county board says "we don't" or even blows up a county board, you're empty-handed anyway. Worst case scenario, you'll have years of delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u67	I would also like GroenLinks to have half of the seats in all provinces and to be able to determine how the policy is designed. The beauty of the nitrogen problem is that everything comes to a standstill when you don't deliver. We saw that with the PAS. The fact that we are talking about extra billions for nature has nothing to do with the fact that there is so much love for nature among many groups. That has to do with the economy coming to a standstill. For green parties, such as the Party for Animals and GroenLinks, it is a huge opportunity to get what we have wanted for decades. The same applies to the provinces. I think that awareness has penetrated the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr. Chairman. Questions have also been asked about the expansion of nature that GroenLinks advocates. When we talk about the two laws now before us, it sometimes seems as if it is only a difference in the ambition of percentage and year. But our law is about more; our law is also about extension of nature. That's what all the experts we've consulted have said: you need a legal definition of the goal of reducing nitrogen emissions, but you also need to make nature better in quality and much more robust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u70	I thought there was going to be some more about the provinces, but Mrs Bromet is moving on. I asked a question about the provinces and I would like to come back to that. Moreover, I find the argument rather vicious and offensive and not binding. That's what I'd like to add. If you want to convince my group to vote in favour of this law, it has to be in a different tone. Anyway, that aside. I asked about the provinces. You get different regulations with this law everywhere. I have given examples of this. You'll just be that farmer who's in such a border area of multiple municipalities and provinces. Then how does Mrs Bromet deal with that in her law? Because she wants to leave all responsibility with the provinces and she does not want something of central control, which is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u71	Of course, there are always cross-border problems in the provinces. It has not been said that the Empire must always intervene in this. I think that provinces are perfectly capable of consulting each other on this issue. When it comes to connection and if we want more direction from the Empire, I ask the CDA the following. Maybe it's a good idea to talk about the recent development of nature policy, because then you have everything in one hand and as a Empire you can put nature in good condition without needing the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u72	In the law that the minister has brought to the Chamber, you see the environmental values. I have put the following question in writing and also orally, but I am not getting an answer. Does GroenLinks honestly believe that local authorities and provinces should be able to adapt their environmental values independently? If that's the case, then you really get a wild west of unsubstantiated opinions in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u73	The difference between Mr Geurts and me is that I take the nature reserve as a starting point and Mr Geurts the entrepreneur. If you look from the point of view of the nature reserve, which can be located in different provinces, you will know at some point what it takes to put that nature reserve back in a good condition. You then have to look together as provinces to see what it takes to get it done. This sometimes means that provinces need to consult on a company that is located in two provinces. They are now also jointly responsible for the nature reserve in those provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u74	Finally, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u75	I take it as a compliment that I, as a representative of the people, see what it means to people. Yes, we have to take care of our nature, but in the end we have to see what this means to our people in society and what's going to happen to them all. I just miss that completely at GroenLinks and see that picture of the higher goals in the very short term. You have no idea what that means to the people who have to do it in the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u76	I mentioned the PAS and the enormous, profound consequences that have and will have for entrepreneurs. That's cleaning up the damage caused by the CDA in the past. This concerns space that has been given to entrepreneurs to grow, which was not really possible at all. Nature is also very important to people. GroenLinks stands up for the people, the nature and the animals that live there. I think it is ultimately in the interests of every human being when nature is in good condition in the Netherlands. Moreover, we have also agreed internationally. I was still working on the extension of nature, because there were also questions about where GroenLinks wants to expand nature. For this we have taken back on the previously uncontested plans to build an ecological main structure in the Netherlands. We were also internationally famous for this. At some point, led by a CDA executive, it was decided to put the knife in there. We still have a lot of pain from that. We thought: this is a good time to bring out the main ecological structure again, also because a lot of studies have been carried out and we know which areas to look for. Perhaps a new aspect in relation to the old main ecological structure is the role that farmers can play in this. GroenLinks is open to that, too. We know that a lot of nature reserves in the Netherlands are made up of agricultural nature. Farmers can very well be given a role in this, especially if they have to reduce in other areas. For GroenLinks, therefore, it is not clear that the new nature must necessarily be managed by land managers. That may also be farmers who are paid for the green and blue services they provide. The interests of nature are at the forefront and not the farmer's income. There were also many questions about the positive list and the motivation of GroenLinks to record a positive list at all. We have also been asked why these projects are on the positive list and not all kinds of other projects. That question was also asked by the Council of State. We've better substantiated that later. For this positive list, we have one criterion, namely whether or not these projects are consistent nitrogen emissions in the long term. A lot of projects don't. The homes we build in the Netherlands today do not cause nitrogen emissions from heating, because they are energy-neutral. Windmills cost nitrogen from the trucks that the windmills have to supply, but when they turn, the coal plants can close and the windmills can take over the energy supply. It also applies to dike reinforcements. A dike doesn't emit nitrogen. You need nitrogen emissions to build a dike, but you don't need it consistently. This has been the criterion for us to include these projects: do they emit nitrogen in the long term or not? That does mean you're in a bit of a mess at first, too. That was a question that a few groups have asked: are you not going to create some kind of PAS system by giving space to these projects on the positive list? But the difference with the PAS is that this law sets a goal, a legally defined goal, for 2030. There are intermediate targets, so it's about progress towards that goal. However, it may well be that this positive list will initially produce a little more nitrogen emissions, which you will have to compensate for later, on the road to 2030. That's what the law says. So it's not similar to the PAS. In the PAS an advance was made on measures you didn't know if they would lead to anything. Then, I guess, I did discuss most of the topics. I will go through the various groups for a moment to see if there were any specific questions. The Party for Animals asks: how many animals should there be less in the Netherlands to bring nature into good condition? They themselves think it's 75%. They ask us whether it is a taboo to lay down in the law how much reduction in livestock there is to be. No, that's not a taboo for GroenLinks. We regret, however, that it is a taboo for the majority in the Chamber to talk about the reduction of livestock in substantial parts. We have therefore chosen to do so, which we also considered to be appropriate to the nature of the framework law, to say that nitrogen emissions will halve in each sector, including in the agricultural sector. We do not believe that a halving of nitrogen emissions is feasible without reduction. So we didn't include it, but it's not taboo. The CDA mentioned the termination of infrastructure. Mr Geurts is afraid that he would no longer be able to drive home. That's a misunderstanding. That is reassuring for Mr Geurts. He also asked why we take the period 2014-2017 as a reference. That is by analogy with the Remkes Committee, which talks about nitrogen emissions compared to 2018. That is what we have taken over. The SP also asks for an appropriate package. We believe that this package is really the responsibility of the Minister in cooperation with the provinces. It's just a different system than the law of the cabinet chooses. I think I've already answered that. When it comes to an indication of the measures that GroenLinks would like to take to reduce nitrogen emissions, it is certainly not the construction of an airport in Lelystad with the extracted nitrogen space, or the construction of seven new motorways. At least we would not want to start with that. But it is also, of course, about reducing nitrogen emissions. The VVD insists on more financial clarity. I have just indicated that we have reserved the government's double budget for all measures. We've got a tough target. That's why we doubled the budget. I find it striking that the VVD has a very great faith in techniques that still have to be invented. That does not seem realistic at all to me. Of course there will be new techniques, but to anticipate them already, I do not think that is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u77	I just want to know what happens in practice if we introduce this law. Suppose the House votes for this on Tuesday and somewhere in January or so the proposal comes through the Senate and it is in force. Then that package must be made. That will therefore take at least a few months and perhaps longer if it gets complicated. The exemptions go straight into the law. But isn't there a potential problem if you already grant exemptions, but haven't actually started winning the nitrogen space? Aren't you just running a legal risk there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u78	That question is above these two debates all day long. In what way will lawyers judge this? We cannot answer that. We can only talk to lawyers who have a great deal of understanding about it, and that is what GroenLinks has done. As I said, we did. They did not comment on this, nor did the Council of State. But the final judgment will be delivered to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u80	The PvdA had a question about the PAS detectors. It is, of course, very sad that there are a lot of farms that have acted under all laws and regulations in the past, in the times of the PAS, and that are now in the business of an illegal company. Did we miss something to settle this in this law? I don't think so. This law regulates the future: how do we deal with nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands from now on, with the improvement of nature and with the development of housing? The PAS detectors are about the past, about the damage caused by the setting of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. That problem will certainly have to be solved, which will certainly cost nitrogen space, but that is currently separate from our own initiative law. I think I have already given D66 an answer to the question of whether extensive agriculture could be part of the expansion of nature. The answer to that is yes. How do we deal with non-cooperative provinces? The Minister has a title to intervene with provinces that do not cooperate in all kinds of fields. We have also secured him in the law in the same way as the other moments of intervention of the minister or cabinet in provinces. So yes, but the Minister must do so, and the Minister must also dare. 50PLUS asked whether peak loaders could also move to other companies and then start over there. That's definitely an option. If a province chooses to close a certain company because they have a disproportionately large impact on the natural values in an area, GroenLinks is okay with a farmer starting again somewhere. But they will have to have the environmental permits in order and purchase those rights. Because if you are bought up by the government and those rights are taken, you can of course start over, but then you have to invest in them again. The number of animals is not intended to increase; the number of animals is intended to decrease. The SGP says that the sector is failing and asks why no emission reduction measures can be taken. Yeah, they can be taken. That is actually the counter-answer to the Animal Party, which asks why our law does not state that livestock should be reduced. We have said that there must be a 50% reduction, and we do not care whether it is with emission reduction measures or with the reduction of livestock. We believe that a reduction in livestock should be included, but there is no ban on emission reduction measures, should that be a misunderstanding. Whether it is affordable depends on how much money we make available for it. That's just totally up to the Chamber itself. The Christian Union is talking about the collective tap on the finger. I actually like the fact that the Christian Union is bringing this up, because it is the only party that looks back a bit on the consequences of the decisions taken here on the Programmed Approach Nitrogen. I have heard this very little from the parties that are now blowing quite high off the tower over nitrogen. I will also mention this in the next debate. They actually did not reflect on what happened to the Netherlands by agreeing to the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. It has been a collective tap on the fingers of the Chamber and we must prevent this from happening again. Nature has been a child that has been put at risk all these years and we hope that this law does not go on like this. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you. So it can also be done this way. Very good! We'll just wait a minute...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u82	I just want to say one more thing. I myself, as a Member of Parliament, believe that the directors are always talking for a very long time, so I thought: let me set a good example myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u83	That's why I'm saying it. I think it is a very good example! That's fine. Thank you. We'll wait a minute. I'm saying not all rulers. I have a list. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid to say anything anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u85	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u86	However, I should like to begin by congratulating the authors of the initiative proposal. It's been memorized a number of times here. It's a top performance. There's a lot of work in it, including the employees. This is the moment when you have to pay attention to that and enjoy it, because it is an achievement. Two questions have been asked to me. Firstly, by Mr Bishop. He asked: why did the cabinet opt for deposition when this bill opts for emission? The Cabinet considers that the Birds and Habitats Directives concern the state of conservation of nature. That's what we're focusing on. So you also need to know what the state of nature is. You measure that by looking at the deposition of nitrogen on nature. The cabinet's bill is based on the Natura 2000 sites. You do that by reducing emissions, but in the end you have to see what that does for those natural areas. That's why the cabinet is focusing on that. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the feasibility and affordability of this bill in the eyes of the cabinet. That is quite a difficult question, because it has been recalled a number of times already, it is a framework law and there are no further measures under it. It is therefore difficult or impossible for us to assess what is feasible and affordable if you do not know what measures to take. Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether it is for me to give an opinion or an assessment from the cabinet on this bill or whether it should be done in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u87	I think we can do that now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u88	We're about to deal with a bill from the cabinet. That is the legislative proposal that we believe we can tackle the problem of nitrogen. Because there are still a lot of questions left in this bill, among other things what this means in practice and how you are going to achieve the goals, I advise against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u89	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. We face an incredible challenge to restore and strengthen our nature in the Netherlands. GroenLinks has submitted a bill and we have asked questions. I am very pleased with how the author has answered those questions. I look forward to voting for this bill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u91	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the initiator for answering the questions. I told you in the first term that we are going to support this bill. That wasn't changed by the answer. I would like to make a few more comments. It has been remembered a few times, also by other members: nature is bad. We have lost 85% of the original biodiversity in the Netherlands. Recently, the hare and rabbit were added to the red list of endangered species. These are characteristic species for the Netherlands. We can't afford to lose it. So we really have to do everything we can to reverse policy and ensure that nature is moving forward and not back up. One of the problems is nitrogen emissions. That is not the only problem; that too has been mentioned more often. The artificial reduction of groundwater levels for agriculture, the use of poisons and the fragmentation of nature reserves are all involved. But if we can significantly reduce nitrogen emissions, we have taken a very important first step towards restoring nature. GroenLinks recognizes that too. I would like to stress once again that the reduction of nitrogen is a first step, but not the only one. This afternoon we will talk about the cabinet bill. That debate will, by the way, be carried out by Mr Ouwehand. For the moment, we prefer this bill, but of course we are waiting for this afternoon's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the initiator. On the way she lost one, I realized, because Mr Klaver is not here. Anyway, there's gonna be a reason. Thanks to the initiator and her staff for the many work. Mr. Chairman. There's one thing I need to get off my chest. I heard Mrs Bromet say that GroenLinks welcomes the statement of the Council of State. Mrs Bromet knows that at that moment we were in a meeting together and I pulled out white. She also referred to that in a Trouw interview. I will also confirm that it was, because I knew what impact that would have on people. I find joy in a statement that makes companies legally illegal in one go while they were legal... That means something to people, and that is very dear to me. I would like to say to Mrs Bromet that this really is a wake-up call. Mr. Chairman. Another point. To say that it is feasible and affordable a hundred times does not mean that it is. I missed the backup. I am glad that the destruction of the infrastructure is not the intention, but it is. So I still have a little bit of hesitation in that. In any case, I will report to my group on the course of this debate. We shall see what the group meeting will bring. You will see the result on Tuesday at the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u95	I would like to stress once again that it was the CDA that caused this misery at the time, together with the PvdA. The CDA is the archdad of the PAS. That's what all the problems have come up with. That was an illegal situation. You could actually feel that on your clogs, just to stay in the good metaphor, when this unholy idea was born. So I think this is really crocodile tears, because the CDA has created this difficult situation. In the end, it is the CDA that has made sure that these farmers really get into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u96	I would like to thank Mr Wassenberg for his time in political parties. He also forgets to compliment the PvdA Group, because it was an amendment by the PvdA and the CDA. However, Mr Wassenberg is always somewhat selective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u97	I did mention the PvdA. Perhaps Mr Geurts is a little deaf in East India, but I mentioned the PvdA as one of those who caused the problems, along with the CDA. I would like to emphasise that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u98	Well, if the Party for Animals comes to power, we'll have other problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u99	I object to Mr Geurts' remark that the decision of the Council of State has made a lot of companies illegal. The Council of State has established that we as a government have acted illegally, that we have acted in violation of the law. I think we should be careful of our institutions. The Council of State is reviewing the law and so it belongs in this country. That is the separation of powers. I would therefore be grateful if Mr Geurts would show a little more respect to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u100	This is a frame that is now being laid on me. I think I explained very clearly that the result of the ruling was that companies that were legal became legally illegal. I didn't lie to you about that. And with that, I'm not judging that statement at all, but that was just standing practice because of the ruling. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u101	But the companies didn't become illegal because of the verdict. That didn't make them illegal. The Council of State has established that they were illegal and that, as a government, as licence providers, we apparently had not done our job properly. I would like to emphasise that nuance. I think we should be careful of our institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u102	I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u103	I too am a bit surprised by this text. Does the CDA simply acknowledge that the PAS is the problem and not the ruling of the Council of State? So if Mr. Geurts pulled out white, was that because he realized that PAS was the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u104	Of course it's in the PAS. That's very clear. In itself, PAS legislation was not so much the problem. Only the agreements made in it, that there are 10 kilotons... You are not looking at me anymore and you are turning your eyes away, but the core of the legislation was not wrong in itself. However, the agreements that were subsequently made have not been complied with. That's where the big crux is. There was supposed to be 10 kilotons brought in and that didn't happen. That's where the crux is. So if someone went into legal history just as well, he'd notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u105	In my view, the Council of State's statement was indeed that the PAS instrument as it was rigged was the problem. I am glad that Mr Geurts acknowledges that, and then we are going to talk about it this afternoon if we do not repeat that problem again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u106	Well, at least that's a profit warning I'm getting from Mrs Kröger this afternoon, but I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u107	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I now turn to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mrs Bromet for answering the questions. I have one last comment and one final question. Others have already said something about the tone and the outstretched hand: can you get support for a bill somewhere? I am also not sure whether Mrs Bromet intended to bring me with her. I don't think so. But I did ask for attention to be given to the question of what causes you in the country. The example I gave about the residential areas was really more than anecdotal, because it is a serious answer given in the note on the report. I also really think that if you create residential areas that way, we'll just end up getting very little work done for the people who have to live there. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question I have about the budget. Now, for the first time, we have clarity. Mrs Bromet says she opts for a doubling of the budget. This is, in general, something which, of course, does not go very well in the process of own-initiative legislation. It is said that we are therefore allocating EUR 12 billion. The cabinet does 6 billion, so a start of coverage would be nice. At the beginning of this year, the cabinet sought cover for all the corona measures and, for example, the Urgenda measures. It said then: then we'll also do 680 million from the SDE reserve in the treasury. That immediately led to criticism by GroenLinks. So any beginning of how you finance something like that in the next ten years would be good. But let me ask the question not only to Mrs Bromet but also to the cabinet. Does the Minister consider it realistic today that a sum of EUR 12 billion can be included in the budget over the next ten years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you, Mr. Harbers. Then I will go to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is in favour of this law. This law is most appropriate to the opinion issued by the Remkes Committee. A number of groups object that it is a framework law that has not been completed, but I thought the comparison with the Climate Law was correct. It should be the case that we are setting up a whole governance. The Climate Act shows that we have a cycle in which an annual assessment is made, which also fits well with the European system. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. This law actually deserves a better fate than he's gonna get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u111	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the author for answering the questions. It was not in every way an exciting story for one's own law, but also an assessment of the role of others. I'll leave that to the petitioner. Having heard the answers, I still have three major problems. The first is the PAS-like element. Of course it's a lot better than the PAS, but there's a PAS-like element in it, namely that you're going to spend nitrogen space before you've guaranteed in a program that you're going to take out that nitrogen space. This is better dealt with in the cabinet's proposal. The second point that gives some confusion at D66 is about the role of the provinces. The complainant actually said two things in her contribution. The proposal states that the provinces have a major role to play in achieving these goals, without any clear indication of how to do so. They're left to their own devices. At the same time, I can hear Mrs Bromet say that we should actually update the whole of nature policy. I can see some light in there anyway. Finally, Mr President. I understand that it is difficult to make the programme, but if the author says that the law was actually finished when the Remkes Committee came up with its proposal, then you could have expected that the time left after that would have been used to think with all those institutions, with which you were right to work, about the contours of a programme to actually achieve this beautiful ambition that shares D66. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u113	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mrs Bromet. I understand the somewhat difficult fate that political reality sometimes causes you to do a lot of work and reap little fruit. But let it be a consolation that it has contributed to the discussion and the shaping of thought. I agree with the person who was talking about the PAS. It is not true that the PAS itself was essentially the problem, but rather the failure to implement it. That is, of course, what is still a bit above the market here. That is the fate that you cannot change, because you do not have all those instruments available and depend on how much money the government spends on achieving the whole. In that respect, the 12 billion is still somewhat unclear. This afternoon we will discuss the reason why we have chosen to participate. It is a matter of concrete measures. I am glad to hear that it is not just about agriculture, because that is too limited a look at nitrogen. We chose nitrogen deposition instead of emission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Can Mrs. Bromet respond directly? That's the case. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Bromet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to all the groups for their input today. I had a great time doing it. It's the crown of the hard work you're doing in the back rooms at night. I welcome the support of the Party for Animals and the Labour Party for the bill. I would like to say to the CDA why GroenLinks was pleased with the ruling of the Council of State. Perhaps the CDA can then move in the frustration that we of GroenLinks have felt all these years, every time we read a note in the newspaper that nature is getting worse again. We felt, in the Council of State's statement, that the weaker interest, the green interest, was finally given the natural interest it deserved. That hasn't been on the table for all these years. Honestly, I still find what's in front of me very worrying. And when it comes to the non-binding tone I would use: I have tried to make my heart speak with passion for nature. That is what some people think of as an attack on political groups or whatever, but it is not. It is true that GroenLinks looks at what happens to nature in the Netherlands and in the world. That's what we'd fight for dead. Actually, that's the way it is. The VVD has serious objections to residential areas without parking spaces. I would like to say one thing about that, also fed from my experience as an alderman. We really want to build houses. GroenLinks really wants to build these homes in the inner city. But if you keep the parking standards that apply now, this means you can build a lot less houses. If every house also needs two parking spaces, you can just build a lot less homes. GroenLinks opts for homes instead of parking spaces. We therefore also believe that public transport should be given an enormous boost in terms of quality and capacity in order to be able to transport people. We have said enough about funding in the first period, I think. D66 asks about the PAS-like elements that would be in the law. I thought I had already made it clear in the first term that the legal anchoring of the ultimate goal ensures that it is not comparable to the PAS. I would also like to take a short trip to the proposal before us this afternoon. It is true that all kinds of measures are being proposed, but it is also not at all certain whether these measures will have their effects. I would like to mention, for example, the feed measure that has been under attack this summer, but which is again included in the list of nitrogen reducing measures. Even if you make a list or a program, it is not at all said that it will lead to nitrogen reduction. GroenLinks does not leave provinces to their fate. We know that it is the reality that the provinces are now about nature. That's what we've got our bill on. If there is a majority later to centralise nature policy back to the Empire, GroenLinks would very much like to think about it. We see great advantages in that. But you also have to accept reality sometimes, and that is that nature policy is now in the provinces. Mr. Chairman. Was asked if I could have made a program after the Remkes Committee came up with her report? I could have done that, but I'm a MP and not a minister. It is not for nothing that we have a division of tasks, in which the Members of Parliament set the framework and the ministers make the policy. I don't have a ministry either. I have these three employees. I would like to mention them all by name, because they have done a lot of work. Anneke Rooth is my regular agricultural employee. Yorian Bordes took care of the nitrogen file. And this is our intern Sanne Liefers, who has the day of her life today, I think. And then there's one more absentee: Elisabeth Hengeveld. She's here, but unfortunately she can't be here. She's done a lot of work. I would also like to thank the Minister for her presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs Bromet. There will be a few more minutes of cleaning and then the Minister can say something. It takes some getting used to, indeed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr. Chairman. One more question has been put to me by Mr Harbers. He asked if that 12 billion is fitable. It is not fit for the budget now. I also endorse Mr Van Otterloo's comment. The bill has really contributed to the shaping of thought. That, I think, is a very important contribution to this debate, so I would like to congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u119	Thank you. Before I suspend, I would like to thank Mrs Bromet incredibly for her own-initiative proposal. A number of colleagues have already said: it is incredibly complicated and difficult to make an initiative legislative proposal with little support, in addition to ordinary Chamber work. I think it's very handsome. I hear you've been working on it for about a year and a half. I also filed a bill once. It took me 11 years, Mr. De Groot. Eventually, we did it. I want to thank you so much for that. I would also like to thank the staff of the GroenLinks group, Anneke Rooth, Yorian Bordes and Sanne Liefers, for their support. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister for her advice to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-10-tweedekamer-4.u120	For now, I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour. Next week, we're going to vote on the bill. Mrs Bromet, I think I'll see you across the street again, as a Member of Parliament, in half an hour. Thank you.
