ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u1	I'm reopening the House of Representatives meeting. Welcome, everyone. The next item is the Act of Recognition of Dutch Sign Language. I am proud that the interpreter can be tracked via the livestream.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u2	So much for my sign language with my words. The rest I like to leave to the professionals who are good at sign language. Welcome to the initiators: Mrs Kuiken, Mrs Van Eijs and Mrs Dik-Faber. I also welcome, of course, the people in the public gallery. Also a word of welcome to the representatives of the deaf community and the people in the chair, Mrs Corrie Tijsseling and Mrs Eva Westerhoff. Two interpreters are also present: Maya de Wit and Yvonne Jobse. You're very welcome. Finally, I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who, in this legal process, acts as an advisor to the Chamber, and Mr Roza, a member of the Christian Union. We are dealing today with the first term of office. As usual, the continuation of the legal treatment is planned in good consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u3	I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the introduction of sign language as well. I'm afraid I'm not gonna do that. Today, the first day after the summer recess, we start debating again. It is good that we are starting this parliamentary season with an initiative law of MPs. That's always a special moment. I would like to express my appreciation for the work of the three colleagues Kuiken, Dik-Faber and Van Eijs and also their staff. It is not easy to find room for an initiative law in addition to the regular Chamber work, that is to say. It is good to see that, in addition to their controlling work, several colleagues also take up the co-legislative work. I myself have had the opportunity to draw up some own-initiative laws, and I know from my own experience what comes into play for the initiators and for their support. Compliments, then. Mr. Chairman. We all know how complicated it is when you don't speak someone else's language. We have all experienced this, on holiday or on a trip in another country. In such a case, we do our best to communicate. Often we use a language that we understand or use gestures and other non-verbal communication. People who emigrate often also experience how difficult it is to communicate in the country of residence. Signs helped me when I was 12 years old suddenly came to the Netherlands and couldn't communicate with my environment. You may hear something, but you really don't understand. You're in danger of being excluded quickly and becoming isolated. Today we are talking about a group of people for whom language problems are not only temporary but unfortunately often permanent. People who can't hear or can't hear. Unfortunately, they often have to feel left out because they can participate much more difficultly in communication in society. GroenLinks stands for an inclusive society. My group welcomes this initiative because the recognition of sign language deaf people can also participate more in our society. Sign language is essential for the emancipation of people who are limited or cannot hear. Mr. Chairman. We've come a long way. For 30 years, deaf and hearing impaired have been fighting for recognition of their language and culture. For a long time, from 1880 to 1980, the use of sign language in the Netherlands has been banned almost everywhere in education. Similarly, the use of gestures in education and education was not recommended. For many older deaf people this is therefore an extra emotional moment. They grew up in a time when gestures were sometimes even fought with corporal punishment. We cannot imagine that now, but that is where we come from. There has been a difficult process of emancipation. The fact that deaf people live in the Netherlands has become increasingly visible in recent decades. We no longer look up from deaf people in the media or sign languages in TV shows or series. It's even fashionable to teach hearing newborns baby gestures. And the HBO course for sign interpreter is a popular education since the Netherlands has become acquainted with the gesture interpreter Irma Sluis at the press conferences of the cabinet about the corona crisis. We are also shocked that it was not self-evident in crisis situations to use a gesture interpreter. Fortunately, at the suggestion of my colleague Lisa Westerveld, it is now settled that the presence of a sign interpreter in news broadcasts is better guaranteed. Fortunately, the presence of interpreters is getting better and better. Mr. Chairman. The high visibility has undoubtedly also contributed to acceptance. At the same time acceptance is also a prerequisite for the emancipation of deaf and hearing impaired people. But we're not there yet. I agree with the authors of this initiative law that this initiative will further the recognition, acceptance and emancipation of deaf and hearing impaired people in our society. However, there are some concerns in my group regarding regular education and the use of sign-interpreting. For example, despite sufficient capacity, there appears to be a great deal of unfamiliarity in education in this area. In addition, we get signals that deaf children are not always accepted in mainstream education. Can the proposers comment on this? Does this law always ensure that an appropriate solution is sought for people communicating in sign language? What measures are needed to ensure that this law is actually improved? And then, Mr. Chairman, I have a few more questions for the Minister. How does it see the role of municipalities, provinces and, for example, security regions in the use of sign-interpreting? Is the Minister prepared to include the issue of education in the development of her plans and to raise awareness of sign-interpreting? Another point of attention is the elections. A lot of information about the elections goes through debates. However, these debates cannot be followed by deaf people. I would ask the Minister to take this into account in drawing up her plans. This is an important point for my group, because our elections must also be inclusive for all citizens. Can she and her colleague for Media, for example, see whether election debates and broadcasts can also be interpreted? I am very curious about the reactions of the initiators and the Minister. I wish the initiators every success in their response. I am sure that this fine bill will work out very well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I call Mr Jetten, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for opening this meeting in sign language. Unfortunately, I am not going to do that, but I would like to say to everyone: 'Good afternoon'. I am very happy that we can deal with this bill here today, because in May last year I was on the train from The Hague to Nijmegen. At station Arnhem, where the train always stands still a bit longer, a young lady left the coupé of the train we were both in. As we walked by we had eye contact with each other and the young lady kindly nodded to me. And shortly before the conductor whistled and before the train doors closed again, the same young lady rushed back into the coupe, stopped at my chair and threw a folded note on the table that I had folded out in front of my train seat. And that's this note, Mr. Chairman. I kept it together with colleague Jessica van Eijs. And that note says, "Hey, a little crazy to write like that, but the recognition of sign language is mega-important! Good day, goodbye, Sabien." And, Mr. President, Sabien is also in the public gallery today. A fun and sympathetic action of hers, but also a very effective one, because it has got me thinking and has also encouraged me to take action. After receiving the note, I immediately apprehended my colleague Mr Jessica van Eijs, my colleague in the D66 group, with hearing problems. And I had often noticed with her how difficult it is sometimes to get everything involved in meetings, in the group or here in the plenary. Actually in a fraction of a second Jessica apprehended me back: "Yes, it's also mega-important, and it's high time!'. Shortly before, Jessica had joined Attje Kuik and Carla Dik-Faber, who, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Christian Union, had been working on the initiative law we are discussing today, with this proposal by PvdA, ChristenUnion and D66 to finally recognize the Dutch Sign language legally. But this law is more than just a legal recognition; it is also about dignity and identity, the recognition that the Dutch Sign Language is a full language. A language is perhaps the most important expression of one's identity. Ask a Friesian or a Limburger: their language is part of their being. And for the large community of deaf and hearing impaired in our country, so is the Dutch Sign language; it is their mother tongue. By recognising them, and linking them with rights and duties, we are taking a major step towards full participation of deaf people in our society. All praise is therefore due to the initiators and proposers of this bill. But above all, a great compliment to all those people from the deaf community who have fought for this for years to get this proposal on the agenda. But, Mr. Chairman, then an unveiling from my side. Because since Sabien's note, a new world has opened up for me. To be honest, I didn't know much or anything about sign language. And I could only guess at the daily discomfort that deaf people have to deal with in public space, whether physical or virtual, until Sabien visited the interpreter Dutch Sign Language course in Utrecht. There I spoke with teachers and students, but I listened mostly, to what should be done better and how we should start with that. And the beginning is this law. That brings me to the content of the proposal. Firstly, on the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Since 2016 this treaty has been in force, with the aim of improving the position of people with disabilities, also here in the Netherlands. In particular, the Convention calls on governments to recognise and promote sign languages such as the NGT and to combat discrimination based on language. With the legal recognition of the NGT, we at least guarantee on paper that we comply with that treaty. But in what way, according to the initiators, will that treaty be secured in practice? In what way does this law promote the use of and the right to use the NGT? And finally, what do the initiators expect from the government? Mr. Chairman. I have tried to deepen myself as much as possible in situations where the design of our communication is inadequate for deaf and hearing impaired people, situations where sign language or interpretation could have been helpful. In the various conversations I had, those situations were presented to me. Call installations at stations, but no information board. The absence of an interpreter for important news broadcasts or chamber debates. Trouble in the background, or an unstoppable microphone during a video meeting, leaving you missing essential information in a conversation. But I also stumbled upon shortcomings in our legislation during that deepening. The fact that today we are only taking a step towards the legal recognition of the Dutch Sign Language is of course already saying a lot. This has taken far too long. There are also provisions in other laws that I cannot reconcile with the treaties we have signed in this area. Mrs Özütok has just mentioned a few very good examples when it comes to education for young children. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators provide a list of provisions adopted on the basis of laws and regulations to promote the NGT. However, despite these possibilities, and although all signed treaties provide that discrimination on the basis of language is prohibited, we in the Netherlands limit the deaf and the hearing impaired in their rights and possibilities. This also applies, for example, to deaf students at a later age. Up to the age of 30, they are entitled to an interpreter in Dutch Sign Language or a writing interpreter in education, but after your 30th year you have to bear those costs yourself. In this way, we in the Netherlands are hindering access to education. As far as D66 is concerned, that is a fundamental right. Everyone must be able to learn for a lifetime. But thanks to this provision that is now in the law, this right is being deprived and we are treating it unequally on the basis of age and disability. That is why I ask the Minister if the Cabinet can indicate whether this age provision in the other OCW grants Act, Article 19a, can be deleted, so that deaf people over the age of 30 can also use an interpreter and study properly. Mr. Chairman. In addition to this point, I would like to stress that I do not want to look only at those facilities, because those facilities are a tool. Unlike some groups, which seemed to focus mainly on usefulness and necessity during the written round and focused on the question of what rights can be derived and the cost of recognising and implementing this initiative proposal, D66 focuses mainly on the group that is dependent on the NGT. Among other things, the Minister of BZK is given the task of promoting the use of the NGT. The Advisory Committee on Dutch Sign Language, to be set up, will advise the Minister on this matter. Since the advisory board will soon be publicly funded, I would also like to make its opinions and reports accessible to the public, not only for control but also to increase the wide awareness of the Dutch Sign Language and the Dutch Sign Centre. How do the initiators look at this? Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the initiators on the clear answer given in the note to the report. My party, like the other parties in the coalition, has taken the trouble to look into the bill, with the questions and comments to ensure a swift handling and a clear interpretation of the law. I am therefore pleased to see that a great many parties are present today in the debate on this bill. I am confident that we can now take this important step together. Mr. Chairman. I am glad that the public gallery is open and that people here can also follow the livestream using interpreters, because the deaf community has been looking forward to this law for years. Let us ensure that this is only the beginning of many beautiful things that we can do to promote emancipation and participation. Because, as Sabien already wrote in her note that I got on the train: recognition of the Dutch Sign Language is mega-important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u8	I fully agree with the authors and Mr Jetten that this is an incredibly important law. So pay tribute to dealing with it today. I have a small question, which I will also put to the authors in my own term. The law provides that the oath and the promise may be taken in sign language. We also believe that this is important in the courtroom, but unlike the law on the Frisian language, this law does not establish that people are free to use sign language in court without being responsible for an interpreter themselves. In other words, if you are hearing impaired or deaf yourself, you can operate in sign language in the courtroom, but then you also have to provide yourself with an interpreter, which can cost quite a bit. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that we should settle this in such a way that it should not be a threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u9	Thank you for pointing this out to me by Mr Van Dijk, because I was not so keen on this when I examined this law. I think D66 and the SP always find each other in the interest of access to justice. So I'm gonna dive in before we get the second term of this bill. You will ask the initiators in your contribution. Then let me use this moment to ask the cabinet how it looks at access to the law in relation to recognition of the Dutch Sign Language.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u11	How can the speaker chair go down more? Can you do that for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u12	Sure, there's a button over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u13	I've never used that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u14	Under the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u15	Oh, there! I thought I was taking my time down with that, so I'm never gonna get that. There's ten minutes on the clock, so I thought, "I'm not gonna turn in a minute of it myself."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u16	It's a little low now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u17	Whatever you say, you're the boss here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u18	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u19	All right, Mr President, let me start with a serious word: on behalf of the CDA Group, I would like to thank the petitioners Kikken, Dik-Faber and Van Eijs for the work they have done to come up with a legislative proposal to recognize the Dutch Sign Language. The submission of a legislative proposal takes an enormous amount of time and a great deal of patience, because it also takes a while to get there, but the CDA thinks it is worth a compliment that these colleagues and the support have found time to come up with a proposal on this issue. This is a very important proposal for the deaf community and also for those who are hearing impaired when it comes to their position in Dutch society. I think that the other authors will not blame me for picking out Mr Van Eijs as specifically, who goes into history as the first Member of Parliament who is ill-heard and therefore knows from his own experience how the outside world, often not at all with evil will, can be so little attuned to what you need to be able to fully participate in society. I was in an elementary school class where one of my best friends was deaf, heavily hearing impaired and I was lucky enough to read his lips very well. So I never had to learn sign language, but I did have to explicitly articulate so I got very far. It also taught me very young that besides the things that are so normal, like that you understand and can experience everything and everything goes by itself, there are also people who really just need the help of others in that area. Hence my commitment to this subject. Compliments, therefore, for the proposers. In any case, they have seen from our written input that we, the CDA Group, are very positive about this proposal. I would also like to mention the deaf community, which has also drawn very hard on it. In 2018 we received a petition of over 15,000 signatures to get this started. It is therefore particularly good that we can discuss it in this first debate after the summer. Mr. Chairman. As a CDA, we have been working longer to improve the position of the deaf communities. Our former MEP, Maria Martens, has been working for years to get this language recognised as a minority language at European level. When, unfortunately, there was an attack in Utrecht and there was a need for crisis communication, we, as CDA, asked questions about this and got Minister Grapperhaus to arrange that we will take care of it by default in the future. The corona crisis has brought a lot of bad things, but a positive point is how normal we're going to find it with each other that there's a deaf interpreter in the picture. As far as the CDA is concerned, that is certainly a step in the right direction. Because in the Netherlands, unlike many other European countries, sign language has been invisible for quite a long time. At other press conferences, in Scandinavian countries, on TV, I could see a sign interpreter much more often than we were used to in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. We have also seen that the bill has been properly amended. Usefulness and necessity are better expressed, uncertainties have been removed and the Body for Sign Language and Deaf Culture has been replaced by an advisory board of Dutch Sign Language. If I have understood the contributors correctly, then this law should not only be seen as recognition of that language, but also implicitly as recognition of the Dutch deaf culture. The CDA Group does experience the discussion about the usefulness and need of legal recognition as a passed station, because we believe it is certain. The Dutch Sign language is vulnerable because it is not necessarily transferred from generation to generation and because children, who are by definition dependent on others in education, have to acquire the language themselves. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, it is therefore a responsibility on society as a whole to do as much as possible to enable the deaf community to participate in society. The government may also contribute to this; legal recognition also obliges the government to do so. However, it has not become purely a government responsibility, because maintaining the sign language also requires something from the deaf community itself and demands a commitment from Dutch society to make life easier for the deaf and the hearing impaired anyway. The central criticism of the proposal is that it may prove to be symbolic legislation. The question that many people ask is what it will practically improve for the deaf and the hearing impaired. In response to questions from the Court, the initiators give a somewhat double answer as regards the CDA. Perhaps to lower the threshold to support the law, they stress that the cost of the law is rather limited. But at the same time they recognise that there is still a great deal to be done in terms of facilities for the deaf and the hearing impaired. In the note following the report, the initiators even report two worrying situations. In the Netherlands, organisations and individuals are refused access to interpreters or additional costs for interpretation services are calculated. This is also the case with public institutions, which I find impossible to understand. I would ask the initiators to discuss this further in their first term. Because despite appropriate education, deaf and hearing impaired children still face many problems in education. There are still too few young people who opt for deaf interpreter training. Taking part in public transport can be very difficult if the delay or breakdown of a train is called, but you simply cannot understand it. That is why a central question is also what expectation the initiators of the government themselves have as the Second and First Chamber adopt this law. Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum to the law, the initiators often refer to the Frisian language law I, as a Frisian, have to bring that up as an example for the bill we are talking about today. That is rightly an example, but that example can also be an argument to dampen the joy of celebration somewhat. For indeed, the Frisian language has been recognized for many years and a matter of the government, yet the government often considers the promotion of the Frisian language to be the business of the Frisian themselves; then the hands are further removed from it. Do the initiators also see the risk that the ball of the Dutch Sign language, even after the adoption of the law, can simply be returned to the deaf community? What, then, should really be agreed with them in order to prevent this, as we see in the Frisian language? I would also like to put this question to the Minister for the Interior, who is here today as an advisor to the House of Representatives. I would also ask the initiators, in their first term, to consider whether introducing the right to take the oath or the promise in sign language and the obligation to offer crisis communication in sign language also means that other legislation may need to be amended. A practical example: it has occurred in the Chamber that the promise was made in the Frisian language and had to be repeated, because the text was not correct. How do we guarantee that in the Lower House for something we can't actually write down? It is a very practical question, but it is good to think about it together. Finally, I would like to mention the argument put forward by the authors that the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language may be implicitly understood as recognition of the deaf culture, as the Council of State has also made comments on this. The proposers then removed all direct comments on the deaf culture from the proposal. The CDA understands that if the main reason is to make the law a little more solid. But many deaf people see deafness not as a limitation, but as their identity. You are not a minority as the community in which you grow up and are active, almost entirely consists of other people who are deaf, regardless of whether you yourself have a limitation or that society restricts you because they do not take sufficient account of you. Deafness must not always be seen as a deficit to be resolved. The vast majority of people who have been born deaf and raised really experience this differently. I would therefore ask the initiators, in their first term, to look into the deaf culture and whether it is sufficient to recognise it implicitly. What other avenues, besides this bill, do the initiators possibly see to give the deaf culture the place she deserves? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, many thanks to the initiators Kikken, Dik-Faber and Van Eijs, as well as those who preceded them. Many thanks to all the supporters as well. In particular, I mention Pim Roza from the Chamber, but also Corrie Tijsseling, Eva Westerhoff, Trude Schermer, Daniel Scheper and all the others whose names I cannot mention here now because of lack of time. Also a very warm welcome to everyone in the public gallery. It is very special that you can follow this debate by interpreting it live today. I hope to see that much more often in this Chamber. For 30 years the Dutch Sign Language has been recognized. In 2014, one of my predecessors, MP Roelof van Laar, presented his intention to achieve a legal anchoring of the Dutch Sign language. In this respect, it is a very good time: it is now finally time for this initiative proposal to be discussed in the House of Representatives. I agree with Mr Jetten: this has taken a very long time. Mr. Chairman. This bill regulates this legal recognition well and also lays down a number of rights and obligations arising therefrom, such as the right to take an oath, promise or confirmation in the Dutch Sign Language and the duty of the Minister of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations to promote the use of the Dutch Sign Language. In addition, an advisory body shall also be set up to advise the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations on this matter. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, 30,000 people are deaf or very hard of hearing. About 15,000 people use sign language. For those people it is their mother tongue, a full language to communicate with. Sign language is already legally recognised in many other countries. As far as we are concerned, there is no good reason why we did not do this in the Netherlands. It recognises the importance of accessibility, including for the deaf and the hearing impaired. On paper there are good facilities for deaf and hearing impaired people in the Netherlands; interpreters in Dutch Sign Language are in principle available in education, at work and also for private situations. But in practice, I fear that many of the people present here can talk about this from personal experience, deaf people and hearing impaired people are still far too often against prejudices and other thresholds. Interpreters are refused in certain places or are sometimes not always available. The same is the case with important press conferences. It was just a matter of press conferences in the event of disasters and crises where it is important that everyone knows quickly what is going on. Without an interpreter Dutch Sign language this is not easy for the deaf and the hearing impaired to follow. As an educational spokesperson, I am not even talking about the problems that many deaf and hearing impaired children encounter. Mrs Özütok also mentioned it. Because far from all children have appropriate education at the moment in the way we would like. Mr. Chairman. I sincerely hope that this bill can count on House-wide support. And I fully agree with Mr Van der Molen who said that the usefulness and necessity of the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language should be beyond question. But in case there are still doubters among us, I can hardly imagine it, but in the event that I would like to ask the initiators once more why this legal anchoring is necessary. And above all, what benefits they see in the short term for the deaf and very hearing impaired community in the Netherlands. What impact will this have on their lives? Finally, two questions to the Minister. What is it going to do to implement this law, on the basis of a positive legal process? And what else is the Cabinet going to do to improve accessibility for deaf and hearing impaired people, including with regard to media and education? Mr. Chairman. After this whole story, you will not be surprised that we in the PvdA group will wholeheartedly support this bill. Once again, I would like to thank all those involved, but above all thank those involved in the deaf community for their commitment and, above all, for their perseverance. We look forward to legal recognition. Let us not leave it at that, but let us work together to ensure that the bill comes to life not only in word but also in action and that we give it both hands and feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Madam President. I agree with colleagues that today is a very special day. Because it is not only the first day after the recess we meet again, but also the first day for a very long time that we have audiences in the room that can follow our debates. How special is it that this debate is taking place today, today, by means of interpreters? I just love that. I think it's a special moment. I am also honoured to be able to speak in this debate today. Because everyone in this country must be able to participate fully in our society. The deaf and hearing impaired are often hampered because they cannot always communicate in their mother tongue. More than 15,000 people in our country communicate primarily in the Dutch Sign Language. I am sorry that I am not powerful, but I hope to be able to take some of the gestures I have seen today. In particular, let us not make the mistake of seeing sign language as a tool. Because as at home as I feel in Dutch when I speak Dutch, they feel at home as they communicate in the Dutch Sign Language, their own language. The importance of the Dutch Sign Language for this group has been insufficiently recognised for a long time. Until today. Because today we are discussing the initiative legislative proposal that finally regulates the recognition of our national sign language by law. This is a moment the deaf community has eagerly looked forward to, because this initiative bill is so much more than a law for deaf and hard of hearing. It is the recognition of their mother tongue as a unique and full language, but also the recognition of their own culture and identity. This legal recognition is therefore a milestone in their years of struggle for recognition. The fight for recognition has been going on for almost 30 years. The Christian Union Group has expressed its support for the legal recognition of the Dutch Sign Language years ago. One of my predecessors, Esmé Wiegman, argued in 2010 that the Dutch Sign language should be legally recorded. Several Cabinets have also thought about legal recognition. It was also promised that this recognition would take place if the lexicon for the Dutch Sign language were completed. This completion took place already in 2002, but legal recognition remained out. Meanwhile, the Netherlands has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It calls on governments to recognise and promote sign languages. In addition, a few years ago the Frisian language was legally recognized. All the more reason to take this step of legal recognition now also for the Dutch Sign Language. I would therefore like to thank the initiators very much from this place for the legislative proposal they have tabled and for the work they have put into it. It is a long journey, which started four years ago, with former colleague Roelof van Laar of the Labour Party and my colleague Carla Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. Later on Mr.Kuiken took over the baton and D66, in the person of Mrs.Van Eijs, also took part. I would like to thank them very much. In particular, I would also like to thank the staff who have contributed to this legislative proposal. Pim Roza is sitting here today, but I know there's more employees working on it. Thank you for this wonderful proposal and your wonderful cooperation. Mr. Chairman. With this proposal for a separate law, the initiators join the route chosen for the Frisian language. The core of the bill is in Article 2: "The Dutch Sign Language is recognized." The initiators rightly say in the explanatory statement that legal recognition mainly means strengthening the position of people who depend on the Dutch Sign Language. It is thanks to interpreters like Irma Sluis and Corline Koolhof that the Dutch Sign language has become known to the general public in recent months. But let us not forget why the interpreters are standing there. They ensure that deaf and hearing impaired people can participate in our society in their own mother tongue. Hopefully it will also become visible to everyone that there is a large group of people who depend on the Dutch Sign language for obtaining important information. I have a few more questions to the initiators and the minister in the legislative proposal. In addition to legal recognition, the initiators also want to promote the use of the Dutch Sign Language in administrative traffic and in legal traffic. I like that. They want to make the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations responsible for this. Can the initiators indicate how far the Minister's responsibility extends in this respect? Should all public speeches by ministers, for example, be translated into the Dutch Sign language? Or is there a selection in that? I am very curious to see how the initiators look at this. It is good that deaf sign speakers can also use their mother tongue in contact with the government. However, this is also an important task for local authorities such as the municipalities. How do the initiators see the role of the minister in this? How's the minister looking at this? Can the Minister also indicate how she intends to implement Article 3 of the bill? Does that offer enough guidance for her to pursue a policy aimed at promoting the Dutch Sign Language? Mr. Chairman. It is very good that the initiators have included specific provisions on crisis communication and taking an oath, promise or confirmation. I ask them if there are any other situations in which they consider it necessary to establish the right to use the Dutch Sign Language. I come to a very visible point: the use of Dutch Sign Language by the interpreters at important moments. In public broadcasting, the journals are already translated into the Dutch Sign language, as well as important broadcasts, such as the King's Christmas speech. This evening there is another interpreter between the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS at the press conference. But my group believes that we can do more, especially in the House of Representatives. It would be good if at least weekly Question Time and the General Political Reviews were provided with an interpreter Dutch Sign Language. I am curious to see what the authors are looking at, but perhaps we will come back to that at another round in the debate. Perhaps it would also be nice if we could get a ruling from the Chamber on that point. Then the Advisory College Dutch Sign Language. The initiators base themselves on the existing advisory body for the Frisian language, but what exactly do they expect from the advisory board? What will be the status of the college's opinions? How do we ensure that suggestions from the deaf community to promote the use of the Dutch Sign Language are actually included in the policy? Mr President, I will conclude. My group is very pleased that this bill is there. I look forward to replying to the initiators and to the Minister. Many European countries have preceded us in recognising that national sign language should be an official language of the country. Now it's up to the Netherlands. It is high time that we too took this step. I therefore sincerely hope that this proposal will receive very broad support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Language is incredibly important to determine who we are and how we relate to the other. It makes us part of a community. Can't express you is frustrating and harmful, for the individual and for the community. The deaf community is as good as anyone else. However, expressing yourself in a hearing world still goes with obstacles. Understanding the hearing world without recognition of the importance of the Dutch Sign Language is a major challenge. Therefore, on behalf of the SP, much appreciation for the work done by the proposers to give greater recognition to the language of the deaf community. Also thank you for all the help you have received, including from Eva Westerhoff, former chairman of Deafship, the interest organisation for the deaf and sign speakers. Especially in a crisis, it is essential that information is accessible to everyone. We may have been able to see that more than ever this year. This bill regulates this accessibility to be better anchored, and that is quite right. The law also provides that the oath and the promise may be taken in sign language. That seems to us to be a good thing and is also important in the court of law. I have been talking about it for a while in interruption to Mr Jetten. Because unlike in the Frisian language law, it is not established in this law that people are free to use sign language in court without being responsible for an interpreter themselves. This is not the case, for example, in criminal matters if there is no right to add. It is now becoming increasingly difficult for people to access justice. Why, I ask the proposers, have they not opted for an anchoring in the law as is the case with the Frisian language? In other words, will we, as a government, arrange that deaf and hearing impaired people are always entitled to an interpreter in court and that we therefore provide a public compensation for that interpreter? I'd like a response from the petitioners and from the minister. The SP sees the importance of a shared language, of being able to express, of being heard and of understanding the world around you. This bill is a valuable addition to that point. We therefore wholeheartedly support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u26	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mr. Chairman. First, appreciation and thanks to the initiators for this bill. I would like to add my voice to what my fellow Members have said. Making an own-initiative proposal takes a lot of thinking and a lot of time, and it is nice to see that colleagues are thus committed to a particular issue and are also able to bring it to an initiative legislative proposal. Thank you, therefore, to my fellow Members Kikken, Dik-Faber and Van Eijs, and of course not to forget the support, because it is at least as important as the initiators, because it all has to be edited, executed and discussed. Mr. Chairman. When preparing for the discussion of this bill, I was reminded of the word "hamstering." That is actually the only word I know in sign language, and we all know why. I think that's also widespread. It all has to do with that one press conference around the corona crisis. It is nice to see how, at such a moment of crisis, Dutch society and also the government realize that this is so important that we really need to take action and pay attention to this. In that sense, this bill is, of course, a wonderful illustration of how we want to have it and how it could be properly arranged. That only makes the thanks towards the initiators greater. The fact that deaf people can speak this way has not been commonplace for a long time. I'm a historian, and you wonder what that's like with the sign language. If I understood correctly, the French priest De l'Epée did not take the initiative until 1760 or perhaps you should say 'already in 1760'. That was revolutionary. That was new. In his education he also made use of the first forms of sign language. In addition, he gave instruction lessons in many places about how to do his job, and there was a great deal of interest in it. Following his initiative, deaf schools also emerged in the Netherlands. That is an enrichment of your historical knowledge in the preparation of a subject like this. The special thing is that at the end of the nineteenth century the sign language became obsolete again. Then the starting point is: no, deaf people must learn to speak mainly by lip reading and the forced use of the larynx, imitating it. Fortunately, time has changed in that respect. The use of Dutch Sign Language is stimulated in many ways and in many areas the sign language was recognised by practical measures. The explanatory memorandum in the legislative proposal also gives good examples of this. In particular, the legislative proposal deals with the choice to actually recognise the Dutch Sign language as an official language alongside Dutch and Frisian. In addition to this more formal recognition, the bill also contains two concrete measures, namely the obligation of the government to offer crisis communication also in Dutch Sign Language, and the ability of colleagues to take the oath or promise in this language. Mr. Chairman. Those are clear measures. I'll put a question to that. I would like to hear from the initiators whether, in their view, the use of sign language is sufficiently anchored, secured and enforceable in practice. I also have a question for the Minister. What more concrete steps does it see for itself, in addition to the basic recognition of sign language? What else would it take to give that sign language even more of a place in Dutch society? This is the legal anchoring, but how does it work in practice? How do the proposers, the initiators look at this and what steps does the Minister still see as options? The SGP sees that the bill also calls for an advisory board. In doing so, the initiators assume that it is also indirectly about "advice on the deaf culture," as it is referred to. Can they clarify a little more about what specific content of this advice they are thinking of? The initiative proposal is also a nice addition to a requirement arising from the UN Convention on People with Disabilities. It is good that there are many ways to find ways of allowing deaf people and people with severe hearing impairment to participate in society as normally as possible. The SGP will therefore strongly support this initiative legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u28	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr El Yassini on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I may also be the fence shutter, as the last speaker. In any case, I would also like to welcome everyone in the public gallery. My colleague from the Christian Union also said it very nicely. After an intelligent lockdown and a corona period it is the first time we have people in the public gallery again and also just in this setting. I think it's fantastic. I would also like to congratulate the initiators, Mrs Carla Dik-Faber, Mrs Kikken and Mrs Van Eijs, who have put this on the agenda and have worked on it, and, of course, the support that has helped to do so. I like that very much. It is very important for the VVD that everyone can participate fully in society, that everyone can strive for their happiness. Part of this full participation is that everyone should have access to information from the government. Unfortunately, this is not always possible for deaf and hearing impaired people. Public communication seems to occasionally raise some thresholds, so deaf and hearing impaired people do not have full access to information from the same government and thus less full participation in society. The VVD believes that action is required on this matter anyway. For example, the use of an interpreter at press conferences on corona is very well received.Think of our Irma.... but is also always seen by us as good developments in which really important steps still have to be taken. The government has the task of informing people who are deaf or hearing impaired about important matters in a way that is understandable to them. Offering subtitles or text is often not enough, because many people who are deaf are less skilled in the spoken and written Dutch language. They have the Dutch Sign Language as their native language. The Dutch Sign language has a different grammar. Sign speakers are much more focused on visual communication. As a result, they have more difficulty with the speed of subtitles or understanding text than hearing people. Where necessary and possible, the aim should therefore be to provide communication in sign language. The Dutch Sign language is socially recognized in the Netherlands and standardized with the help of the government, but not legally anchored. Many sign speakers have been waiting for this law for decades. They see, according to the initiators, in this law not only recognition of their language, but also of their being. This bill aims at the legal recognition of the Dutch Sign Language. The Dutch Sign language is the mother tongue of people born deaf or deaf before they have acquired the spoken Dutch language. The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities sets out clear principles on this subject. The UN Convention on Persons with Disabilities states that countries ratifying this Convention must recognise sign languages. In this context, the initiators make this proposal. The VVD would once again like to congratulate the initiators for having included this important issue on the parliamentary agenda. The VVD is open to this bill. Wherever possible, we are very happy to contribute to solutions that sign speakers seek to participate fully in society. The VVD has a number of questions. We would like to put it to the initiators, particularly following the opinion of the Council of State, because the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities states in Article 21 (e) that governments should recognise and promote sign languages. My question to the initiators is what main added value, according to them, is the legal anchoring of the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language and what main added value, according to them, is the arrangement of the advisory college in relation to, for example, the policy making of the cabinet. How do the initiators see that? In addition, we have heard from several colleagues in the Chamber that the deaf community often experiences a lot of problems in practice. A good example of this was, I think, Mr Jetten, who wanted to study after your 30th, with an obstacle being thrown up at some point. There are many more examples. The VVD would like to know what problems with the bill can be solved. Could these problems not also be solved by focusing on policies or by amending other laws that may create obstacles for sign-language speakers? The VVD also wonders whether the legal anchoring of the recognition and the advisory college for Dutch Sign Language will have the effect of actually promoting the Dutch Sign Language. According to my colleague Harry van der Molen from the CDA he said: we did that with the Frisian language, but then we see that the ball is played back to the Frisian community. I wonder to what extent the initiators are looking at this, at putting the ball back at the deaf community. We would also like to know if the initiators have an insight into the consequences for other governments, such as municipalities, provinces and water boards. Is there any insight into the consequences for these other governments, both organisationally and financially, so that we know what is coming to us? Because at the moment we want to recognize it as an official language, we are going to ask a lot of the government and the various governments in their communication with the deaf community. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Can the initiators outline a number of other practical consequences, beyond the obligation to offer crisis communication also in Dutch Sign Language and the right to take the oath, vow or confirmation to implement a legal requirement in the Dutch Sign Language? These two examples were added to the modified explanatory memorandum. The question is whether there are other practical consequences, so that we get much better insight into what rights the deaf community can derive from the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language. Finally. Is using an interpreter Dutch Sign Language by the government no longer an occasion of ordinary doing? I ask not only the initiators, but also the minister. Because in the end, of course, we can put everything in the law, but if we don't see it in practice, experience it and experience it, then it's no good to me. I just want us to take these steps forward. Again, my compliments for putting it on the agenda. We look forward to the answers to the questions, and I wish you all the best with this initiative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. El Yassini. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-10.u31	For the answers given by the initiators, in particular by Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA, Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of ChristenUnion and Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66, we are going to plan a good time in good consultation. Preferably as soon as possible, I understand. Sure. Then I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and also the people in the public gallery. I hope to see you again next time.
