ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin as usual on Tuesday afternoon with the oral questions. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Medical Care. The first question is from Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA to the Minister for Medical Care about a shortage of medical materials. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I always mention the three Bs: care must be affordable, accessible and especially available. In De Financieele Dagblad we read that there is a shortage of medical devices due to new, stricter legislation. Let me say first of all that this legislation is absolutely necessary, because we are all done with leaking breast implants and other bad examples. But what does it turn out to be? Patients will suffer as the products have not been inspected in time. That can't be true, can it? Because what are we talking about here? Over a very wide range. Medical devices include bandages, infusion pumps, injection needles, MRI scans, breathing masks, but also stents in heart operations, for example. All these hundreds of thousands of products need to be inspected. It is already apparent that some products are being withdrawn from the market and this can have serious consequences, because if there is one link missing, for example, a whole operation cannot go on. Mr. Chairman. The CDA therefore wants a reporting obligation for manufacturers, as we do for medicines. Because it can't be that we don't have an overview of those products. Every manufacturer should have the social responsibility and patient safety first. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that there should be a notification obligation with European colleagues as soon as possible? And what indications does the Minister now have with regard to the deficit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I think the availability of medical devices is a serious matter. Of course, we want them to be of good quality and that they are in stock. Mrs van den Berg spoke about this. The negotiations on the more stringent regulation referred to by Mrs Van den Berg started some five years ago. Those rules have been known since 2017. This also means that parties, such as hospitals and specialists, can prepare themselves for a re-examination of medical devices. Perhaps the article in the newspaper has given the impression that all hundreds of thousands of medical devices must have been re-approved by May 2020, but that is not the case. Re-examinations are usually issued for about five years, so if you received a re-examination for a particular device in 2019, it can last for about five years. It might be good to make that clarification. Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Berg's question was: should you organise a reporting obligation in a European context? I don't think that's very effective. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of medical devices in the Netherlands alone, so I think it would be super complex if you had to report the deficits. Moreover, it does not seem practical to me to do so on a European scale for something that has to be done in the coming months. So I see more of the measures that we can take at national level. That was Mrs van den Berg's other question. First of all, I have been talking for many years to the domes, the domes of care parties and the domes of manufacturers. If they experience a problem somewhere, they can always go to VWS. So far this has been very rarely used. There are therefore few acute reports of deficits. That's one. Two: if necessary, if the need arises, then an exemption for re-examination of a particular device can be granted. That's a temporary thing. We are also very careful about this, because we do not want manufacturers to sit back and that the exemption will take a number of years. Those manufacturers must, of course, stay on track and ensure that a timely re-approval is carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Minister says: I do not want to do it at European level, but I am prepared to take action for the Netherlands. Then he indicates that there are few reports of acute lack or lack of a drug. But as I just pointed out, one drug in the entire chain can have enormous consequences. For example, if you don't have stents in heart surgery, you can have the bandage material and the needles and so on, but then you still have a problem with that heart surgery. So is the Minister prepared to come to a national hotline so that we can at least understand it? Furthermore, the Minister states that I am prepared to grant an exemption, but we can see from the domes that the conditions for this are rather unclear and therefore they do not know when they will be eligible and when they will not be eligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u6	I said at the beginning of my speech that we have been talking for many years to both hospitals and manufacturers. They are also sitting at one table with us, first to prepare that regulation and then that is what has happened in recent years to see if there are any bottlenecks. In recent years, no bottlenecks have been reported from the hospitals as regards re-examination and re-certification. Once again, if tomorrow is different, if a hospital or a manufacturer says that there is a bottleneck, then of course we will get to work on it and there is the possibility of granting such an exemption. If that is unclear, I do not know anything about this, then we can also be asked to give some of the wine on the VWS side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Minister states that there are no reports that re-examinations would not happen in time, but he himself indicated that there are reports of shortages and an acute problem. So I ask the Minister once again: is he prepared to map this, and can he indicate, for example, whether there is a difference in deficits between university hospitals and hospitals in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u8	For the sake of clarity, there have been no reports from the hospitals of that recertification in recent years. In recent years, two or three requests for exemption from a manufacturer have been made. This means that it has asked whether its tool may remain on the market for a while longer without recertification. So that's just a very small number. That's encouraging, but we shouldn't pretend it's finished. The door is open when there is an actual problem. But once again, we have had a lot of discussions with the various parties in recent years, and that does not create much concrete problems. I'd like to say, thank goodness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u9	The law will come into force soon. So the situation could be very different. In this context, I have always received the five p's: appropriate planning is a prevention against poor performance. Because if we don't take action now, we could be in big trouble in a few months' time. Hence my appeal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u10	It's a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u11	The law will enter into force in May 2020. A transitional period is foreseen for a number of years. Apart from the familiarity with the subject matter of hospitals and manufacturers in recent years, there is therefore also a growth model for the coming years. There is also the possibility of an exemption and a possibility to always report it to VWS if there is a risk of a problem. Then we can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u14	Who was at the microphone before? Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister talks about the ambiguity that exists about when there may be exceptional cases. I understand that there are also uncertainties in the field about the definition, that it is unclear when these exceptions can be made. It seems to me that in life-threatening situations such as a kidney dialysis device that is no longer functioning, an immediate exception should be possible. But how is the Minister going to make that clear to the field?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u16	Already in the preparation of the regulation we started from VWS to organize, together with the various parties, basically hospitals and manufacturers, including scientific associations and other parties, information and information. We have organised many, really many in-depth sessions per theme to prepare the sector for that upcoming regulation. Field meetings have been organised on implementation and a sounding board with both parties has been set up for years, so that interests can all come together at one table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u17	Mrs. Van den Berg. No, Mrs. Van den Berg has already sat down. I mean Mrs Bergkamp, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u18	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Vera's V, let's just say. Apparently, there's some uncertainty in the field right now. 50PLUS was also trying to clarify it. The Minister doesn't want to worry and doesn't want to be required to report. He does say that a temporary suspension is one of the possibilities. Then how come that uncertainty is there in the field anyway? Does he also want to address the Commissioner about the admission of the inspection offices, in order to speed up that process? There are concerns about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u19	I am not very much in favour of setting up a reporting obligation at European level. You could turn it around, too. When an issue arises in the sector, parties are always welcome to join us. I think you should always keep the door open, especially in the light of changing regulations. But I would like to point out that this does not quite come over the sector like a little rain. Preparations started a few years ago and the regulations themselves were adopted in 2019. Those are therefore a number of years of preparation. Now the regulation will start in 2020, with a growth period of up to 2024, I say out of my mind. So we've been at it for many years and there's plenty of room to have those conversations with each other. So I am somewhat surprised that suddenly there would be uncertainty, because once again, we are in a sounding board group with the different parties, as we do in the Netherlands, to remove that ambiguity. The door remains open to do so. In Europe, we have emphasised in particular the fact that the capacity of notified bodies is not infinite and we naturally very much want that capacity to be as large as possible. But that is something that is also widely shared in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u21	Yes, your second question, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u22	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u23	No, this is your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u24	Excuse me, Mr President, but I had asked if the Minister would like to address the Commissioner...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u25	Oh, yes, you want an answer to an earlier question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u26	...to speed up the process of the relevant agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u27	Yes. The answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u28	Yeah, the process of speeding up. We have just seen that the field parties are asking for more time to get used to the new rules. The subject is therefore on the agenda, but I honestly believe that acceleration is not going to take place, because the rules will enter into force from May 2020. With regard to the clarification: I would like to draw attention in Europe to Mrs Bergkamp's question about this process, but I myself think that we in the Netherlands should make the most of the clarity. That is why I would like to emphasise that my door is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u29	The Minister is always talking about ambiguity, but if I have read the reports correctly, it is mainly about the pace, the speed with which organisations such as hospitals and nursing homes manage to get products re-approved. One of the reasons for this seems to be the fact that only nine of these inspection offices have been authorised, i.e. authorised to be able to re-evaluate products. Can the Minister, whether or not he cooperates with colleagues in Europe, do something to speed up this process? In my view, therefore, it is not only that ambiguity, but it is above all that it is now filling up with these inspection offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u30	It is indeed full at those inspection offices. In the meantime ten notified bodies are already carrying out inspections for these new directives, so that's a good thing. Numbers don't say that much here either. For example, a very large organisation from the United Kingdom has come to the Netherlands. That's a huge help for the capacity here. If a manufacturer wants more speed, he can also see if he can go elsewhere in Europe to a notified body. So there are several possibilities. I myself keep in mind the possibility of agreeing with notified bodies that, in certain cases, if there was a threatening, acute issue, they would prioritize a particular category of tools. That doesn't say everything about the lead time, but it might be an opportunity to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-2.u31	Thank you.
