ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. We shall begin with Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD, who has four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's good news that the messages from hospitals are getting better, but the number of people on the ic is still rising. We must now persevere and push through the limitation, otherwise things will go very quickly. And holding on to that, Mr. Chairman, that hurts. The corona crisis is hitting us hard. It touches the sick, it touches the people in care, doctors and nurses in the hospital, but it certainly also affects people in home care and nursing homes. They are very concerned about their own protective equipment. I understand that it's difficult, I heard the cabinet speak of a "bonanza".......................................................................................................................................................... For many people in care there is also the risk of trauma, on PTSD. The expertise of the Defense Department is already being deployed. There was a lot of enthusiasm for this but it happens more often now and how do we reach as many people as possible who suffer from it? Mr. Chairman. It certainly affects our entrepreneurs and their employees. They have logical and serious concerns about whether their business is still there, whether their job is still there, whether they still have their income. Unfortunately, companies are already bankrupt. Others depend on the support package and count the weeks they can last. I would like to ask the cabinet whether the sounds are correct that ornamental farming is in danger of falling through all the arrangements. When you hear those sounds of entrepreneurs, I also have the first reflex: I want them to be able to do more; get to work! I want us to be able to save the companies and the jobs. But unfortunately, wanting something doesn't mean it can be done. The last thing we need to do now is to put on top of the concerns people already have, create false hopes and false expectations. I hear some say that we are only taking these measures to save the elderly who would die anyway. As if that in itself would not be a good reason! But unfortunately, many vulnerable elderly people are now dying with measures. We're all doing this to give anyone who gets infected and sick, of any age, a chance to save it. If we loosen up now, the ic-beds will soon be full. If you need an I.C. place and you don't have one, it just stops. Young, old, healthy or ill, it doesn't matter that much anymore. No ic: no breath, no life. We're standing right where we are by listening to experts. We have to keep doing that. They are clear: it is too early to relax the rules. It's bad for health, but it's also bad for the economy. If you're an entrepreneur in intensive care or you have to go to the hospital, then your business won't make it. And if your employees get sick or even die, it's not worth it. Most entrepreneurs who approach us also indicate that themselves. No matter how hard it is, health is the most important thing. Of course, if it's possible later and it's safe again, then we need to make more possible. And we need to think about how one day you can go from an intelligent lockdown to an intelligent open-up. But don't set a date and don't raise false expectations. Maybe after April 28th, we should just keep going the way we are. And if we're gonna do this Easter weekend massively stupid stuff, it's gonna have to be even stricter than it is now. I ask the Cabinet to take account of matters such as catching-up for diseases other than corona when assessing when there can be anything more at all. I would ask the cabinet to pay close attention to the health of our caregivers, to overload, to burn-outs. There's got to be recovery time for that. It's gotta be baked in. Listen to the doctors and certainly the nurses. Link it to knowledge and testing, to track and trace, to smart apps that give insight and can also redirect people if they take too much risk or if they have been in contact with someone who is infected. Can the cabinet tell us what is happening now to the development of that kind of technology and also to legal research with a view to privacy? When can we expect more information about this? Mr. Chairman. You can't negotiate with a virus, even in our polderland. This virus will be among us for a while. We will have to live with the corona crisis and its economic effects to a greater or lesser extent. It will be a macabre dance with the virus, where we sometimes get more space and sometimes have to step back. Until there's a vaccine, we'll somehow be in a corona crisis. Hopefully in a better phase, more and more lighter and better to wear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. Mrs. Ouwehand, yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I saw Mr. Asscher get up, too, so I waited quietly for you to give me the signal to come forward. I have a question for the VVD about whether or not to use apps. We saw the press conference. The cabinet itself says that privacy must be guaranteed, but the Dutch Data Protection Authority says: if it cannot be done anonymously, you have to change the law. I'd think, if you can't guarantee anonymity, it's just not an option. How's the VVD in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would put as much privacy in the design of the apps as possible, focus on what is minimally necessary to help us get control of the virus and inform us about it. There should be no impression that you take advantage of the opportunity to want to know or follow more, and longer, than is necessary. I believe that this can be incorporated into the current legislation. Should there really be something crucial that all experts say "if we could still have that information piece, it would help us much more in the fight against it, in giving freedom to ourselves and for our health', I am open to that. But the basic attitude is: only strictly necessary. If it can be decentralized. If you can, don't save it. So start from as little breach as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you for that. I'll tell you the truth: I thought, "But you can't do that with those apps." But I read that privacy experts say, "Maybe we can do it." But does the VVD then agree with the Party for Animals that, if these possibilities have been identified and that analysis is there, this should in any case be submitted to the Chamber? The cabinet may say 'it seems to us a good idea', but we should be able to look at it before the cabinet takes a final decision on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u7	Not to be silly, but it depends a little bit on it. Sometimes one word for several people has different meanings. I'm just gonna use the word "presented." I assume that we are talking about it here before it is introduced, especially when it comes to a legislative amendment: then it has to be done. Otherwise, we'll talk about it. I would not want to make it a formal one, especially when it is possible under current legislation and privacy rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u8	But that's what the Chamber is about, isn't it? To discuss something or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u9	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this interruption. That is why I said that we are speaking anyway, but "representing" can mean something else for some people. From "discuss" you go through "advise" to "advise." We lost the viewer, but here inside we know the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u10	That's good. Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u11	We saw this morning at the briefing that 40% of the nursing homes now know the infection with COVID-19, the cornonavirus. So people are going to die there, too. Mr Dijkhoff rightly points out the lack of protective equipment. That leads to terrible dilemmas. How do you deal with that? Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that in this respect we also need the direction that is now in place for hospital care outside hospitals, in order to ensure that there is rapid clarity for the staff, and that we better protect our older people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u12	Personally, my inclination would be: yes. Unless the cabinet can explain very well that it's wise not to. I will listen to that too, but my peasant understanding also says that you should at least not get competition in getting those resources. It might help if you streamline and centralize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u13	It is not just competition in the field of resources, indeed. The ROAZ in Brabant indicates to have stock for one more day. But I also mention the enormous dilemmas that are coming towards the employees. Do you have to go to work or not? What are the risks? How do I prevent me from infecting my sick partner or the people I care for? So let us ask the cabinet to clarify this as soon as possible: a fair distribution of resources, but also instructions for the staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u14	I think the cabinet heard that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u16	Madam President. Every week we debate here, there are many more deaths to be regretted: people who could not win the fight against the coronavirus at home, in the hospital or in the nursing home, the elderly in the nursing homes, but also 50s and 60s who were in the middle of life and sometimes one or two weeks later are buried in small circles. It's heartbreaking. Fortunately, the growth in the number of hospital admissions is now flattening, but the peak is still coming. There's still a lot of time ahead of us. If we're gonna extinguish this virus, we're gonna have to test, test and test it again, both on the virus and on the antibodies. At last, the cabinet is going to bet on that too. Of course, we should have done that before then, we would have been further ahead, but at least they are going to do it now. Those tests should also be used much wider than just for care workers. The more people are tested, the better. Other countries such as South Korea have been doing so for a long time and have achieved great results. According to economists, it is also the best thing for our economy: mass testing and people who are infected, isolate and alert their contacts. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to use an app for that. As far as PVV is concerned, this can be done, but only under the following conditions. The app must operate on the basis of anonymous data. There should be no transfer of personal data to the government. It must be transparent through open source software. Use preferably on a voluntary basis. Mr. Chairman. There are still reports that there are significant shortages of protective equipment, such as masks for care workers in nursing homes, hospitals, disability care, but also for care workers who come to the house at home, such as home care, domestic care and community care. It is perhaps the greatest disgrace of this moment that the cabinet lets the employees in the care work unprotected. They feel strongly abandoned, because they must be in danger of getting infected or infecting others unprotected doing their important work. That is irresponsible and dangerous. Minister De Jonge offended these care heroes by denying this problem yesterday at his press conference. How dare you do that, Mr. Secretary? May I give you a few quotes from care workers? "I go to work every day with fear." "Spiritally, I'm gonna die." "I play Russian roulette here." "All you can do is hope you don't pick up or pass on anything." Thus some caregivers. Where does the Minister have the guts to deny this? Employees even doubt that they can still work. We need to help these people right now. We can't do this anymore. Finally, carry out my Chamberwide motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Then the nursing homes. Unfortunately, that had already become death homes since the cuts, but there are now many more places where there is no hold. Corona hits a lot of elderly people, but what we see now in a number of places is shocking. If one resident is infected with corona in one department, often the entire department, including the elderly who have not yet been infected, is cut off from the rest. It is then, as a president of an organization said, waiting for Grim Reaper to pick them up. I hope, however, that the cabinet agrees with me that this is not possible. I ask the Minister to ensure that these healthy elderly people are separated from the elderly with corona. Mr President, I will conclude. The Netherlands is having a hard time. Our families are having a hard time. Our companies are having a hard time. Our economy is getting hit. But we're the strongest people in the world. We're resilient and energetic. And we're gonna beat this. The more discipline we have now with staying home, the sooner we get our freedom back. So also today I say to everyone in the Netherlands: strength and please, hold on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. We're in a quiet week before Easter. In churches but also on the street you can see at this time that "silence" should be taken very literally this year. This silence also conceals loneliness and sadness, children in risky family situations, the risk of domestic violence, but certainly vulnerable elderly people in nursing homes. They are being duplicated at this time and by this crisis. We saw this morning's mortality rates, the high risk that they run through this virus, but also the feeling of being alone and abandoned. We cannot fight this loneliness by exposing them more to this deadly virus, but at the same time this loneliness in itself is also a dangerous virus, especially if this crisis continues for months to come. I ask the cabinet whether consideration is being given to innovative ways of keeping life bearable for these people in nursing homes and in industry organisations. I would like to have a reaction or talk about it as well. Then there are the messages from nursing homes, disability care and home care about the lack of protective equipment. Last night's letter tells us about the enormous numbers that are now being ordered and the millions of production that is being started in the Netherlands this week. But at the same time, the scarcity is now. Can the Minister indicate what is happening now to divide the scarcity, but also to resolve it in the coming weeks? Then there's the sounds of the economy. In the short term, there could be a revival of the economy and society. The sometimes called contradiction between health and the economy is a false contradiction. We heard Mr Asscher say that last weekend and yesterday the Prime Minister too. Too often false expectations are raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u19	I just heard the CDA colleague talk about protective equipment. He says the cabinet needs to solve the scarcity in the next few weeks. Do you not agree with me that your Minister, Mr Delors, is a servant of the Crown, but of your party today, yesterday in fact, my motion from a few weeks ago, which you also voted for and who said that the problem needs to be resolved? Do you agree with me that he should arrange for all those people in care to finally get their protective equipment this week? Do you agree with me that if you say that it is only a few weeks from now and that he will take care of it, a lot of people in the care are at risk of being infected not only by themselves and their family members at home, but also by the people they work for in the care of the elderly or in the care of the neighbourhood? Isn't this the biggest disgrace right now? Can't you push me a little harder towards the cabinet that they won't have to take care of it in a couple of weeks, but that they have to take care of it yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u20	We have also known for a few weeks how big these problems are. If I read in last night's letter about an order of 30 million mouth caps that has been done and the production of 7 million in the Netherlands in the next few weeks that has started, then you can also say that at the moment worked at a huge pace to solve the problems. I also wish we'd solved it with a fingernip, but that's not realistic. At the same time, therefore, I am also asking questions about the problems outside hospitals, outside the ic's: in nursing homes, in home care and in disability care. I agree with Mr Asscher's questions on coordination. Hence the question of what is now being done to deal with these problems and to ensure that there is sufficient. We need to be realistic, because there is currently a shortage. Hence the question of how this scarcity is distributed fairly and resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u21	People have nothing to do with the distribution of scarcity. People don't have much use for orders either. The cabinet should have had that in place weeks ago. I'm surprised they didn't start to build those stocks in January/February before this crisis started for the cabinet at all. You and I have it easy: we are standing here. But you're gonna have to be a nurse, a nurse in a nursing home and help someone who probably has corona. You should come to someone's house as a neighborhood nurse who's coughing and tasting that you're dying to help out from your professionalism. And then they hear the representative of the CDA here in the Chamber say, "Well, there's a lot ordered" and "Minister, go divide it." It needs to be arranged now. Those people are in danger every minute. Now go push that minister more and say, "It needs to be arranged. If it is not today, then tomorrow."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u22	Those problems are great and precisely because of the concerns of these employees, who want to do their job well but also safely, I ask this question. Mr Wilders also refers to reserves that should have been there by now. When it comes to the future of care, I think that this point, but also many other questions, such as the one about vaccine development, which we have had together over the last few weeks, will be addressed. It will raise many of these questions in the future. Now the reality is that it is necessary to ensure that the scarcity is distributed as fairly as possible, but also that there is more entry and production in the shortest possible time. We must also ensure, as the letter states, that this scarcity is resolved as quickly as possible by means of safe re-use. Mr. Chairman. I was at the false expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mrs. Marijnissen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I am listening to what Mr Heerma says and at the same time I think you already have the answer. You ask the cabinet: what happens now? We received an extensive letter last night, and I believe it was more than 40 pages of paper, and it says what is happening now. The problem is, of course, that it is too little. It's not a solution for now, and those caregivers are working now, they have to make that choice now, they have to do with the Russian roulette feeling when they go to work: no idea if I'm infected, no idea if I'm infected, no idea if I might be infected with those vulnerable people. My question is not so much what Mr Heerma is asking the cabinet, but what Mr Heerma is saying today to those care workers who are now facing these dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u25	These horrible dilemmas and these concerns reach me, too, from all sectors in fact. That is the reason for putting it here in my text. That is why I also referred to Mr Asscher's question for now, if there are signs that this scarcity is not being distributed fairly enough, that coordination will have to take place. I do read sentences about this in the letter, but I would like to hear from the Minister how that is done, so that it is distributed as fairly as possible. For example, we also need to look carefully at who needs which protective equipment, because there are also signs that there is a shortage of protective equipment in the wrong places, causing a shortage elsewhere. That sort of thing will have to be addressed now. In addition, if you are talking about the many millions of production and an even greater number of millions of orders, more will have to be done as soon as possible to deal with this scarcity at all. I have just said to Mr Wilders: I would prefer to snap my fingers now and it is gone, but the reality is that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u26	Everyone understands that snapping your fingers doesn't work. It's just that this isn't the first time we've discussed this in this Chamber. Since the day we are in this crisis, at least we have raised that issue of the lack of protective material and we have called for it to be produced ourselves. That's gonna happen now, but it won't be for two weeks. Yeah, what are our caregivers supposed to do in the meantime? We are still dealing with the RIVM guidelines, for example, which say: if there is a volatile contact or if you can keep more than 1.5 metres away, no protective equipment is needed. Can you imagine that just drives caregivers crazy? What do you mean you don't get infected like that? How do you think you can keep that five feet away when you're working in health care? We're right to slap our caregivers and send them in the lead in the fight against the corona virus. The least we can do here is arrange for them to at least be able to do their job safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u27	I cannot and will not deny the concerns these care workers have. Nor can I deny that the SP Group has drawn attention to this from the outset. But we're reading the letter and we're putting it next to the letters we've received in the last few weeks. We shouldn't, given the letters, evoke the image that nothing happened either. A lot's happened. Within a few weeks millions of mouth caps will be produced in the Netherlands. That production is now starting. In my view, that is a speed we had not seen before this crisis of a government. At the same time, I am also getting the distress signals about the scarcity of now. I also get the sounds that this division is not going well. Hence my question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u28	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u29	Then there is the false expectations that are being raised and the false opposition that the Prime Minister mentioned, and also Mr Asscher in Buitenhof last Sunday. At the moment, I see the Netherlands as a country with a very severe injury. We've been seriously injured together, and actually, the whole world is. As in sport, here too, rehabilitation will have to be done with patience and understanding. If you go too fast, you're back to square one. Then we are back in the extremely dangerous situation in which we have been in the last few weeks, and we must avoid that. That is why, unfortunately, balancing will remain on a thin cord. I think that testing will be crucial, but also the policy of search, test & protect, which is contained in the letter. The announcement of apps yesterday led to turmoil in many places. That was also mentioned here in the debate. I understand that's happening, and it makes sense. The cabinet rightly stresses the importance of privacy. But the question that also arises is whether it is possible at all to start up slowly in a sensible and safe way without using apps like this. The letter announces further elaboration, but can the Minister explain it here? How does he see this in the next few weeks? This morning the risk of slackening and underestimating has also been mentioned, especially as the figures on hospitalisations and ic's seem to be getting a little more positive, fortunately. But there will have to be strict control when things go wrong. I have two specific questions. Is it true that if the forthcoming Easter weekend shows that border crossings are going to fail, then security regions will be able to and will close down? My second question concerns an issue on which I believe the SP has already asked written questions. We've seen footage from Eindhoven Airport, of planes packed with seasonal workers. Has anyone been acting on this yet? Such unsafe situations with seasonal workers should not be prevented. I would also like to add my voice to Mr Dijkhoff's question on seasonal work and ornamental farming. This sector, but also the cultural sector and the festivals, does not seem to be sufficiently protected by the package that is now in place. What can the cabinet do for sectors such as ornamental farming? Mr President, I will conclude. Last week, the Minister announced that he would make 10 million available for that international initiative to develop a vaccine. The letter we received last night said, "at least 10 million." It also says that 1.5 billion would be needed. Should we interpret this "at least" in such a way that the cabinet is seriously considering making more funds available for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u31	Mr President, a final sentence. This time requires a lot of all of us, but we must and will stick with each other. "Hang in there," as my colleague Wilders said. We struggle, but together we will overcome this crisis as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u33	Mr. Chairman. With every new week of this crisis, new insights, solutions, problems, hopeful signals and deep disappointments will come. This week is marked by a new paradox. Because while the newspapers are filled with hope for a return to normal life, the hospital beds are still filled with people fighting for hope of life itself. The first calls for perspective, the second calls for transparency. My group appreciates the speedy results achieved by the cabinet together with doctors and nurses. The measures seem to have a cautious effect. I hope we never achieve the black scenario, but we must be prepared for the worst. Ethical questions stare us in the face. Doctors must not stand in the cold. Politics is ultimately responsible. When will the protocol, the hold for doctors in the black screenplay, be ready? A silent disaster is now taking place outside the scope of intensive care. In the nursing homes there is a constant lack of protective equipment. The number of infections is growing enormously. The loneliness is great. Also worrying is the fact that people with life-threatening complaints other than corona no longer report to the emergency services. I ask the Minister: how does he stop these worrying developments? I'd like a response. While the minister takes care of the sick, the cabinet should also think of all those people who see their livelihood in danger. The economic support package is a blessing for many, but not yet for everyone. A number of students are getting into trouble. They pay their rent and tuition fees, but often lose their normal income from their side jobs and do not receive the education they are used to. Is there a view of this group? How can the Cabinet come to their aid? Many people also threaten to fall between shore and ship without a permanent contract. I am thinking, for example, of stage artists. They have lost their income, but are not always entitled to unemployment benefits or self-employed benefits. Can the cabinet promise that it will look at all the possibilities of helping this group with income support? Because something fundamental is at stake here. In times of crisis, we don't just paint our art depots and paintings. Not the living arts, then, is it? Which brings me back to the paradox of this new corona week. Because while doctors and the minister are preparing for the most difficult kind of ethical decisions, many would prefer to break out of the pinching armor of rules as soon as possible. We all long for real contact with family and friends, for an evening out, for the sound, colour and rhythm of life. But that won't happen overnight. Can the cabinet therefore come up with a roadmap? The most important question is: how can we safely protect our free way of life? If we are going to use apps, can the Minister assure us that he is setting the right conditions for these technologies? For D66 it must have added value, be temporary and voluntary, safe, and in accordance with privacy law. When will the investigation into the infectious effects of children be completed, so that the cabinet can decide on schools and childcare? Will cafés be able to welcome their guests back on a terrace to a limited extent? How can people safely come face to face with the treasures of our art and history? In this black age, people give the political confidence to fight this crisis. What they are asking for is perspective and transparency. That's also what I'm asking the Cabinet to offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u34	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u35	Thank you, Mr President. It's a week of contrasts. While we feel a bit of relief about the flattening of the growth of the ic-beds, we see that the infections and deaths in the nursing homes and at home are high. We are talking carefully about how we can get out of the crisis in the long term, while our doctors and nurses are wondering how much longer they are going to keep doing this at all. Also outside intensive care, the pressure on our health care providers is increasing. Nursing homes, general practitioners, home and youth care and disability care are alarming the lack of protective equipment and the imminent shortage of medicines. That's how I spoke to a nurse this week who works in a rehabilitation ward in a nursing home for people who got fired from the ICU. The beds are ready but are largely empty due to a lack of oxygen tanks and mouth caps. More needs to be done to overcome these shortages and to deal with problems outside the hospital. That is why I ask the Cabinet whether it is prepared to set up national coordination for care outside the hospital which is not aimed at consultation but at the practical distribution of scarce resources. And shouldn't nursing staff have more protective equipment faster to prevent rapid contamination? Mr. Chairman. I also made this heart cry this morning at the technical briefing: we need to put our nurses in a better position. They must take part in this crisis. We hear that too little happens in too many places. They're not on all the hospital crisis teams, nursing homes. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. We're beginning to realize that this virus is gonna be with us for a long time. It is not yet time for measures to be phased out. But rightly, Prime Minister Rutte said yesterday that the cabinet is already thinking about possible scenarios, about a way to the new normal. We need to think ahead. This new normal that has to be introduced in the long term is obviously about controlling the virus, but it is also about creating space for other aspects of life, such as education and more activity. I therefore have the following questions. Who is currently working on these scenarios? Are all the different expertises represented, from virologists to behavioral experts to economists? In what way do the scenarios contribute to the vitalization of the economy? In doing so, does the government also make a strong commitment to a solidarity-based and sustainable economy? How is the Chamber included in the development of these scenarios? The use of apps has already been mentioned. It is also extremely important for GroenLinks that privacy is guaranteed when we use apps in a broader approach. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This crisis shows that fighting the virus is a global challenge. Therefore, under the guidance of the World Health Organisation, a single pool should be set up to gather all relevant knowledge and patents to combat the corona virus. Costa Rica has already proposed this. It is very good that the Director-General of the World Health Organisation also expressed his support for this yesterday. We have also seen the positive effects of such a drug pool in the case of HIV and tuberculosis. In May, the annual meeting of the World Health Assembly will be held. It seems that the cabinet is cautiously positive about the proposal of a pool, but the Netherlands could do even more. The Netherlands can play a leading role in ensuring that this WTO meeting decides in May to establish such a covid pool. Is the cabinet prepared to show leadership within and outside Europe? This is in everyone's interest because it makes the medicines and a vaccine against corona available and affordable for everyone. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister: can he explain in our Chamber why he is refusing to include a small group of very vulnerable refugees from mainly single children from the Greek camps? Our congregations are prepared to do this. The countries around us are prepared to do this. We cannot stand on the sidelines heartlessly. That doesn't fit the Prime Minister either. I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u36	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u37	Thank you, Mr President. We are very concerned about the situation outside hospitals: in disability care, home care, ggz-youth care, but certainly also in nursing homes. You can see there's a silent disaster going on there. The mortality rates are twice as high as we thought. We heard this morning that 40% of nursing homes are already infected and locked. So all the pressure goes to our caregivers. My question to the Minister is: do we have an adequate picture of this silent disaster? Do we still have the idea that the policy for nursing homes is the right one? We also have great concerns about the lack of protective equipment for our caregivers. It is the people who are now, for us, taking the lead in the fight against corona. The least we can do is send them out safely. Those caregivers saw yesterday, when they turned on their TV, a press conference where they heard the minister say this isn't happening yet. I ask the Minister: what was he thinking? What was he thinking? How dare he even think about saying something like that? This morning in the newspaper we could read how carers experience it going to work as Russian roulette: I have no idea if I'm infected or if I'm infected with someone else. But I also wonder if the Minister has heard the story that I have told about my own neighbor here, for example. She works in the nursing home in the neighborhood. Infections with corona and insufficient protection materials..................................................................................................................................................................................................... Fortunately, she came back from the hospital this weekend, where she was on oxygen. But what does the Minister say to my neighbor and to all those caregivers who are currently being made for these impossible choices? Mr. Chairman. We know there's a lot of hard work going on. Of course. Everyone can see that. But it is simply not enough at this point. It's gotta be better. We have often asked about the possibilities for production in our own country. That's what's about to happen. We heard Van Rijn say that 4.5 million mouth caps are needed every week. My question is therefore whether this production will be sufficient. How are we gonna organize that? What about the other sectors? We have asked for this a number of times. For example, are there any protective equipment in the chemical industry or in the Defense Department that could possibly be used in the care sector? Is that inventory done by now? What did it get you? And are there any protective materials available for care? Because we cannot accept that, as a general practitioner said in Nieuwsuur last week, the only corona patients he currently sees in his practice are health care professionals. This has to stop. Mr. Chairman. What we are talking about now is the so-called exit strategy. For us, the main thing is that this exit strategy organises solidarity between people and retains the sense of solidarity and solidarity that we now feel in our society. I ask the Prime Minister if he can tell us more about the possible scenarios for that exit strategy. Because the virus affects everyone, whether you're Prime Minister of the United Kingdom or taxi driver in Brabant. The virus doesn't look at income and position. But the impact of this crisis is very different for people. Take the people with the precarious contracts, temporary workers who are now the first to fly out, but also the migrant workers and young people. They're very vulnerable right now. The same applies to those who now have to work in the so-called vital professions: our caregivers, agents, parcel delivery workers, drivers. They cannot work safely at home; they must continue to work with danger to their own health. We ask a lot of these people. The least we can do is organise solidarity between people. But this requires different political choices than have been made in recent decades. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. It is high time to say goodbye to shareholder capitalism and arrange for everyone to have their fair share. It is high time to say goodbye to big bonuses at the top, and organize that wages go up and there will be a millionaire tax. Not cutting back on the public sector, but seeing what is all of us as an investment. Mr. Chairman. This time, and after that, calls for solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u38	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u39	Mr. Chairman. Tonight Jews all over the world celebrate the liberation from slavery, the exodus from Egypt, Passover. Coming weekend is Easter, which many Christians attach great importance to. Yet it is celebrated differently, not only because it is quiet, but also because the virus strikes so hard. We read that of the 120 residents of Beth Shalom died in Buitenveldert 15, and that of the 128 Sisters of Love died in Tilburg 10. That's what's going on. This morning we also saw in the briefing how the virus is taking hold in the nursing homes. The most vulnerable people are truly terribly affected. So my question to the cabinet is: is it not time for an emergency plan to better protect nursing homes? Is it not time to apply the policy of the Amphia Hospital in Breda, in which employees should not come to work with minor complaints, to protect our vulnerable elderly in the nursing homes? Then there's the protective equipment. They were rightly mentioned by all the speakers. I see a tremendous amount of work being done on both the introduction of protective equipment and its production. But in the meantime, you see practices that we shouldn't accept here. I hear from BrabantTake care of sending carers to patients soon, because there are no protective equipment for the employees. ROAZ reports there's still a day's supply. Coordination with regard to hospitals and ic capacity has been achieved at national level. Compliments for that. It seems to me that it is high time to introduce this now in relation to the provision of protective equipment, but also to help the staff. They face terrible dilemmas. They often get conflicting signals about questions like "what do you do with complaints?" And "what difference does it make if you have people around you who are vulnerable?" I don't think that's possible anymore. I believe that today we must decide on central coordination, on direction, so that everyone who needs it most can have protection equipment immediately. Mr. Chairman. I also ask the cabinet about the state of the testing. Because, yes, it's important that we start thinking about exit strategies. That app can play a role in this, provided that it is voluntary, temporary, anonymous and in the hands of the government rather than a private company. But you also need testing capacity to know where the virus is spreading again among the population. The third point I would very much like to bring to the attention of the cabinet is the regular care, that delayed wave of care. Policemen tell me they've been getting a lot of CPR calls lately, and cardiologists tell me they don't see a patient anymore. That combination must be of concern to us. I would be happy if at the next press conference, which has become a Tuesday tradition, a clear appeal could be made: people, do not keep walking with those complaints; do not delay it, because that too is too dangerous. We have to realize that people themselves are taking huge risks, because they're afraid to go to the hospital or because they felt like there's no place. Regular care is at stake. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet to act on that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerma said it nicely: there are also silent vulnerable people who are suffering from the current crisis. That can be because of lack of attention, because they are lonely when there can no longer be a visitor. Also think of the horrible image of a funeral where you can't have the people you wanted to see there. But sometimes it's physical. I hear there's a huge increase in reports of violence behind the front door. In Friesland it has increased by 50%. In France and Spain, you saw similar figures. It's so hard to make this talkable anyway, and it's even more difficult when the abusive partner is in the same house all the time. So I ask the Cabinet to take up the approach they have developed in France and Spain. This means a code word, an emergency number and the reservation of rooms, for example in vacant hotels, to catch people who need to catch their breath in another place. Have an eye on the vulnerable, because........................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u40	I have a question, not about Jort Kelder, but about Mayor Aboutaleb. In his capacity as chairman of the security region last week, when it was about banning religious meetings, he said that the Constitution could not do that, but that the need breaks, so the Constitution doesn't really count for a moment. On the same day, I saw Mr Asscher voting in favour of a motion by Mr Wilders to ban religious gatherings. The government said: it is unconstitutional. I wonder whether Mr Asscher also thinks that we should comply with the Constitution in all measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u41	Oh, yes, I do. I think it's a fair question, too. Only, if the government says "we interpret the Constitution in such a way that you can hold a divine service up to 30 people," that is a choice. That is an interpretation of the Constitution. I explained Mr Wilders' motion in this way, and that is why I support it: interpret the Constitution more strictly and say, for example, 'up to ten people' or 'up to five people'. It is indeed an article in the Los Angeles Times, but unfortunately there are also examples of this in the Netherlands that, when you come together with 29's in the church and sings psalms, you run the risk of getting infected yourself and then infecting others. Just at this time of protection of vulnerable people, I find, and I see that countless churches, almost all churches adhere to it, as well as organisations of other religions: uphold the Constitution, respect the Constitution, but interpret it in such a way that we protect people. That seems almost a Christian commandment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u42	We can certainly find each other when it comes to clarifying what protecting vulnerable people means. That is why I said to myself, for example, that it is okay if you do not go to the border, but look at how few people can allow you to continue a service. That's not the point of our disagreement. But that is what it is when, instead of starting from the separation between church and state, we have our Constitution: Article 6 and even Article 103, which deals with the exceptions in a state of emergency, sets out guidelines for ecclesiastical authorities, when you suddenly cross a line and say: we are going to sort it out right away. Then you really go beyond the framework of the Constitution. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u43	I can support that remark. Only, if you say, as many churches do, that you need about five people to provide an online service, let's agree that that is the border. Let's protect the small group of people who aren't sensitive to your call from themselves and then lay the line there. The Constitution does not say: it must be at least 30 people. The Constitution states that you must respect that right. But no right in the Constitution, except the right to life, is free of interpretation. So there's always limits here. In a state of emergency, I think you have an obligation to draw that line. That is why I supported this motion. He didn't make it. But I have seen that the cabinet, with my support, has made the appeal to the churches and other religious organizations: keep it as small as possible, because it saves lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u44	Thank you, Mr. Asscher. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u45	Hang in there. That was the message from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health to us. Thank you for that. But I would also like to say this to them: hang in there. Because this is a long-term battle. But even more important is to say that to all those wonderful people in the care: hang in there. We still need them very much for a long time. But then we have to make sure that they can keep up. The stress, the tragedies, the need to inform family members by telephone: it's chopping in. Diederik Gommers warned about burnouts this morning. We now see that hospitals and institutions organise their own aftercare and that the national organisation for trauma care, ARQ, offers specialized help. That's good for the short term. But also in the long term, we need to pay attention to mental care for patients, their families, relatives, care workers, carers, ggz patients and people with mental problems due to this crisis. Is the Cabinet prepared to take this down? And what role can prevention play in this? If we don't do something, we're gonna have a society with a lot of PTSD. Madam President. Last week, I called attention to mental care. I would like to thank the Minister for taking up this point in his letter. People really need this, especially in nursing care and certainly in the dying phase. At this stage there is more room for family visitors. It would be good if this space would also be available for spiritual caretakers, for pastors and priests, especially now that many institutions themselves no longer employ a spiritual caretaker. Does the Minister wish to call on institutions to do so? Then there are a few brief questions. One. I agree with the questions on protective equipment. These are needed in acute care and nursing care, but also in disability care, home care and general practitioners. When will there be more clarity about the distribution? Two. What priority will be given to testing policy when we move on to the 1.5-metre society? Will there be a RIVM test protocol for serological testing for specific groups? Three. On this point, there are many questions about the app that the VWS Minister spoke about yesterday. More questions have already been asked. Especially when it comes to our privacy, there are many questions. Will the Minister state again why this app is crucial and how our privacy remains protected? Four. The economic package. It is good that 90% of the wage costs will be reimbursed, but what if a large part of the costs are operating costs that go through this lockdown while the turnover is nil? I am thinking specifically of ornamental plants. Others have gone before me. If continuous operating costs are not reimbursed in this sector, many companies will still fall in the next few weeks. I specifically ask the Cabinet to draw up a scheme for this sector that will help large and small businesses in this sector. I would like to comment on this point. Five. A group that our group is particularly concerned about is women and men in prostitution. Women disappear from behind the windows to home prostitution, with all the risks. How can this group be helped and how can online advertisements for home prostitution be stopped? Six. I would like an update of the European debate on mutual assistance. It is good that we have offered the aid and that we show solidarity, but it is also good that the Netherlands is drawing a line at Eurobonds. Seven, finally. There is also a threat of a humanitarian disaster among refugees on the Greek islands. What is the Netherlands doing to help Greece and the people on the islands? Madam President. Friday is the Good Friday, the Day of Suffering, and then it sounds Everlasting, have mercy on us, Lord. That's a prayer for all those sick people, for people in care, for all of us. The beauty of Easter is that it will also be Sunday morning, the day of the resurrection, the day of new hope. In that science, I'm only gonna say it one more time: hang in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you, Mr President. This morning in the briefing, the Inspector-General of the Health Inspectorate raised an important question: what is "human" now, in these times, with all the choices we have had to make? And what is "doing good" for the people who work in the nursing homes? With all their heart they want to take care of the people there, but they are also afraid that they are infecting the people in the nursing homes because there are too few protective materials. Mr. Chairman. So the Animal Party was also really surprised that yesterday the Minister said in the press conference: the question of whether you should do your job unprotected is not playing now. That was the question. And we've already found that there aren't enough protective materials. So can the Minister take that back? When we asked about it last week, he said: there is now a distribution model. That still assumes scarcity. I get that. We need to eliminate this scarcity as soon as possible. But we also heard that the distribution model that was mentioned last week needs to be discussed again. How's that going? Because those concerns are, of course, really big and we can do my job without being protected by the responsibility associated with that question. Do not leave it to the people themselves. So I think the Minister should give the answer. Mr. Chairman. I hope there will be room to go back to a little humanity. People who have a lover in a nursing home say, "You know what, I'm just gonna sit in that room with you and then we're gonna quarantine together so we can at least be together." Is there room for that? Is there room for intermediate forms? You don't want to infect each other, but being cut off is so profound, I'm asking the Cabinet to see what possibilities there are in nursing homes, even at home, in ggz and in disability care. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals is also concerned about drug shortages. Can the cabinet tell us what's going on with that now? I would also like to draw your attention to the medicines that are needed in palliative care. Then the pressure on the care as a whole. Sometimes a little bit is spoken in sports metaphors. I do not really like that, but it is said that there is not one but two marathons. Because we now have the pressure on the ic's and later on the delayed care, but there is also a lot of care needed at home and in nursing homes. What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that the people who have to provide all this care get through it? Then the disaster scenario we were closer to last week than we are now. Fortunately, the curve seems to weaken so much that it is a bit out of the picture, but it remains very important that we have a clear picture of the structure of decision making. I see that now in the Roadmap pandemic, the medical specialists assume that the decision, if necessary, to go to the crisis situation is taken either by the Minister or by the inspector-general of the inspection. I think it should just be the minister. I believe that this should be a political decision that the cabinet takes and for which the Chamber should also take co-responsibility. Does the Cabinet agree with us? Mr. Chairman. There have been a lot of concerns in the area of privacy for some time now. We've already noticed click lines are open. We also saw people wondering, what are those drones doing above my head? The adagium "take care of each other" must of course remain the fine "take care of each other" and not become: let's check each other out. In that light, the Party for Animals is very concerned about the intention to work with apps. It is good that the cabinet says that privacy must be guaranteed, but the government does not have a very good reputation in this area. I understand from privacy experts that such an app with guaranteeing privacy might be possible. Can the cabinet promise that independent experts will be invited to consider this issue and that any decision to do so will not be taken without codecision by the Chamber? The Dutch Data Protection Authority is now saying: if it cannot be done anonymously, there must be a change of law. If it can't be anonymous, it's just not an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u48	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last night, at the request of 50PLUS, the cabinet made it clear, even in writing, that it does not accept only the use of an age limit for admission to the ic. Thank you for that. Appreciate it. Earlier reports of this caused great fear in my constituency. We talked about that when we were still afraid of a shortage of beds. To prevent that, the cabinet works hard, just like all the people in the care. But we all have to cooperate. Stay at home as much as possible, keep your distance and follow all further guidelines! 50PLUS is impressed with the realization of 2,400 ic-beds. We even read that we are looking at further enlargement. 50PLUS would therefore ask the cabinet to look very closely at the personnel side. We've been asking so many of our people in healthcare. How long can this be done in a responsible manner, especially if it takes much longer and capacity is further increased? Is experienced care personnel now being accelerated for working on the ic? This morning's commitment by Mr Gommers to relax policy and allow family more during the death phase on an ic is very important for 50PLUS: it is a humane farewell. Last week, we asked for attention to be paid to the many consequences of delayed non-corona care. We await the first set-up, which will be published later this week by the Dutch Healthcare Authority. 50PLUS wants a very clear public campaign to encourage care avoidrs to go to the doctor or the hospital. Before this crisis began, there was a shortage of staff in care, a severe shortage. In the coming period we will need a lot of care staff, for corona care, for regular care and for care for the elderly. By now, thousands of people with care backgrounds have offered to help. 50PLUS is very positive about the National Care Class: the online learning environment where large groups of people with care affinity, but without care background, are trained in a short time for supportive and non-complex care tasks. This is of great value for elderly care, for example. For whom is this training available and in what way is it brought to the attention of the public? 50PLUS sees opportunities to deploy airline and public transport employees in the healthcare field. Many of them sit at home, but have affinity with caring for people. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the employers? We already saw a first positive response from the minister of VWS to an initiative by KLM employees: blauhelpt.nl. Each of us is receiving signals. Everyone has already mentioned today that care workers often have to do their job unprotected. That's gonna have to change very quickly. The Minister's letter contains all kinds of actions, but there are still a lot of uncertainties and expectations. Can the Chamber be informed of this quickly and confidentially if necessary? 50PLUS wants a response from the Minister to MantelzorgNL's call to see a caregiver as a colleague in the care, a colleague who gets a clear transfer, a thorough instruction and access to protective equipment. What impression does the minister of daily life have under the current conditions in nursing homes? Finally, 50PLUS awaits further steps regarding the deployment of apps. We were already in favour of this, but today we have one question: what effect does that have on some of my constituents, who do not have a smartphone at all? Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u50	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u51	Hope. Who doesn't look like there's something hopeful to report after so many gloomy figures about infections, illness and deaths? We are therefore grateful that all strict measures seem to have an effect. But the Prime Minister also spoke true words yesterday when he said that there is still a long way to go. It's a long way to go for anyone who's been so badly affected by the virus. We continue to sympathize with them. There is still a great deal of demand from healthcare workers in the coming period. My question is: what is happening to ensure that they stand up? Can they count on them getting pay for work? In fact, the lack of protective equipment is alarming today from a number of points of view. The efforts are considerable, but unfortunately the result is not yet good enough. It brings people into conscience; in the neighbourhoods and in the care of the disabled. In nursing homes, in particular, there are quite rightly many concerns that care workers themselves are a source of contamination. My question is therefore: when will this better redistribution be completed? Can separate accommodation, for example in a hotel, be arranged for care workers who wish to do so? We hear these experiences from abroad. The fact that the enormous pressure on ic-capacity is now getting a little less heavy is a sign of hope, but no reason to sit back immediately. It is good to think about what measures are going to be the most difficult in the longer term and therefore to ask for relief as a first step. I am thinking of overworked carers, of residents of nursing homes who have to miss their loved ones, of entrepreneurs who risk going bankrupt because they fall apart from the regulations. Ornamental cultivation has already been mentioned today. What intelligent solutions can be devised to relieve this pressure? I added the word "intelligent," because I notice that there is broad support for intelligent action these days. Mr. Chairman. We are well aware that the light will not suddenly jump on green again. A step-by-step approach is needed to return to normal life. Because of the corona measures we lost a lot of freedom of movement in a short time, freedom to see family and friends, freedom to be present at funerals of loved ones and to offer comfort to relatives, freedom to come together in the church. Especially in this time of Good Friday and Easter that pain is felt again. I agree with Mr Segers' questions about the mental caregivers. Does the government always recognise the degree of restriction of fundamental rights when deciding on the continuation of the measures? Developing useful apps also requires a weighting of opportunities and risks and safeguards against unnecessary degradation of privacy. Would it not be an idea to ask the Council of State for an opinion on the legal aspects of measures taken and planned? Mr. Chairman. Hope, who doesn't look like? That's what I started with, and I want to end with that, too. Concerns and sorrows can lie on the heart like a stone and bury all hope underneath it, as once Jesus' followers sad and without hope remained behind after His crucifixion. But grief and grief didn't have the last word. It was Easter. The stone of the grave was rolled away and He rose up. Therefore, despite all the pain and sorrow in these days, there still sounds a message of hope and comfort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u52	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Mr Azarkan has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talk about the corona crisis every week. And every time it's hard to see people losing loved ones, people fighting for their lives, people becoming socially isolated. It cannot be stressed often enough that we appreciate the people in the care, all the aid workers and the whole of the Netherlands who are now responding to the measures. For the first time in a long time, there are indications of a cautious beginning of a way out of this crisis. The influx of corona patients into intensive care is flattening and the number of people in intensive care also seems to decrease for the first time. But concerns about capacity remain. DENK is proud that the care staff has realized the scaling up to 2,400 intensivecarebeds. The government's letter states that an even more scaling-up is being looked at, but can this be done? Is that realistic? Mr Gommers said this morning that the maximum of 2,400 is actually the maximum. Shouldn't we bet on preventing it from coming to this? I know that's what's happening, and I have faith in it, too. We can see that the care staff is giving themselves 200%. I'm asking the government to indicate what it's doing to help these people, to protect them from burnouts. We also have great concerns about the older nursing homes where there is corona. All measures are aimed at protecting this group of vulnerable elderly people. It is hard to believe that 900 of the 2,500 nursing homes now have corona infections. Why aren't these employees and residents being tested preventively? What about the test capacity per day? When will the maximum of 29,000 cases be achieved? Why does the government not want to deploy laboratories from research institutes and companies? We really need to scale up the test capacity. Mr. Chairman. Then the app to map who has been in contact with an infection and the app to monitor the symptoms of a corona patient. I'm asking the government how many people have to participate in this before this really works. What about the most vulnerable group of older people, who often don't use an app? The group with a lot of contact with children still doesn't use it enough. Shouldn't we also have that app, allowing and collecting the information checked by a group of judges, so that we don't commit violations later because we are acting against all privacy and also against the rules and laws? Mr. Chairman. Last week I made the point of the taxi drivers and the market merchants in food, fruit and vegetables. We are pleased that in accordance with the DENK motion, the government now indicates that taxi drivers are also entitled to the fee of €4,000. Dissuade last week, implemented by now. Market people are still unable to participate and apply for the €4,000, while in many municipalities the markets are closed and thus these entrepreneurs suffer a great deal of income loss. Why isn't this group being met? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a far-reaching theme for many Dutch Muslims. I'll come back to it again. It is extremely difficult for that group of people to bury their deceased in the country of origin according to religious regulations. Morocco doesn't cooperate with that. I got a call this weekend from a good friend from Tiel who said he'd been moaning with his cousin's body for two days. In the end, he found a place for his nephew in Rotterdam. I'm really sorry about that. I know Aboutaleb indicated to be generous in that and that that space is there, but there isn't much space in many places. I find that painful and inhumane and I wonder why the Chamber does not support my motion. In such cases, the government must also show solidarity with the Dutch Muslims who are in pain, who have paid money for years, who have not only lost that money, but who cannot be buried in a religious way. Is the government prepared to show solidarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u55	Mr. Chairman. We have advocated maximum preparation from the outset. We could have known since January that the virus would be heading our way, but unfortunately those preparations were getting underway far too late. Then, when the epidemic began, we immediately advocated the introduction of a short break, a short lockdown to get a picture of who was infected and how widespread the virus was. We could then use the time needed to build up test capacity and ic capacity and to store enough mouth caps and breathing equipment, so that within a few weeks you can go back to a controlled phasing-out of the measures and return to freedom, hand in hand with certainty about public health. This is how we saw it before us. If we had acted earlier, we would probably have been out again or at least on our way to the exit. However, we do not want to look back too much at the moment. It'll come later. We want to be as constructive as possible in the interests of the country. The lockdown came. Rutte introduced it two weeks ago, but it is still quite unclear whether the time that has now been won has actually been used up and when and how we are going to get out of this. Because that must now be a priority: an exit strategy. This can and should not take much longer. That's why a couple of questions to the Minister, just a couple of parliamentary questions. How many tests per day were available prior to the lockdown in force from 23 March? How many tests were available at the time? The letter states that between 17,500 and 29,000 tests are now available per day. Are they all used? How many tests do the Cabinet expect to have available next week and in two weeks? Is there any estimate of how many people in the Netherlands have had the virus? We've seen a sample in Iceland. From this, more than 50% of the people who have acquired it have not noticed any symptoms at all, more than 50%. If that is true, if so in the Netherlands, then the current measures are far too strict, far too strict. That's not rational. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u56	Sounds like a genius plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u58	That's what you're saying: we're gonna shut the country down in a lockdown and then we're gonna test who's got it. But if you can do about 20,000 tests a day, how many days are you doing to test the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u59	That's the same question as you could ask when there are polls, in politics. Then you can also say: how many people have actually participated in that investigation? That's what we call a representative sample. The ideal is, of course, that you can test the entire population or that you can even do it twice. Andorra is doing that now. They ordered 150,000 tests, and they're gonna test everyone twice. Of course, that's the very best. But if you can't do that, you can do representative samples among the population in different regions and do samples in specific vulnerable sectors, for example in care homes for the elderly, in hospitals and elsewhere. So you have to do it intelligently. If you don't have enough to test everyone, you have to organize it that way. You need to try to get an overview of what we're talking about as soon as possible. That is the aim of the current situation and policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u60	I find it hard to take this very seriously. These aren't polls. This is a virus that has turned the Netherlands upside down, which has turned the whole world upside down, confronting us with one of the biggest crises in Dutch history after the war. Surely it's not so relevant to know if you have 3% infections in Brabant if you don't know who they are? So I have a question for you. If you're going to test everyone in the lockdown and then you can isolate, as they did in a number of countries, it could work. Then I have a question for you. We had about 20,000 tests, and now we're going to scale up to 30,000. I would have liked it to be different, too, but it's not. If we want to test everyone with 20,000 tests, I think it'll take 850 days, Mr. Baudet. Are you saying we're going to go 850 days in lockdown and then we know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u61	No, no, no. Mr. Azarkan completely misunderstood. Firstly, the situation in the Netherlands. It's not like we had a total of 20,000 tests that we could only use once. It's about capacity, isn't it? So it's about how many tests you can do a day. Then one of these tubes comes out of one of those devices and you can do another test. So it's not like you have that number in total and that's the end of it. Moreover, it is absolutely not that you need to test everyone at one time to get an overview of what we are dealing with. That's what I've just been trying to explain. You can do different things. First of all, you can work with samples. There's something you could've done. By the way, the whole point I'm making now is of course something that also played in February. We had all that test capacity back then. If you had tested everyone who came to the GP with flu problems on this, you would now have a wealth of information. Then you would have known who had flu problems and recovered from them and who might have had corona. You'd have had a hell of a lot more information. Only by testing can you gather information about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u62	Yeah, I understand that. But I find it really too easy to pretend at the beginning that Mr Baudet has Columbus' egg, namely: you do a lockdown, you test and then you solve the problem. That does not do justice to reality. We don't have a corona election, so the comparison with the election poll? What I think it's about if you wanted to deal with testing, is that you know exactly where it is. Then it doesn't matter if 2% of the people in Brabant have it or 5%? At most you know that the intensity is a lot higher. But if you don't know who they are in Brabant, you still can't act, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u63	Of course you do, because you'll know how deadly the virus is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u64	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u65	That's the big X factor in all the discussions we're having right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u66	No, you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u67	... about this virus. We don't know how deadly it is. It is possible that 60% or 70% of the population have simply had it. It's possible. There has been no serious investigation in any way, because we have not tested on a sample basis. So I'm talking about immunity testing. Of course, you have different types of tests. You can do a representative sample of immunity. Then you have an idea of the level of contagion among the population. We don't have that right now. Only anyone who enters the hospital about half-dead is now being tested. So you never get the relevant information about the severity of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u68	I conclude that this really does not do justice to the efforts of many healthcare workers, nor to the efforts to do the right thing with tests. The suggestion that Mr Baudet now knows...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u69	I'm not saying anything about the efforts of health care workers, am I? I'm just saying something about policy: if you don't test, you can't know anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u70	Mr Baudet, I think I had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u71	Yeah, but you just interrupted me twice, too, so I do feel like I'm standing in my right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u72	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u73	Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u74	Thank you. Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u75	Yes. So we would very much like to know whether it is possible to estimate, on the basis of rational statistical data, how many people have had this virus in the Netherlands in total. I was just trying to explain that to Mr Azarkan in vain. In Iceland, they have made a statistically relevant sample. There it was concluded that more than 50% of the people who received the virus have not developed any symptoms at all. So we are talking about more than 50%. So we want to know, because that is really essential in order to be able to make policies. The RIVM has then indicated that it is going to do an immunity test among the population. But is there any news about the progress and possible results of this trial? When can those results come in? I didn't see any clear information on that in the letter. How many people are cured from the corona virus now? So I'm not just talking about people who have been on ICU, and not just about people who come from the hospital. How many people have been cured at all? And how many people actually died of the virus, or died with the virus. For example, we can calculate this by subtracting the standard number of deaths you would see in the Netherlands per day. Is that taken away? How many people normally die from lung complaints? How many people have underlying ailments that are so serious that their life expectancy was already very limited? That is all information that we do not have, or do not have, clearly. And, finally. In your letter, you wrote that 30 million masks were ordered. Is this enough? How many mouth caps do care take about a day? How many should ideally be available for outside care? I come to the status of the economic aid package. Have you taken note of the proposal that we launched yesterday and which was supported by Hans de Boer and Hans Biesheuvel? We are in favour of directly increasing liquidity support for entrepreneurs, also to achieve a partial turnover fee, and of thinking about reducing VAT rates in the context of a kick-start of the economy. I'd love to hear answers to all these questions. I have hundreds of other questions, but I'll be brief. Compliments, by the way, for Minister Hoekstra, who, possibly because of the power struggle in the CDA, now keeps his back so straight in the discussion about the Eurobonds. We are very excited about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u77	Thank you, Mr President. That a pandemic, and the coronavirus in particular, would be the great equalizers because they would not distinguish between humans, is a very big misconception. This is precisely what appears to be an 'unequalizer' of inhuman proportions, because of the virus itself, but unfortunately also because of the measures. We must not close our eyes to this, even though it may be too big to solve one-two-three. We need to talk about how the virus increases inequality in society. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Let me give just a few examples. It is precisely the extra vulnerable people who lose their jobs or assignments, as a flex worker or pretender with hardly any financial buffers. Is there a sufficient view of these groups, such as carers, as well as many zzp'ers, but also family parents who now have full care for their chronically ill children at home, who have to take unpaid leave and thus get into financial problems? Is there attention to that and a solution? The coronavirus also puts pressure on women's rights worldwide. Is there any insight into how this is done in the Netherlands and what does the cabinet do about it? The United Nations warn against a horrific increase in reports of domestic violence. What has the Minister done so far to scale up reception capacity? How is the problem solved that the emergency services are now less able to monitor domestic violence and child abuse? The homeless have no home and no shelter. Has the Minister found a national solution to this or is the homeless still dependent on local initiatives? Home education for children also puts pressure on equal opportunities. Can't the most vulnerable children, like parents' children in the vital professions, go to school? We do fight the virus together. Solidarity and additional support for the weak is also something that needs to be done together. We must also bear that responsibility together. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u78	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u79	Mr. Chairman. It's good to see how creative Dutch people are. Screens are placed to protect cashiers and cough screens are placed between drivers and drivers. The catering industry has switched massively to delivery and pick-up. The Netherlands is digitizing at a rapid rate. There is a meeting via Zoom, lessons are given via Teams and exams and tests are taken via the computer, online. Fantastic initiatives, but SMEs are a bloodbath. Companies go bankrupt, often due to unnecessary corona bureaucracy. Why, for example, can operators of beach tents not receive NOW support just because they did not employ people in January? Why can't hundreds of thousands of olderzzp'ers who also get AOW benefit from the measures? Why do you have to liquidate your business before you get WW while a child can think that this prevents a quick start-up? Why can't a tennis trainer get support because he doesn't have an external office, even though his tennis court is his office? Why is the RDW only carrying out crucial inspections and is it destroying an entire industry of car importers? What about the implementation of the motions that I tabled together with the Forum for Democracy on the corona bureaucracy? We're in an intelligent lockdown now, and we need to write the scenario for intelligent start-up. As soon as possible, but in any case immediately after April 28th. With the same creativity, but at least it must be accompanied by so-called asymmetric measures: measures that cost little but have a huge impact. For example, large-scale testing and isolating or explaining corona-free. Or put only the elderly and the sick in self-insulation. Or the voluntary wearing of masks. I do not understand why we have been discussing mouth caps for weeks now, with major successes in several countries. Or, for example, the start-up of schools and restaurants with adjustments in the area of social distance. Why, for example, should we not be able to open the catering industry in a smart way, taking into account the distance of one and a half metres? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u80	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a slightly longer suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u81	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u82	Mr. Chairman. In the distribution of roles, Hugo de Jonge, the VWS Minister, will immediately address the questions about care, including the position of vulnerable people and education. Then I answered three small stacks of my own. The first is about what I sum up as the 1.5-metre society. The second contains a number of questions about the socio-economic package and then there is a residual category. Can I share two images with you in advance? Of course, we all have moments in these weeks of crisis that keep up with us. For me, that's two. The first is not so much what I have seen as what I perceive. That is the unlikely achievement to double the capacity in the intensive care departments in such a short time. It worked. That's what we were worried about last week. We've been working on that for a long time. You really have to imagine... The people here know that without a doubt, but I am also saying it for the people who follow this debate and hopefully do not have to deal with it every day. I didn't, but I did visit an intensive care department at Erasmus MC a few weeks ago. That's really incredibly handsome. These are the nurses, the doctors, the cleaners, the patient transporters; everyone involved in logistics and care in hospitals. I want that said on my side once. If we could all do "pfff" in the Netherlands for a moment in this crisis, in which there are very few moments to say "pff" to each other, because it is of course terrible what is happening then that was this weekend. Then we said to each other: okay, next to the crisis, let's consider for a moment the fact that this is working. By the way, there was also the very cautious good news that the recordings on the ic seem to level something off. The second was the visit I made this morning to the St.Jacob church here around the corner, in the Parkstraat, where I spoke with people from the ecclesiastical world, PKN, Catholic churches, other churches, about the enormous impact it has on them. Not only will the services not continue on Sundays, and if they already continue with a few people, audio and images will be broadcast as well as possible via television, stream facilities, you name it. But it's totally different. These are the churches, but that also goes for the regular meetings of sports clubs and all kinds of hobby clubs. The churches play such an important role in this because they have such a large role in the texture of society. But they also said that there is such intense contact, and that is why I call it here. We can't see each other in person but have contact via phone calls, stop by and sometimes literally sit by the window talking through the phone so you can see each other. I was really emotional about that and impressed by how we do it in the Netherlands. Last week, you saw in a few days that education was suddenly given at a distance, which you would otherwise meet for ten years. Those are two examples. So this week we will all have examples from our visits. I noticed these. That's why I wanted to share them, especially now that it's Easter week. There is already recalled not only happening on Friday, but certainly also on Sunday, the hope, which is also related to Easter. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I come to the practical points raised in this crisis. Yes, it is true: we will have to think about the future, from the thought that it is very unlikely that everything will return to normal on April 28th. In fact, that chance seems like zero. You're hoping there'll be something else on April 28th. That too is not certain. It may also be that you have to say in the next few weeks on the basis of the figures: we need to continue with the current package of measures for some time to come. But, of course, you're hoping there's something space. If it's not there yet, you're hoping it'll be there soon after. So you have to think about how to put things together so that sectors can go on again. That's also in government, in education. That is, of course, in the economy. How do you organize that in the hospitality, in the cinemas, in all those places? What I actually wanted to do yesterday is to say to all the people who are already thinking about it: go ahead with it; make those plans. That's not easy. Let me give you one example. Suppose you could say at some point that terraces can be open at one and a half meters and perhaps not yet inside I don't know all about it; we all have to wait and see if that has consequences for crowd management. Because how do you prevent it from collapsing in alleyways to a square where there is a terrace? All this must be organized. In that regard, there is a role for the government. There is certainly a role for the sectors. Several of you have said: what great creativity comes of that! That's what we're trying to get going right now. In that context, Mr Krol said: how do you see it now with ordinary life? I think: as we all see it now, with a huge focus on whether the care can handle it. It's really important. Can I say that again? We must keep that distance of 1.5 metres, which we have done to a considerable extent so far. Maybe you shouldn't call it "social distancing" but "physical distancing," physical distance. Because that distance is certainly not social, but it is physical. We also have to comply with all the regulations, including the ones about what you do when you have a cold and you get nervous and you get a fever. That's really crucial. If that is the case, hopefully there will also be a glimpse of something wider. The OMT was quite clear about this yesterday: then you also have a number of preconditions to meet, namely that the spread rate goes below zero, that we can test, that we monitor the care and ic capacity, that you can also do the tests if people do have it. Hence also the app discussion; it immediately comes back in the answer of Hugo de Jonge. But all those things you need. You also have to look at the effects of this. In the OMT opinion, these five points were identified yesterday. But in that context, you have to think about the question: if it can get a bit started now, how do you do it? Then it is quite conceivable, even though we also know that not exactly at this moment is it really going to take a while before you can fall into each other's arms again. Maybe that's not possible for a long time. At least: of course if you already live in one house, but if you don't, you will have to keep that distance for the time being. And yes, of course, there are a lot of questions that come back there. Do you do that in an inclusive way? Yes, of course we try to involve everyone as much as possible, but even more so: I turn it around. The schools can think about that now. Childcare can think about that now. That's what happens there, of course. Restaurants can think about that now. There are already examples in shops of how they do that. Some shops do that very well. I must honestly say that sometimes I do errands myself: here I still have to slalom quite well to maintain the 1.5 meters. But there are also supermarkets that do it very precisely and go very far in it, even to protecting the compartments, but also the customers when it comes to how to handle that at the shelves. That's the intelligent way out of the intelligent lockdown, as I described it yesterday. That will have to happen, but that is not something we can think of. And what I am happy to note, too, is that it was noted here this afternoon, fortunately, that it is not all of us; the schools, the factories, the public transport, all those sectors, of course, can do that very well themselves. And yes, so I say to Van der Staaij.... fundamental rights are important. We take the measures, of course, on medical advice. That's leading. That is also what I wanted to say yesterday, echoing what Asscher, I believe, said on Sunday in Buitenhof: I do not see the sham contradiction between economics and health. It's two sides of the same coin. But that is why, from the medical advice, you will have to look at how to proceed proportionally with the measures, while, of course, minimising the violation of fundamental rights. A possible opinion from the Council of State is conceivable in this respect. I can't see that right now, I've noted that suggestion, but that is, of course, conceivable. Mr. Chairman. That in response to the first of the three topics I wanted to address: our life, the rhythm of getting back to normal life, together with the question of what we can do with each other to prepare ourselves for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u83	The Prime Minister is right to say that we cannot come up with all this ourselves; there is an enormous amount of thinking in society. That's what he's gonna do. He says: think with me to see how we can shape that society when there is more space. That is, of course, very important, but at the same time it is very important that this cabinet is directing it. So that all that thinking and all those ideas do come together in the cabinet, so that scenarios can be worked out on it as well. So I don't think anyone here is telling the cabinet to do it itself. But what I want to ask the Prime Minister is how he's going to direct this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u84	That's the question. I agree you have to do something with that from the government. We will have to say, on the basis of medical advice, that this is the type of extension that will be possible. I'm just not quite sure I'm really sure about that yet, so I'm telling you honestly; that really takes even more time to think about whether that also requires the government to direct in detail how you're going to do that, for example when it comes to whether or not the terraces can be opened again. Perhaps you will say to the catering industry: these are the conditions and you must organise them yourself. Our role in this is to think about how to ensure that large groups of people, without creating congestions, can sometimes get pipes from small alleys to a terrace. However, I am not quite sure that Mrs Ellemeet will mean that we should have the direction of what such a terrace, cinema or school looks like at a distance of 1.5 metres. Those are really things that the sectors themselves have to do, because we are not going to save that either. If that comes from the government, it'll take months. Apart from Eric Wiebes, who, of course, already has for all those sectors fully figured out how to do it. No one has the creativity to think of it with us. This will therefore have to come to an important extent from the sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u85	I want to thank the Prime Minister for his lovely opening. It was nice to see him burn a candle as a Protestant. I saw the picture coming by. It was nice ecumenical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u86	I didn't offend you, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u87	No, definitely not. It was a nice ecumenical gesture. It is also nice how hope is materialized in the decline in the IC occupation. We see that it is not just a bird in the air, but that the policy has real impact and that there is indeed tangible hope. However, I would like to continue for a moment on what comes next and how we can get to that 1.5-metre society. That is an almost physical operation: how do we organise it, for example in supermarkets? The Prime Minister refers to that. At the same time, people working in mental health also say: this also has a mental impact on the population. There will be people who walk away from this crisis with PTSD, with stress, because of living long in one place with a family and all the stress that sometimes comes with it. Does the cabinet also take on this challenge? Does it think about the period after this, even mentally or mentally?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u88	Yes. As far as healthcare capacity is concerned, Hugo de Jonge will go into this further, but the answer is yes. You are dealing here with a number of very essential questions. It is about the very essential practical demand of people in intensive care, who hopefully survive, but who sometimes have to get hurt and recover for a long time: what does that mean for the rehabilitation capacity in care? But it is also about the question: what is happening spiritually? That was very impressive in the conversation with the churches this morning. They said that as this takes longer, it can have a huge impact on people. The word PTSS was used literally. It is still very difficult to estimate what that will be like, because at the same time there is so much love again I use that word only for a moment in society, so much commitment to each other. There's very intense contact. That's not physical, but some people from the churches said: we actually have much more contact with our church now. Although we don't see them on Sundays, we suddenly know a lot more about what's going on behind the front door, what people are going through, how people are in life, than we knew before. They also said: "The last thing we want to be as a church is the victim of this crisis. We must never be the victims. We, as churches, have to adapt to this situation." You have to realize that there are churches in the Middle East that have never been closed for as long as they exist, sometimes 600 or 700 years! But now they are closed, and that church services in the Netherlands could go on in any form during the war, and they can't do that now. Now they have to make that cover. Of course, we try to think about it and get an idea of what impact it has on people in a wider society. The Younger will say something about issues of domestic violence and how we deal with it. Mr Asscher asked questions on this point. But wide on that point: yes, we are trying to answer that as best we can, although it is difficult to estimate how big that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u89	A distinction must also be made between the short-term and the long-term. In the short term, there is an enormous pressure on, for example, the ic staff. Gommers also talked about this at the technical briefing. He talked about burn-out and the threat of burn-out. Yes, there is a tremendous amount of pressure on those personnel. But it is also about the long term: what happens next? So it is good if the cabinet picks up and thinks about it now, no matter how busy and no matter how intense it is in this crisis, over the period after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u90	It was impressive how he told me about one of his colleagues who was literally crying. He said, "Oh, come here for a second, not literally, of course, because that's not allowed, but he tried to give as much support as possible." He also said, "Please, get back to work." But that's so hard, of course. In that one anecdote, which he told somewhere in a program or told me I thought I'd seen it on television. You know that a lot of people who end up in intensive care because of car accidents, heart problems or other things, or planned after surgery, unfortunately don't make it either. People are really used to something there, but this is so much bigger and so intense. And then we have to scale up so quickly. There are also concerns: "Can we deliver the quality?" And "what does politics ask, and can we handle it all?'. In the end, these kinds of follow-up issues also emerge. I agree with Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u91	We are actually seeing which professions are really crucial in our society: people who work in care, agents, shop staff. There is rightly a great deal of appreciation for that. But we also have a lot of concerns with these people, especially about how things are going to go after this crisis and, above all, about who is going to pay for it. That is being considered in full. Then it's about exit strategies and how we're going to set up our economy in the future. Does the Prime Minister agree that we should do this in a just way and that this should also mean that the people who are now working so hard to keep society running should not be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u92	Once, yes. A motion has also been adopted, and I thought that Mrs Marijnissen was specifically concerned with the care staff, which is, of course, particularly affected by this. But it's wider. I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u93	I'm glad to hear that. Last week the Prime Minister surprised me a little when he described the Netherlands as a deep-socialist country. I was wondering what that would mean. But if that means that the VVD says "we learned from that crisis ten years ago, when the banks were saved but the people had to pay most for it," then it makes me feel good to hear this. I think it's very hard for us to ask the people who have to work now to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u94	Now the debate is threatening to become a bit more political, which, of course, also belongs here in the House of Representatives. You don't save banks because you like banks so much. I am very sympathetic to all the people who work at banks, and I am happy to do so, but the banks are not an end in themselves. Only, they were very important then, and still, as a transmission belt of our economy. That is why it was crucial that Balkenende and Bos started that rescue operation in 2008 and 2009 with the full support of my party, then from the opposition. I still agree that they did and that we supported that as an opposition party at the time. The fact that we are a deep-socialist country is an observation. I am not saying that this is desirable, but it is an observation, because in the Netherlands, the vast majority of what we produce is being redistributed, firstly along the axis of health care, which is very democratic in the Netherlands; we are proud that the king is receiving the same treatment as the cleaner, and secondly through social security. They organize the distribution of our prosperity. This makes us a country that I will not call "deep-socialist," but rather more neutral, "Scandinavian." I see my party is getting a bit calmer with that description. Moreover, Mr Asscher might think: I will not have to bring in any more seats, because we already are. Of course, I want him to have the ambition to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u95	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether it is true what the Prime Minister says, namely that the king in this country will receive the same treatment as the cleaner. I dare to doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u96	In the hospitals? Yeah, it really is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u97	Yes, but I'm talking about the continuation of this crisis. We all know we're fighting the corona virus very hard right now. But we all know it's gonna be hard after this. Of course, I didn't refer to that crisis ten years ago for nothing. It was then that the people who had to continue to work had to pay the bill. At that time, the public sector was cut back. Then our retirement age, our AOW age, was increased. I think it is important to mark in this debate today that our Prime Minister says that we should not make that mistake again ten years ago. We are right to applaud our healthcare providers and our shopkeepers, who run our society, but they also deserve to say here today that, when we start thinking about exit strategies, it has to be just and social and that we get the money where it is, and that is not with those healthcare providers and parcel delivery workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u98	I'm afraid we're not entirely in agreement then. At a difficult stage, as the Netherlands, we have been prepared to carry out far-reaching reforms in all our major arrangements, such as social security, including the necessary increase in the age at which we retire in the Netherlands. It is precisely that that has enabled us to build together the great apple for thirst, thanks to which the Netherlands is now able to respond to that crisis without any major problems, at least as long as that does not last for too long, because there are limits to the crisis. A few weeks ago, we were able to take a slim hand to the capital market to borrow 65 billion because there is great confidence in the solidity of Dutch public finances. So I really think that was necessary. You don't do that for fun; that's what you do to make sure you're ready for another punch. So you fix the roof when the sun shines. Getting out of the crisis always has far-reaching social consequences. I am therefore defending the strategy and approach of the last ten years, in which I myself have, of course, had a limited role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u99	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u100	Looking back at what happened and how it happened, we'll do it later. Now the Prime Minister is talking about the future and what it will look like in the future. Is he thinking, for example, of investing more in health care? I think we will see this year that we have a shortage of care staff. This is not linked to the quality and appreciation that Mrs Marijnissen rightly refers to. I think we need more care staff at all and maybe we should be a little more careful when closing down hospitals. Perhaps we should also step up our intensive care capacity or at least ensure that it is available more easily and quickly in the future if necessary. Is that part of the Prime Minister's exercise when he talks about the need for the Netherlands to adapt in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u101	Yes, I agree in a general sense. You need to learn lessons from this crisis. That's what we're gonna have to do. I take two things from Mr Wilders' speech which might illustrate this. The first thing you should look at in the future is the intensivecare capacity. You've already noticed that there's usually a few hundreds of 1,150 ic-beds left empty. I don't think it makes sense to have a lot more ic-beds. In Germany, 25,000 people live in a population five times larger than that of the Netherlands. That would mean in the Dutch system that a lot of those beds are empty. Wilders himself gave the suggestion: we need to think about how to scale up much faster in a situation where that is necessary. So that's one of the things I agree with him about. Frankly, I do not agree with the statement that care has been cut. Healthcare expenditure has doubled over the last 10 years. There's no cuts in health care. Social security has been moving for years between 60 and 75 billion. Since I was in politics, healthcare expenditure has doubled from 45 billion to 100 billion. So there's no cutback.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u102	Expenditure may have increased, but it has certainly been cut in several ways. This concerns the employees in the care, especially until 2015, but also afterwards. Under the cabinet you had with Mr Asscher, people were fired. But apart from that, because then it will be very political again and, again, we can do that at another time. We see what happens now with protective materials. I call mouth caps and, for example, oxygen for the ICUs. We just weren't prepared for that. I ask the Prime Minister to take a broad look at all these resources. Maybe we don't need 25,000 ic-beds, as in Germany, but I think a little more than we do now. It is also important that we ensure that we have them at hand a little earlier and that the production of these resources is carried out structurally in the Netherlands. And perhaps the most important thing is that we not only value the care staff better, but also focus more on it and, again, not just this year. It is important that we also meet for the years to come, no matter what party we are, that care may actually be at the top of all our political lists and that we can find each other in it whether you call it austerity or not, that we will invest more in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u103	In general terms: once. We must learn from the crisis. Always. So you have to think... The tricky thing is, of course, always, but that's also what we have to do... I really think that's a brainbreaker we should take time for together. The risk is, of course, that you are preparing for exactly this crisis again. The complicated thing is that this crisis is exactly one more time, not very likely. So you have to start thinking: how can I scale up much more flexible capacity and how can I also detach a national production capacity if necessary? In that sense, I agree with Wilders; we need to carefully evaluate these lessons and draw them out of this crisis. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions about the economic package. I'll try to deal with it briefly. For the sake of clarity, questions have been asked on the question of additional measures for short-term seasonal work, in particular ornamental farming. May I say that we are looking at a solution to this at the moment? That's not gonna be this week, but, I think, next week. Don't ask me exactly how we're going to do that. We're really talking about that. But you can see that we are always trying to look at the question: where are white spots, where can we do more? So in particular, we're looking at three things right now. First of all, I mentioned it: the seasonal work. Secondly, as I have already mentioned: ornamental farming. Thirdly, I would like to mention the flex workers. The point is, there's more we can do there. Of course, we can do all we need right now. They can claim the NOW scheme in a number of cases. If they do not, they can, of course, make use of existing schemes such as the WW and the assistance. But we're looking very specifically at those three groups. That's what Wouter Koolmees said today. And that's what we'll come back to. Then the cab drivers. Yes, it is. But I say to Mr Azarkan: the market people are now on the list. The TOGS scheme is constantly being supplemented. Market trade, both food and non-food, is now included. Indeed, debt-to-equity support is a major issue. I agree with Mr Baudet that that is a really big point. We need to make sure that it gets through the banks to the people involved. We are looking at the proposals, including those made by Mr Baudet on this point. Those talks with the banks are going on right now. Then very specifically Mr Segers' question about sex workers. Social work helps them to appeal to the emergency package. If they are self-employed, they are entitled to the Tozo scheme. If they are employed, the employer is entitled to the NOW scheme on payment of the wage. In other cases, of course, there are existing safety nets. There is still a specific question about online advertisements. These are of course more beautiful I can not make contact professions. There's a ban on that. This includes prostitution. By the way, research shows that the number of online advertisements has fallen dramatically. We understand that many advertisers leave advertisements online to stay under attention, but not to actually make the arrangements. So that's more to keep an eye on the sector and not to make agreements. Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions about the economy. That is first of all Mr Van Haga's question about the coincidence between the Tozo and the AOW. There, as is the case with the bbz, a self-employed entrepreneur above the AOW age is not entitled to additional assistance. Because they are above the social minimum. So the scheme is not meant for them. But an AOW entitled person can have a younger partner who is an entrepreneur. And then he's entitled to the Tozo. Finally, the risk that the self-employed will have to liquidate their business because they will not have access to a scheme. Then they should actually shut down their business first. I would point out that the Tozo doesn't contain a power test. There may be a misunderstanding about that. A property in a company or outside does not count for that arrangement. This is a difference with the Bbz, the Decision on self-employed assistance. If I have misunderstood Mr Van Haga, he can explain that. Mr. Chairman. Those are the answers to the questions about the economy. Then I have a few more questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u104	There are interruptions by Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Segers, Mr Baudet and Mr Asscher. First of all, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u105	Earlier, the cabinet replied in the affirmative when the Animal Party proposed not to separate the resolution of this crisis from the other challenges we face. For example, biodiversity loss and climate change. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about solving the problems in ornamental farming. People need to be helped, but they are economic activities that are also at the expense of our health. A lot of poison is used in ornamental farming, in bulb cultivation, so that at 250 meters away poison remains are found in babies' diapers. And it's a threat to biodiversity. Does the government take into account the way in which we have to deal with this economic activity in our country in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u106	No. The answer is simply no. We just have a beautiful ornamental sector in the Netherlands. He's having a hard time. That also depends on the seasonal work. We're looking at what we can do about it. But no; the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u107	I find this very disappointing, because the Prime Minister said yesterday in the press conference, and again today in the press conference, and my heart is that there is no contradiction between public health and the economy. Those are two sides of the same coin. People who live near the bulb fields have been asking politics for years now to take a measure to stop that poisonous use. Our biodiversity is running backwards. Then it would be unwise not to include those two major questions in how you think about that sector and what you're dealing with before? Again, the people who are affected now must help you. But in the long term whether we should continue this economic activity in this way, can't you think about it next year? I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u108	Well, with all due respect, Mr. Chairman, we are now trying to run a crisis with each other, both in terms of medical impact on society and in terms of economic impact. Those are indeed two sides of the same coin; there is no tension between them. But these are huge issues. This is a sector that is hit hard and where specific things are going on. I went to work on Monday in the transport sector. One of the companies is fully engaged in the driving of ornamental plants in Italy. That's completely quiet. That has a huge impact. Not only on such a transport company, but also on the companies that deliver them and for whom they drive. It is really not possible to say that we are going to support such a sector, but we are going to have a very fundamental discussion about the desirability of ornamental farming in the middle of this crisis. In general terms, when it comes to taking measures to ensure that there is proper production, including environmental and so on, I say: we have always done so. If there are any special issues in this sector, then we will have to look at them and we will have to relate to them. But that really doesn't matter now. There is no time at all for such fundamental conversations. I wish we had that luxury. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u109	The Prime Minister may pretend that this is just coming out of the sky, but the health problems of people living near bulb fields have been going on for 15 years. People who work in that sector have parkinson more often. Why is that? Because poison is being used. So that's a real health problem. The Prime Minister cannot take everything out of the box to solve this acute health crisis and continue to look away from all the other health problems that are also happening and in which people are also entitled to a government that is protecting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u110	I would be happy to discuss with Mrs Ouwehand all kinds of sectors in agriculture and how we organise our agriculture. But now that's out of the question. We don't have that time right now. These are companies that are threatening to fall or are in big trouble. That's what you're trying to help. That's what's going on right now. Of course, you can also talk about every sector we have in the Netherlands about what their contribution is to the country, whether there are any issues that are still there and how they comply with the laws and regulations. But it is now impossible to say 'we are going to have a very fundamental debate on the usefulness of the ornamental sector', while our economy has been in the biggest crisis since the Second World War. We don't have that luxury now, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u111	It is true that questions are best asked about the sustainability of the ornamental sector, for example, but I agree with the Prime Minister that it is now a question of 'to be or not to be'. There are all kinds of healthy family farms that threaten to fall down differently. Then there's no way to oversee the damage. I agree with him. For a while he seemed to establish the relationship between seasonal work and ornamental farming alone, while the questions on that point are even wider, because the work continues. It just needs to be harvested, for example. Otherwise there can be no replanting. So that goes on, but there's no export. There's about 80% to 90% turnover loss. That's pretty dramatic. My question is whether he really wants to look at this very specific situation of ornamental farming. If that is taken away, we will be waiting for the results. But it is more specific than just the problem of seasonal work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u112	Sure, I should have said that. They're very special things, but there's, in a way, an overlap in them. But ornamental farming also has its own specific problems. I was just thinking about my own flower man in my little square. When he was hoarding all those toilet rolls, he had a sign at his flower shop: not hoarding, up to ten woods per person. Then I thought, "Yeah, that's the way it is."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u113	I have a question about liquidity support for entrepreneurs. That really is a huge problem. I heard the Prime Minister speaking in principle with sympathy about our plan, at least about exploring ways of increasing that liquidity support. We propose to give 100% of SME loans to banks according to the German model. That means that they will be shut down much faster, because then those banks will not have to do all kinds of checks themselves. Things will go wrong in every system, but this is a way to get that liquidity in order very quickly. That can be decided by the government this afternoon. Would the Prime Minister be more explicit about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u114	I did not mean to say that we agree with Mr Baudet. I agree with his analysis that there is a major problem here. Today we have another discussion with the banks, because we do not like the latest figures on how much liquidity is being passed on to business. We have taken a whole package of measures for this. Because of a twist of fate, it is often the case that when Mr Baudet is on television, I just turn on the TV. We need to talk about that. I don't see a lot of talk shows at all, but I saw him yesterday and I also asked this morning what that German approach is. There's a lot of hooks and eyes on that. So it's not like I'm saying yes to that right now. I do think that in such a crisis you should be prepared to think about suggestions that the opposition parties are also making. So that's what we're looking at. At the moment, it is not that it just fits in with the Dutch system. We are talking to the banks first, again today, to make sure that the flow of liquidity is going to run much better. We are always looking at suggestions, but without saying yes or no in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u115	Maybe fate wants to tell you something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u116	We need to talk about how that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u117	The guarantee from the government for loans from those banks is one element. Another point connected with this is a maximum interest rate of 1%. I have heard stories about usury interest rates up to 14.5% that are now counted on entrepreneurs. That's impossible, isn't it? Surely that is something you can express and express your opinion on? That's absolutely impossible. That's gotta stop. You can even take a measure for that. A third point concerns the 3.9% closure premium. If you borrow a ton as an SME entrepreneur, you already pay €3,900 just to make that deal. That's impossible, isn't it? That's not necessary at all. There is no reason why this should be the case in the Netherlands. And that shouldn't wait another week. That can't last another ten days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u118	We're really on top of that. We always look at all the suggestions made, including those from the Forum for Democracy. But I'm not going to comment on them right now, because there are a lot of hooks and eyes on them. And Mr Baudet also says a few things he hears from the sector. I also hear things that I think: oh, is that how it is? I'm gonna have to take a closer look at that. I am not going to comment on this as Prime Minister, because then I will comment on rumors and I never want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u119	I just want to add one more thing to really finish it. I hope I do not say it for nothing and that you already know it, but of course it is also true that the loss of liquidity, that companies go bankrupt, that the economy takes a dip, is not just a monetary or financial gift, but is also really about people's lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u120	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u121	That is what you said at your press conference yesterday: health and economics should go hand in hand. They also go hand in hand. If we sacrifice everything for health care now, you will lose not only prosperity but also lives. That can be really expressed at some point in life, in health, in disease and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u122	I do not agree with that part of Mr Baudet's speech yesterday and in his speech today. Let's talk about the liquidity. Once, that needs to be dealt with. All proposals are being examined. First of all, with the package that lies ahead, we are trying to encourage the banks to make a much larger flow of liquidity. In Mr Baudet's last point, there is yet another contradiction between health and the economy. At least I can hear it in there. He's shaking no, so I got that wrong. Well, then we're in agreement. No contradiction. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u123	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u124	The Prime Minister is in his socialist phase these weeks. There is plenty of talk about additional support for large companies, such as KLM. I would like to ask him whether he can also commit to the rules for such aid operations. This means that the interests of employees are taken into account, that there will be no aid without control and that others will be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u125	If only we could cut it all so precisely. That's not always possible. We're trying everything now, of course. With the three-month package, which has grown to 20 billion in size, you are trying to keep as many sectors and jobs as possible. You keep trying to figure out where the white spots are. That is why we are looking again at flex workers, seasonal workers and ornamental farming. I suspect whether I misunderstand him that Mr Asscher refers to the discussion on KLM last week. If it isn't, then perhaps I'm mistakenly suspicious. He's shaking no. In general terms, you try to keep the participation and normal processes in companies in mind, but you don't always have the time and luxury to do so. Sometimes it is necessary to act quickly to ensure that an essential company, with the jobs behind it, does not fall over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u126	It's not a theoretical discussion. The case is additional support for a company like KLM. You can see there's more to it than that. That's what Hoekstra's talking about. It's not something to cut loose. No, these are just lessons from the banking crisis. What are the lessons from the banking crisis? Sometimes you have to help companies, but you have to get control of them, you have to make clear agreements about the employees and others have to pay for them, in this case the shareholders. Can the Prime Minister promise that if he or at least his cabinet gives support to a company like KLM in the next 24 to 48 hours or in the next week, he will apply those rules? That is important, because it is billions that belong to the Dutch and that we use to save jobs, but not without conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u127	Then it is not about the discussion last week about KLM. For a moment, that was the distrust I felt was wrong. Now it's about... what if... what if... what if... what if... I'd like to abstract that from KLM. I don't want to talk about a company here, because that's not right. In general, I understand what Mr Asscher is saying. I cannot say exactly that all these elements will always play a role here, but in general I agree with him that if you go into a company that you have to take equity or start to participate, you must of course also have wishes and conditions from the government. That's in general terms. I would like to assure him that I would ask him to give an official analysis of the suggestions he has made. I would like to talk to my advisers about whether I can say yes to that. Then I will come back to that in second term, but I will abstract it from a company. I don't want to speculate about one enterprise right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u128	I'd really like to abstract, too. Last week we abstracted from Italy and now we abstract from KLM, but we do know that it is now on the agenda and that there is talk of subordinated loans to dampen losses. Then it makes a lot of difference whether we can speak with each other in advance: yes, we want to save those jobs; this is also an essential and vital part of our economy. The lessons from the banking crisis are there for a reason. It's not all those demands. No, it's three logical conclusions that we drew together as a society at the time. If you have to save a company, if you have to save a bank or a large airline, think of the employees, make sure you have control and make others pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u129	I do not find them strange in advance either, but I would like to be advised by officials before I reflect further on them. Mr Asscher is just one step ahead of me. Then I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u130	Mr Van Haga and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u131	My question was actually about another group, so allow me to clarify that here. This is a relatively small group of me think several tens of thousands of people who, for example, have left in a company reorganised, who have built up WW rights but have not used them, then, for example, have started a business as a zzp'er or a one-man business and now suddenly have no turnover. They can still claim their WW rights, but there is some kafkaesque rule in it which obliges them to liquidate their e.g. or their one-man business first. I think that can be lifted in one area of pens. I would normally table a motion on it, but I only have 40 seconds and I have three motions to make later. So if you want to make a commitment on that, you will meet me tremendously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u132	I cannot do that, but I now understand Mr Van Haga's question. I had interpreted the question differently, as was clear from my answer, namely the relationship to corporate liquidity, the Bbz and the Tozo scheme. I understand better what he means. I really need to check that out. I can't say that out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u133	And you'll come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u134	I'll get back to you on that, I'm sure. So I come back to two things: KLM, Mr Asscher's question, and Mr Van Haga's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u135	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u136	Thank you. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u137	Mr President, two questions. The first question is brief. The Prime Minister has now mentioned flex workers and seasonal workers a number of times as groups to which the cabinet is still looking more closely for the economic support package. Can he confirm to many people who are concerned and are following this debate that flex workers and seasonal workers in the cultural sector and the event sector are also included?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u138	As long as D66 is in the coalition, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u139	That's nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u140	Without fooling around, that goes for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u141	That's very good, because I think we all know now how important music, books, etc. are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u142	For me personally, too. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u143	Thank you. Then there's my second question. Mrs Ouwehand just asked questions to the Prime Minister about whether we should impose conditions on support for the ornamental farming sector. The Prime Minister replied: "Well, these are very fundamental talks. I wish we had time for that. That's a luxury we can't afford right now." But when I look at the commitment of the Netherlands, the cabinet, in Brussels, that is of course exactly what the Netherlands is doing. The house in southern Europe is on fire and in exchange for support for the medical disaster and the economic disaster that is going on there, the Netherlands sets conditions. That is exactly what Mrs Ouwehand is advocating, and so the Prime Minister considers a superfluous luxury at the moment. Just now the message also came out that the Netherlands is actually the only country that blocked that aid package last night. My question to the Prime Minister is: what is the commitment of this cabinet to reach agreement on this European aid package in the coming days, so that we can show solidarity within Europe and really help those countries that have been hard hit in the medical and economic field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u144	For the connection of ornamental farming to the discussion in the euro group last night, I had to go through the journey, but it was made. There were three things. Let me outline the three points, but I do not outline exactly where it stands. That meeting has been suspended and I am helping Wopke Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, not by giving all kinds of appreciations now. This will reduce the chance that tomorrow may be successful. Nor do I agree in advance with the analyses of how the balance of power would then lie. But for a second, what's going on? Actually, three big discussions. One is the one about eurobonds or no eurobonds. There's a whole group of countries that don't want that. The second discussion is the Commission's proposal on how to do additional things in the space that exists between commitments in the European budget and revenue................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This discussion is difficult, because such a regulation must also be limited in time and the Netherlands still has a number of specific wishes. So that's what the conversation is about and I'm not free to tell you exactly where it is, because then I won't help Wopke Hoekstra. I can tell you that the main debate is not so much about the Eurobonds or the Commission proposal, but rather about the ESM. I think everyone agrees that you are now using the ESM to help countries with the direct costs of combating corona in healthcare. Everyone says that's actually a very logical thing. The difficulty arises when it is then widened to the impact of this crisis on the economies. Then countries say that this includes, also in the system of the ESM, that a country obliges itself to think: what can I do to strengthen my economy, so that next time I can save it myself? That is actually where the point load of the discussion is, is my picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u145	Then my follow-up question is: does the Prime Minister recognise that supporting heavily affected economies in southern Europe is ultimately in the Dutch interest, because a deep recession in southern Europe is ultimately also a threat to Dutch prosperity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u146	Yes. Only helicopter money is a bit different than money in exchange for a country's commitment to think about what it can do itself to eventually make it stronger next time. There are a number of countries, without mentioning countries, which say: we do want the money, but not the framework conditions. That is not passable for the Netherlands. Good. Let me ask you a few final questions. Eindhoven Airport. May I put it briefly, Mr. Chairman? The rules are being enforced. They also apply to these migrant workers. In itself, on the basis of the European Commission's recent communication, Member States should allow mobile workers to work, in particular those in vital professions. The food supply is part of this. Once again, however, there is an adequate distance to be maintained, including in the case of joint transport. Then there was the question of what we would do if problems arose at the border crossings. I will not give the whole answer here, because I did so yesterday at the press conference, or earlier, last week after the Thursday crisis meeting. We have drawn up a whole package of measures together with Germany in particular, but also with Belgium to ensure that people stay at home and do not come here, and we do not go there. In addition, there is a close cooperation with the KMar, the Dutch military police and the German police. I understood Mr Heerma's question as follows. If necessary, can you respond flexibly to situations during Easter weekends? The answer is yes. The situation is constantly monitored and, if necessary, additional measures are immediately taken and maintained. Then there was the question about Greece. On the Greek islands, we are helping intensively. We do this by supporting aid organisations. This support has been stepped up further. In addition, we also help very concretely with materials, such as aggregates. We are therefore making our contribution in a strengthened form. This is an addition to the comprehensive package that the European Commission has come up with, including at the request of the Netherlands. 700 million European financial aid has been made available. It concerns medical aid, assistance, improvement of health care in the camps. That money should also be used, and in particular, for the position of single minor asylum seekers. That's a Dutch point. And we would point out that, in such a situation, Greece can also make use of the European Civil Protection Mechanism. This will also allow it to call for additional medical attention. We are not participating in the request to include minor migrants. When, under the previous Italian Government, ships were not allowed to land in Italy, we also said: we are only participating if such a programme is really supported by the Union, and not if it is an initiative of a number of Member States. That's what we're saying now. Because that doesn't solve structural problems. This, of course, also raises the question of how to ensure that the agreements between Turkey and the EU are properly implemented. This also includes the need for Greece to speed up asylum procedures so that people can return to Turkey. We'll be helping with that gear, too. If that happens, according to the one-to-one system, we will take over people from Turkish camps here. That's how the deal was made in 2016. This should also give rise to the idea of getting into a boat under dangerous conditions in order to go to Europe. This has already been greatly reduced by all kinds of other circumstances. Mr President, allow me to answer the last question that was addressed to me. I guess I've answered all the questions that were addressed to me. Mr Azarkan asked a question about funerals, particularly those of Muslims. Is the cabinet helping? I explained last week that this really is a responsibility of the municipality. This is covered by the Coroner's Office Act. I checked this again with the JenV Ministry, where the minister is who deals with the services of honor. He also says: I don't recognize this signal. I can say that, should these signals continue to increase, or if Mr Azarkan can also share this signal directly with Minister Grapperhaus, the Minister will be happy to discuss this with Muslim organisations. I make that commitment to Mr Azarkan. I do not see him sitting in the Chamber at the moment, so I hope that he will hear that commitment in another way. Otherwise, I'll ask the government to let him know for a moment. So I say to the officials who are listening now: please let Mr Azarkan know this commitment. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u147	Mrs Ellemeet has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u148	I'm just saying how I feel and how I feel. I find the Prime Minister's answer to my question about helping 100 to 150 very vulnerable refugees, especially children, really impossible. These refugees are now in overcrowded camps on the Greek islands. There is a humanitarian emergency on those islands. The United Nations is asking us for help. The Greek government is asking us for help. Other European countries indicate that they are willing to take these people in. Municipalities in the Netherlands indicate that they are willing to take these people in. And this Prime Minister says, "You know what, we'll send money and aggregates there, and they'll figure it out on those islands." That just can't happen. The Netherlands can't look away like this. I am deeply ashamed of this reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u149	I'll take note of that. I honestly don't get it. We have agreed between Greece and Turkey, the European Union and Turkey on bringing the issue of the flow of refugees under control and all the risks involved. Frankly, on the Turkish side, these agreements, with the exception of the bizarre situation that arose on the land border of Turkey and Greece a few months ago, have been well implemented in general since 2016. The problem lies on the Greek side and the fact that asylum procedures were being completed too slowly and people were being sent back to Turkey, where Turkey knows that once someone returns to Turkey, someone is being taken from the camp in Turkey to Europe and distributed there. That's all part of the deal. We are. The Netherlands is currently at the forefront of the number of people we include through the UNHCR programme. We are at the top of Europe. So we're making a huge contribution. We are the country that normally belongs to the country with the greatest asylum pressure in Europe, together with the Swedes and the Germans. This also has to do with our prosperity, but there are also limits to it, of course. I really believe that if you want to solve this problem, Greece has to do its part. The new Greek government of the current Prime Minister is doing much better, I have to say. He's much more conscientious about it. In Europe, then, you must also ensure that you have a distribution system that works for the whole of Europe. If you do not take this European approach and let it come down to a number of countries again, and that happens here, then you do not solve the structural issues, my absolute conviction is. So we are helping humanitarianally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u150	Thank you. If you walk that way, the chair can be cleaned. Oh, Mr Asscher still has a question. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u151	In my view, Mrs Ellemeet did not claim that this would solve the problem or problems of migration in a structural way. So I do not think it is entirely fair to take it off in this way in the debate. There's a request for help. This is not to overthrow the whole European system, but to include a number of minors, particularly vulnerable children in a shitty situation. Then I do not think the answer is to those children: you are not a structural solution. That's right. I think it's more of a humanitarian question. You don't organize a new suction effect with that. The question is much more whether the Netherlands is able and willing to help a number of children. That's the request I heard. It is not about the whole European migration system. I think you can answer that much more calmly: "Yes, we're going to look at that." I think the answer is too robotic. You might want to calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u152	I hear the feedback that the answer wouldn't be quiet. I think the answer was calm. I only responded to the moral reproach of the previous speaker. I didn't recognize that. I also think that I should be able to mark that. Furthermore, I have tried to explain calmly I am going to repeat what we are doing. We are among the countries in Europe with the highest migratory pressure. There is, with the Swedes and the Germans, no other country in Europe that has been hit so hard by the Syrian refugee flows in 2015 and 2016. We've all had to deal with that. We have seen the consequences in our society. I am very pleased that it was then, in March 2016, that we were able to reach an agreement with Turkey to bring that flow under control in order to stop the life-threatening crossings across the Aegean Sea, and thereby ensure that our society continues to support the reception of refugees who depend on our protection. That support was losing its way. Now I know very well that there are always groups that I feel that way myself, of course; that is what Mr Asscher feels, that we all feel that you say: this is so intense again, could we not do a little more here? Then I do not find it strange for the Netherlands to say in a European context: boys, there are a lot of countries that were not affected by the flow of refugees and are not giving home again. That's one. Two. We are dealing with Greece, which has implemented a very limited part of the agreements with Turkey, namely sending people back to Turkey and saying: do not go back to those ships. We keep the pressure on Turkey similar, because we bring people other than Europe into a one-on-one system. We are also prepared to bring in people from Turkey on a group basis to relieve the pressure on the camps. The Netherlands participates in this programme. That is a European programme. We are doing much more in this than we would have to do on the basis of our size. So we do a lot of things. I find it unwise to make ad hoc solutions in Europe for this kind of situation. You have to make sure you help humanitarianly as best you can. We do that by doing everything with money, with stuff, with people to make sure that the situation there is as good as possible. The tragedy with these kinds of flows of refugees is that we all know that there are a lot of terrible situations in the world. That's right in Syria right now, in Idlib. The situation is wider in Syria; there are terrible situations. This is also a terrible situation. I think that every time we as the Netherlands have a warm heart but also a cool mind, we should think about how we can make the best contribution. I don't like ad hoc solutions here. I think we should help. So that's what we're doing. We are helping the islands to provide the best possible support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u153	This is your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u154	I get it. That's the way it goes in life sometimes. That support is indeed under pressure, but of course it is mainly under pressure because people who are not entitled to asylum are not returned, because we have a Secretary of State who does not even come into contact with Morocco to settle it properly for once. The basis is not under pressure when it comes to dozens of children who are now in the cold, in hunger, in the disease. That's what this is about. I also agree with the Prime Minister that the Netherlands is doing a great deal about this UNHCR programme. It is also good that there are agreements to deal with migration in a sensible way. But the story against children in need of "you're an ad hoc solution and that's why I'm not in on it', when we know that eight European countries want to do it, and not the least of them, I think it's not enough. I don't have to add anything moral to that. You can do it yourself. You went to church this morning. Isn't it nicer to say that we're doing this for those kids now? That does not affect general policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u155	The difficult thing about governance, as Mr Asscher has done in all kinds of jobs, is that it should be with a warm heart, but also with a cool mind. We both know that. In the end, you will have to make a sensible decision at the same time. How do I best contribute to solving these kinds of issues? I sincerely believe that participation in this programme is not sensible at this time. That is my view and I am holding it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u156	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. Last time, things didn't go so smoothly between us. I don't know what's gonna happen today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u157	I think it's very smooth, Mr. Chairman. I can see it all working out. I shall begin by answering the questions on personal protective equipment. After that, I'm gonna go over the questions about nursing home care. Then I go to the questions about the tests, then to the questions about their capacity and coordination, then to the vulnerable groups, then to the questions about education, then to the questions about research. And finally, I have a cube of varia. Seven cubes and a cube of varia. Mr. Chairman. The personal protective equipment. Let me begin by removing a misunderstanding which has arisen because of my unfortunate response to personal protective equipment yesterday at the press conference. I responded to a question related to the duty of care, namely: does the duty of care cease when the personal protective equipment is too tight? You can also hear the answer in a different way. In that, you could read that I would have replied to the question whether there is a lack of personal protective equipment, that would not have happened. Of course, that's not true. We spoke about this in the Chamber last week. We discussed this in the Chamber the week before. I hear it every day on a job visit. I can hear it from the inspection. Of course, the demand for personal protective equipment is very strong, in nursing care, in community care. There's a big cut. That cut-off hits employees right away. It directly affects the personal safety of employees. That is why we are doing everything we can to ensure adequate personal protective equipment. I hope I've corrected that with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u158	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u159	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of what we are doing to provide sufficient personal protective equipment. Let me start with the division. A number of questions have been asked about this. Does the Minister also direct that division? The answer is yes, because it is necessary. Over the past period, we have looked at a number of ways in which we could make this distribution work properly. We first asked the GGD GHOR to look at the best possible distribution based on the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. In the first instance, this division was mainly directed towards acute care. That also makes sense, because at that time most of the patients were there. But that situation has, of course, changed by now. Because the care situation in which these personal protective equipment are needed is no longer just acute care, which now also applies to, for example, those covid centres, which are located outside hospitals. Those are actually very similar situations. So then, the OMT, the Outbreak Management Team, advised on the question of what care actions and in which care situations you need which type of personal protective equipment. At the moment, last night Martin van Rijn talked about this with the sector "Outlook', a new distribution model is being developed. A number of groups have asked the question when the new distribution model will be completed. I, Martin van Rijn, do everything we can to ensure that this new distribution model is completed before the Easter, because it is necessary to ensure that all these staff are able to count on sufficient personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u160	These were the comments on those protective equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u161	Well, there were others, but I thought maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u162	Okay. Maybe it's okay to just... Mr Wilders on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u163	The minister says he's coming up with a distribution model soon. That's good. But on behalf of a lot of people working in health care: when is it arranged? So I am not asking when the distribution model is arranged, but when all the people from home care to domestic care, from hospitals to nursing homes, from neighbourhood nurses to general practitioners, when those people who need it have their protective equipment. When's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u164	I just said that before the Easter we want that distribution model finished. That is what we are doing with the sector as a whole. But, Mr. Wilders, the honest answer I have to give you, too. I said last time and the week before that: I just want to tell you the honest story about these protective equipment. The fair story is that there is scarcity; there is scarcity all over the world. These personal protective equipment are scarce in all countries of the world, including the Netherlands. We're doing everything we can to make sure we buy enough. We are doing everything we can to ensure that we get the production out of the ground here in the Netherlands, that we get the raw materials to pull that production out of the ground in the Netherlands. That is what we are doing to ensure sufficient personal protective equipment. In the meantime, we know that there will be scarcity, including in the coming weeks. That is why we need to distribute this scarcity in the best possible way. That's what the new distribution model is about. You are absolutely right: making a good distribution model does not mean that it will be arranged everywhere tomorrow. An emergency stock is therefore available in the ROAZ's, i.e. in every region where this distribution is applied. The inspection is of course very accessible at the moment when you as an employee are faced with the task of carrying out a care operation and you do not feel sufficiently protected. There is even better instruction to be given in which care situation you need which type of personal protection. Because that can also contribute. We will also have to do more to ensure that we also re-use existing personal protective equipment as effectively as possible. All these things have to be done. But all these things won't take away the scarcity tomorrow. If I could have done it, I would have done it a long time ago. But all these things aren't gonna take away the scarcity tomorrow, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u165	I just can't get an answer to my question. I didn't ask you how and when you're going to divide the scarcity. Unfortunately, I now understand that the whole of the Netherlands understands that things are not in order now and that there are not enough protective equipment. So my very simple question is: when, from what point in time do a lot of people at home or people who are now working hard in health care and are seeing this later, do these people now get their protective equipment? The question is not when the scarcity is distributed. No, when do they get that? Mr. Secretary, terrible things are happening in the care now. There are carers who have their hearts in the right place and are all in tears because they're afraid they're infected, that they're infecting their clients or that they're at home sometimes they're infected with an indication that they're sick or have a heart problem. They just can't and dare not do their job anymore. Even in the nursing homes, as we read in a newspaper, employees prefer to work in a department with patients who have corona, because that is the only place where they get protective material. Those are insane, kafkaesque situations. So, I ask this Minister one more time: do not tell you what you ordered or how you are going to distribute the scarcity, but please tell the Netherlands when the problem is resolved. Is that tomorrow? Is that next week? Is that in a month? When can you say that everyone who needs it has protective equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u166	Even now, people in nursing homes and in the neighbourhood care sector are getting as good a share as possible of the available protective equipment. It runs through the ROAZs. This only runs on the basis of a distribution model which I find and which everyone believes is not sufficiently focused on the current situation. It started with the acute care, where most patients were, but you can see that the patients are now also found in the neighbourhood care, at home and in the nursing homes in care situations. The distribution model therefore needs to be adapted. And yes, that's going to help to better divide the scarcity, better in terms of more responding to those care situations. But tomorrow too, there'll be a knack and the day after tomorrow there'll be a knack. No matter how much we buy and no matter how much we take in our own production, there's gonna be a crunch in the morning. I can't get rid of that cut-off. I can't do that. What I can do is do everything I can to provide enough supplies and distribute them as much as possible. You can hold me to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u167	Once again, the Minister does not answer. He says not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow. But I ask: when? You can't get away with not answering them. Again, that just means that people who are watching television right now or working nights at the nursing home will hear from the minister: it might take weeks or maybe even longer before you can go to work protected. It means that every day they run the risk of being infected themselves or infecting their clients. So I find it inconceivable that you cannot say now: I will make sure that it is settled on that date. How you do it, I don't even want to know, but when are you gonna do it? You can't get away with it right now as a minister and say, "I don't know, folks. Fuck it. I'll do my best, but I can't tell you when it's coming." So for the last time, and please give a clear answer, I ask the Minister: from when can you say that the problem with protective equipment for those heroes in care has been solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u168	I think I have already given a clear answer to that, namely an honest answer. That honest answer may not be easy to digest, but that is the honest answer. I think we are helping each other with a fair story here in this Chamber and at all in politics. To pretend that anyone here at this moment could promise that there will be no shortage tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, while this scarcity in the field of personal protective equipment is there all over the world and playing in all countries, is really fooling people. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u169	It is good that the Minister just indicated that these problems are already there. At yesterday's press conference, that seemed to be a bit obscured; that's how it came across to people. It is therefore a good thing that this is also clearly stated. It's hard work, but there's just people left empty-handed. My question is what the Minister's reaction is to the lack of conscience of those care workers who say: I can't actually work, but I can't abandon those people. They're really worried about that. What is the Minister's answer to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u170	The first is that there is an emergency stock available at every ROAZ to supply people very quickly when the need is indeed so high that one is completely out of stock. That's one. Two is: within each ROAZ you also have to ensure a good distribution. That's really the job. If that goes wrong, it's worth reporting. Then we'll intervene. We do this through the inspection and also through the ROAZ. So the intervention of ours is happening. Unfortunately, this has happened a number of times in recent weeks. Three is: V&VN has made a good handout about how you can deal with the dilemma that you need to take care of but feel insufficiently protected. In some cases, the level of protection, i.e. the type of mouth caps that one thinks are needed, does not correspond to what is actually needed on the basis of expert advice. The FFP2 masks, the masks used on the ic's, are not necessary for all care. For this purpose, the OMT has made a good hand-out, but this knowledge is not yet known everywhere. In addition, you can report to the inspection if you really feel like you're going to face that professional dilemma. The inspection therefore intervenes. That's what's happening now. Luckily, those reports are being made, too. Of course, you're hoping it's all not necessary. Our job and Martin van Rijn's job is therefore to buy as much as possible 24 hours a day. That works when it comes to placing orders. It's about incredible numbers, really millions and millions of orders. But those orders have to land on Dutch soil. Only then will it be useful and only then can you proceed to division. Well, we're getting a better look at the question. The distribution is getting better and better. The distribution model was still too focused on acute care. This should also focus more on long-term care. That's what we're working on right now. I said that for Easter the distribution model must be completed and that is the way it should be distributed. What is also going to give us relief: all the ways that are being developed to re-use stuff. The new production will also provide lighting. There are many millions of new production in the pipeline. It's gonna start running from mid-April. We want to build up to over a million a week in our own production. We now have three own producers for the FFP2 masks only. In short, everything happens. I really don't know what else we could do. I'm open to any suggestion that even more mouth caps should be provided with more personal protective equipment. They're all so necessary. It does lead to a lack of conscience. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u171	I also believe that it is being worked with man and power, but the result, as I said, is not always satisfactory. I am sorry about the redistribution. Last week it was: it's almost finished. Now we're a week later and now it's Easter. That is good, but it takes a lot of time, in my opinion too much time in these precarious circumstances. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he says that anyone who thinks that it is really not possible in practice should report this to the inspection so that there is a clear national picture of the deficits that exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u172	Sure, that's definitely necessary. Why is this division so complicated? The first question is: what type of actions do you need which type of protective equipment? Next: what are these types of actions most common? And then it's about division across sectors. This should lead to a distribution model, which also the sectors say: yes, this is in line with reality as we experience it. That's easier said than done. We just have to be honest about that. But, like I said, before Easter, it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u173	I'll take a look. Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Ellemeet. Is that right? Yes. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u174	I think it is a good thing that the Minister comes back to what he said yesterday, because many caregivers are really freaked out and are just really upset about that. What surprises me, but also worries me, is that we are hearing a lot of words from the Minister again today, but that I have not actually heard anything that is of benefit to health care professionals. The Minister straightened out yesterday's press conference by saying: I thought it was about another question. The question was about the completely inhuman choice that carers still stand for every day: am I going to do my job unprotected because I want to help people, with perhaps the risk of getting infected or infecting my vulnerable target group? Of course, that question still stands. There will be no answer to the question of what those caregivers can expect from this minister. Yes: "Easter is the distribution model ready." But that distribution model is still a distribution model in scarcity, while of course this problem is not new. We've been talking about this for weeks. And we've given him options. One option was: own production. My question is: why does it not start in two weeks? An option was also: in other sectors inventory what might still be on the shelf. Did you get anything from that inventory? And can caregivers count on anything? We can't run away with each other today and tell carers: we don't really have an answer to your problem; wait until Easter, because then there's a new distribution model.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u175	No, but of course that's not the answer either. You're right. Yesterday I gave an unfortunate answer to the question: does the duty of care lapse if there are too few mouth caps? That's a question you can't answer, of course. 'Cause who would do that in health care? Anyone who's used to caring for an older person and who loves them, would abandon the older one? This shows exactly the enormous lack of conscience in which people can enter nursing homes in the event of a lack of mouth caps. And yes, that lack is indeed experienced, surely. And there's just this lack of conscience. But if we are asked what we are doing for these people in the care, then the answer is somewhat longer than Mrs Marijnissen is now recapitulating. We'll do whatever we can with regard to the purchase. I really do not know what else is possible in terms of purchasing, to get stuff from outside the Netherlands to the Netherlands. The Chinese route is the most important. The second thing we do is everything to get new production off the ground. This production will be built up to over 1 million a week in the coming weeks. That's a lot. I do not know how much faster it could have been or how much faster it could have been, except by adding more factories to it. I know that Mr Van Rijn is working on more factories. I really think that's the maximum speed we could make. The third is the reuse. Here too, we encourage and support all re-use initiatives. There is no financial limit to doing what is necessary. I say this honestly because I think that in this field we should also be really honest about what our possibilities are or aren't. This will mean that it will still be a question of dividing up scarcity in the near future. It's really still a matter of dividing scarcity, and you want to do it as honestly as possible. That's what the distribution model's about. That doesn't work again until it works in practice. In the meantime, if you feel as a care worker that due to a lack of protective equipment it is not possible to do your job in a good way, you will of course be the first to report it to your employer. If that doesn't help, report it to the inspection and report it to the union. The union was also spoken to this morning. There are many ways to report, so that we can then make the intervention in the direction of ROAZ, because every ROAZ always has an emergency stock available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u176	The Minister often says 'I want to give an honest answer' and 'we are doing everything we can', but the only honest response to that is of course: it is simply not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u177	But then what's a good suggestion for what else I could do? 'Cause then I'd say, put it on the table, and I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u178	I have just done a few; that in the first place. You always don't answer that. The question is, for example, what else is there in other sectors, is it inventoried and when will that become available? We can't get an answer to that all the time. A second point is that, of course, this is not new. This has been going on for several weeks. I can now hear you say that own production will be started and that it could possibly be 1 million mouth caps. We heard Minister Van Rijn on television saying that 4.5 million mouth caps per week are needed. With our own production of 1 million, we may not get close to what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u179	That's a quarter of what it takes. That's quite a lot. In addition, a lot of surgical masks are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u180	Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u181	Excuse me. I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u182	The Minister may interrupt me, but he constantly does not answer the questions. I think that's important: when do healthcare professionals know that they have enough protective equipment to be able to do their job safely? Always giving the answer about the honest story and saying "we're doing everything we can" is simply not enough. We give options that may be possible. It might have been possible to start with its own production earlier. But much more important is the question you said yesterday: it does not play. Of course, it plays in the lives of caregivers, every day. At the moment we are standing here, they have to make that assessment: will I provide care with risk to their own health or with the risk of infecting my vulnerable clients or residents? What does the Minister say to those caregivers? He says that question doesn't play, but it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u183	I say to those caregivers that they can count on this Minister, Mr Van Rijn and at all the Cabinet, to do everything, to do everything in their power to ensure more personal protective equipment, that the Cabinet does everything, but really everything, to ensure a fair distribution across all those sectors of care that are currently in short supply and that I really do not know what else could happen, but is open to any suggestion that could contribute to that. I also say: are you worried about me now? Am I sufficiently protected or am I protecting the clients I have to take care of? Then you can report to the union, because we made an appointment with it; you can then report to the inspection, because he simply has a job in it. That's what we can do. We try to deal with this as best we can in this phase of scarcity. This is not only happening in the Netherlands; it is currently taking place in all the countries of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u184	Mr President, just a moment. The minister says that caregivers can report to the union and report to the inspection. But that union just rang the bell yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u185	Yeah, and that's why we talked to that union this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u186	This union is currently in doubt: should we not say to our supporters, to the people who work in the care sector, that they should just stay home? Is it, at a time when you can't do your job in a safe way and maybe put people at risk for whom you want to take care of, maybe but better that you stay home? That question plays a full part in the care. The union just rang the bell, put out a cry for help. The union has said: solve this! Then the Minister cannot get away with everything again with the caregivers and say: report to the inspection or to the union. No, the inspection said in the briefing this morning that there are unsafe situations. The union said yesterday that there are unsafe situations. The Minister must not deny these problems but solve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u187	This Minister does not deny any problem at all, this Minister is doing everything he can to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u188	I fear the Minister is right when he says that there is now scarcity. We will have to do everything we can to eliminate this scarcity as quickly as possible. I do have some ideas on how at least we can do the best we can to divide into scarcity, which we are dealing with for the time being. I hear from people who work in healthcare, that certainly smaller healthcare providers orzzp'ers are not in the picture with for example the ROAZ or GGD GHOR. The big ones are still visible, but the small ones aren't. That's a lot to add up. I would like to ask the Minister the following. Discuss it now and come up with a solution for all thosezzp'ers in healthcare, those little care providers who say: I'm not at all in the picture. That's one. Two is that we see that there are great differences between regions. In one region, scarcity is a much greater problem and in the other it is less. It would, I think, be extremely important if, in this national coordination that we want, we could also take account of the possible transfer of funds from one region to another. That requires perseverance. Someone has to make that decision. So I would like to ask the Minister: is that in the picture and can this also be operationalized as soon as possible? I want us to get started on this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u189	Both options are in focus. Both options are on the table when Mr Van Rijn talks with all sectors. The smaller healthcare providers are also represented. They're at the table, too. I also call it pgb, because that's where it plays. There too it is not easy to obtain personal protective equipment. So I think it is important to take it well into account in this distribution proposal. This must always be done on the basis of the content. So what kind of care is it? What type of protective equipment is appropriate to this care operation? And in what way can you get there as well as possible? So the answer is yes. Then divide it between the regions. You should actually do that on the basis of a good estimate of the number of healthcare providers per sector where the type of care that requires these protective equipment takes place. And then you have to look at how many of those types of healthcare providers there are in that region. And indeed, you also need to be able to redistribute supraregionally. We do everything we can to buy and make as much stuff as possible and distribute it as fairly as possible during the period of scarcity. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u190	What I get back is that this inventory needs to be even better and that we really need to look very quickly at how we can use the resources available where the need is greatest. I take it from the Minister's words that he says that we are going to operationalise this as soon as possible, as far as I am concerned tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u191	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u192	Then I have a specific question. Care workers are under stress. Mrs Marijnissen also mentioned this. They say, "I have to make that choice now." They say: I have complaints, I have a cold or I have other health problems, but I don't want to abandon my patients; what am I supposed to do? There's no clear answer to that. Then the Minister here can say that they have to go to the inspection, so he can refer to anyone, but it would, I think, be a great help if the Minister could give an answer to that pressing question here in this debate. That's a question from a lot of care workers. What do I do when I have health problems? Do I have to stay home because there's no protective equipment? Or do I have to go to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u193	I think that answer is clear. Of course, we have the general advice to the public that if you have colds or flu-like symptoms, so trouble or cough, you should stay home. We can't afford to say that to the people in the care. If we said that to the people in the care, the nursing homes would be shut down in the near future. That's why we had to give care a different type of instruction. That was also based on the advice of the Outbreak Management Team. Fortunately, however, we have now managed to increase the test capacity. So where before only the people within the hospitals could be tested, we can now also make the tests outside the hospitals, so in the nursing homes, in home care, accessible. In a week's time, that test capacity has been greatly expanded. Since last Monday employees can be tested with complaints. That is an alternative to the situation before that. So the situation has improved. As soon as you have milder symptoms, you can have colds, troubles or coughs tested outside the hospitals. If you had a fever, you'd have to stay home anyway. That helps. Not enough, of course not. Because in the end, you also need those personal protective equipment. But it gives a little more sense of security and something more a sense of "Aren't I the one who infected my residents, my clients?" I think that is at least a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u194	Good. Then I'll go to Mr. Pieter Heerma. And I have to say that the Minister has spoken a minute and a half and has been interrupted for almost half an hour, while he still has a lot of questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u195	However, many of the questions raised in the first term of the Chamber are about this block. So where we saw last time that the first block lasted the longest, I think this might also be the case here. As far as the prioritisation and division of the various sectors are concerned, I have a question which is somewhat in line with Mrs Ellemeet's first question. The Minister has already indicated that he believes that the distribution model should be improved and that this will be done before Easter. Will the smaller institutions, thezzp'ers, be better looked at? To precisely those places from which the signals now come 'we are not heard enough', because especially the large institutions are very much represented. Is that something that's addressed in the new distribution model we're getting for Easter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u196	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u197	Mr Asscher has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u198	I understand the answer very well, but I also find it vulnerable when you're talking about the nursing homes. We see that the Amphia Hospital has chosen a policy whereby they send people with mild complaints home. The absenteeism has been reduced there and they no longer see infections from staff to patients. We see how vulnerable these nursing homes are. Isn't it better to say: if you have any minor complaints, stay home and get tested. If you run a negative test, you still go to work. This is one of the questions that a lot of employees are struggling with. We can see that 40% of the nursing homes have already been hit. As it is now arranged, I find a very high risk for very vulnerable residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u199	Your question about the Amphia Breda I actually had in the next block. Of course, general hygiene guidelines apply to all employees in nursing home care. We have, of course, taken a rather drastic measure by actually restricting the visit to nursing homes, so that there would be much less circulation. Indeed, the virus can only be transmitted through people working in the nursing homes. At the moment it is being investigated whether that is actually the infection harbor in the nursing homes. RIVM hasn't given a ruling on that yet. We just don't know. In any case, what is helpful is the extension of the test option, as you say it could go. You feel complaints. Then you report to your own supervisor or to your own company doctor. Then he and the GGD in the region make the appointment that you can get tested. So that's exactly what the new policy is from this week on. So that helps. Whether it is exactly the policy they have in Amphia, I have not been able to figure out in this short term. But that helps. A few weeks ago, when we announced this general measure, we were not able to say generically to the employees in the care, but to other employees, was: with the lightest possible complaints, stay at home! If we had, the nursing homes couldn't be run at all. Of course, it's just flu and cold time. So you couldn't have. Whether this is a source of contamination is not mentioned. That's one of the investigations RIVM is doing right now. But the new test policy, I would say, does indeed help to test employees much faster. So indeed: the moment you have complaints, you can be tested and then you also know within a day what you are up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u200	I get this, but my question was exactly whether, because of the extreme vulnerability in the nursing homes, you shouldn't choose the line that, now that you have that test capacity, you won't be working on those minor complaints until you've taken that test. Then you haven't changed the whole care, but you know, if there's an infection in a nursing home like this, I've mentioned the examples in my input, which is awfully much people are going to succumb to it. So precisely because we are now beyond a few weeks ago, it seems to me from a security point of view that this might be a measure that could save lives again. Perhaps you'd like to come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u201	Yes, but with the remark that this can also bring with it the issue of continuity in the care. What we have is the extended testing policy. One can be tested for minor complaints on the same day that one has the complaints. Through your company doctor or supervisor you will be registered. Only that doesn't include you not showing up with those same complaints until you get the test results. By the way, the moment you get tested, it makes sense to wait for the test results to come back. I'm going to present this to the OMT in full precision, so I can come back to that. I took the step to the block of nursing home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u202	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u203	I very much recognise the concerns expressed by various groups about nursing care. The people in our nursing homes are the most vulnerable. They are also most susceptible to the virus; we can see that in the first numbers. We know from the death rates that there's underreporting. The numbers that RIVM showed this morning are about the number of locations where an outbreak has taken place. That's about a third of the total number of locations. That's a lot. That's just a lot. The number of cases of contagion within the nursing homes is not yet decided. The RIVM should, together with Verenso and a number of other data sources, look at what can be put next to each other in order to get a clearer picture of this. One thing's for sure: the nursing homes get hit hard. That's why we're facing a devilish dilemma with each other. Indeed, we have a visitor scheme that has been asked about earlier by a number of groups: is it not too strict, is it not too harsh, does it not affect personal, loving, human-oriented care as we know it in nursing homes? But as soon as such a virus outbreak takes place in a nursing home, there are always many victims there. I myself was in a nursing home in Sommelsdijk on Goeree-Overflakkee. That's really awful. The grief in that house is incredibly great, while they've done so much to keep the virus out of the door. They have taken all kinds of measures, but yet the virus came there and kept it in a devastating way. A difficult question to answer is the following. Knowing that, shouldn't we look at this visitor scheme to deal with it a little more relaxed, to ease it a little? I guess we just can't afford that. We cannot afford more flexible leave arrangements. There's something else we can do. There are many good examples in nursing homes where one is able to ensure contact with relatives in a good way. The last example I heard of this is that it offers the opportunity for carers to simply come and live in the nursing home so that from that moment on they are no longer a source of infection. That's a beauty of opportunity. In addition, there are all kinds of image bubbles, all kinds of forms to allow visitors to visit. We are doing very well to get these figures in a much better picture, and that is also what we need to do, but above all to put all these good examples next to each other and see if we can make them play a much more role in the implementation practice. I fear, boys, that we really have to prepare ourselves for the measures for nursing care to apply for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u204	I propose that we first answer all the questions that have been asked about nursing homes in one go. Then I see that Mr Wilders, Mr Heerma, Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij wish to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u205	Mr Azarkan has asked whether we should not pre-emptively test people. Preventive testing, so if there are no symptoms yet, gives a lot of false-negative results. Actually, that's not helping. Mr Wilders asked whether in the nursing homes healthy elderly people would be separated from sick people, partly in view of the policy that only a number of people are being tested and that from then on a department would be considered a corona department. Look, nursing care follows the treatment directive of Verenso, the specialists in old-age medicine. When the test capacity was still limited, a number of tests were indeed carried out and departments were seen as a covid department from that point on. From that moment on, the contact in that department was limited. People would stay in their rooms. That was true not only for the infected people, but also for the other people. The reality is that when people live together like a family, you see very often that the infection has already gone much further when it is discovered. But there is certainly a separation of care at the time that the infection has been detected. Now that testing policy can be extended, this test policy can also be extended. It will no longer be limited to the two, but it will also be extended to the number of tests carried out. The starting point is: separate nursing once the infection has been detected. That is the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u206	Have you answered the other questions? You'll have the opportunity, but I'd like to know how long you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u207	Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals asked if there is room for intermediate forms in the nursing homes, also for another form of togetherness. I have just said that there are very good examples of how you could do that. I think, above all, that we should put these good examples into practice in a good way. Mr Van der Staaij asked when separate housing could be arranged. That is being done at the moment. Last Monday, the last consultation I had with all the Directors of Public Health was to set up facilities like corona centers or units within nursing homes or corona centers just outside the nursing homes for a short stay for the people returning from the hospital home or the people who are not sick enough to go to the hospital, but still cannot be nursed at home. Brabant beat us to that. You can now see that other regions are setting up these places according to that model. By now, there are 4,300 places. It is still being built every day to realize that type of amenities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u208	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u209	Mr Heerma says that in nursing homes and inter-branch organisations, consideration is being given to countering loneliness and asking if that is what talks are about. That's consistent with what I just said. We see very good examples and we also see nursing homes that struggle with them even more. I think that we should use these good examples in all nursing homes, so we are working on that. Then there was a question from Mr Segers, I think the last one in this set: will the Minister make an appeal for mental care? The answer is yes. We have called for the offer to be strengthened, if necessary, with specialists, including outside specialists, for example mental caregivers and preachers. The professional association of mental caregivers currently has about 150 additional mental caregivers available. Additional support is also possible from churches and the Humanist Covenant. So, yeah, we'll do as much about that as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u210	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u211	What's happening in the nursing homes now is a real tragedy. We heard at the briefing this morning how many houses have already infected and also deceased elderly people. The problem, of course, is that these people are no longer admitted to hospitals. Some people in the nursing homes say to us: "We are actually becoming a kind of hospital as a nursing home. The elderly stay here, stand at the back of the list and are no longer included in the hospitals, let alone in the ic's. That's happening less and less." It is therefore important to have a very clear picture of what is happening there. If I understand the Minister correctly, he says that with the new test policy every older person in a nursing home who has complaints that look like corona is being tested from now on. So it doesn't happen anymore that there are no tests on people with complaints. And if they're tested and someone has the corona virus, they'll be removed from the housing unit and isolated separately from the rest of the housing group. Can I sum it up like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u212	The second one isn't. The second can also be in the living group, but in the own room and no longer in the joint room. It's about being nursed in isolation from the moment the infection is detected. And yes, the number of tests has been expanded to allow patients outside hospitals to test when there are complaints. Is that happening everywhere? I do not think so, because that has become possible since yesterday because of the increase in test capacity, but it is being worked towards this in the coming weeks. The Verenso treatment directive on the isolation of nurses is being complied with, and is being well respected, in nursing homes. From the moment the observation has been made, it is switched to an isolated nurse. Only, when it is found that there is an infection in a group and that group has lived together as a family until then, you often see that multiple clients in such a group are infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u213	But can the Minister also say here I'm sorry to ask you, but I'd like to have it sharp when? He says that directive has just entered into force. Okay. That is good news, by the way, that it has entered. So they're going to be tested now, and we're working towards it. Can you tell me how long that'll take? From when will older people in nursing homes with complaints always be able to be tested? Is that in two days? Is that in a week? I don't expect that to happen tonight, but from when? Then the second. You say that these people may not always be isolated in separate departments, but in their rooms. The problem is precisely what we were talking about earlier, namely that a lot of the employees there say: we are not protected. So at the moment that these people are not in the common living room, but that they are going to those people, unprotected, in their room and then the good employees go out, you are even further away from home. Then you should say that if you can do that technically and physically, you should put the people with that corona virus together in a department or something, but not in that own room when not all employees have protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u214	I'll come back on that first one in second term. I need to check the exact date on which that is possible. Then the second. There is a separate form of nursing. In a number of houses there is therefore a choice for cohort care. Then indeed residents are put together on the same wing. That depends very much on how the house works. People often also have their own room, so being in your own room is the easiest. Only if that then requires a lot of personal protective equipment because every time you switch from a room you have to dress up and undress yourself in terms of personal protective equipment is that very wasteful for the number of personal protective equipment. In short, there is sometimes also a different type of nursing. Most of the time I come across a housing group that the people stay in their own room from the moment the infection is detected. That actually makes the whole department look like cohort nursed. That's where cohort care is actually applied to the entire department from that moment on. Sometimes there are other variants. One has to decide in one's own house. In any case, the directive is separate care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u215	Yes, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u216	Mr President, last but not least. It is important to get that sharp, because a lot of family members can't go there and think it's very important what happens to their father, mother, grandfather or grandfather there. So I hear in second term when that starts. Thank you for that commitment. May I ask the Minister if he can take care of the following: someone comes at the moment he has corona, after having been tested in the nursing home, or together with others in a separate department or isolated in that department, but in that case the staff always has protective equipment. Those are at least the two options, aren't they? I don't think there's a third flavor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u217	No. By the way, that is also the case now. What you're saying is now the case. That is in line with the Verenso directive. The only point there is the scarcity. Anyway, we just had that conversation. But as a directive, what you are now saying is already the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u218	Yes. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u219	Good, but it's also about practice, of course. I would like to ask the Minister whether, when it comes to the allocation of these protective equipment, which are unfortunately scarce, he wants to ensure that in nursing homes as elderly people are not placed in a separate section with corona again, in order to protect the people who do not have corona but are isolated in their own department not only under the directive, but also in practice always have protective means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u220	Yeah, that's the bet. Of course. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u221	Then Mr. Pieter Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u222	I think that many elderly people, but also their relatives, understand that the measures in nursing care are necessary to protect people's health and life. At the same time, you also hear a great deal of concern and sorrow about the fact that the distance is so great, that the loneliness is so great, and also about the realization that this can last for months and that it can eventually become unbearable. The Minister states that he sees that there are positive, good examples. However, I also hear sounds from places where it doesn't happen at all. The Minister just indicated, in answer to my questions: we are working on it. Can he also indicate how the cabinet is working on it, how nursing homes and how the industry are working on it, so that in the shortest possible time, the good examples become the norm and no nursing homes remain where for months that contact is not possible in a modern smart way that fits in with the new normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u223	At the moment this is done mainly through the industry organisation, through ActiZ. In every region there is incredibly intensive contact with all members of the industry organisation. Almost the entire sector is a member of it. That's actually the fastest way to learn from each other's good examples. Brabant has preceded us, a little against will and thanks. There are really very nice examples of how that contact can actually take place. This must be done now in other parts of the country. We had to make that visitor arrangement when we saw how wrong it had gone in Brabant. At that time, we actually declared the Brabant regime all over the country. That helped, I'm sure. But it is absolutely true that we will not be ready until you have actually landed this new normal in every nursing home and at every location in this new situation. We're not there yet. But that's what we do through the industry organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u224	In my term I have also explicitly asked about the role of industry organisations, and yet I would also like to see these good examples, those solutions, brought together so that they are visible. For it may be that in Brabant solutions or creative ways have been found, while in other places it may take weeks to find the egg of Columbus. Can the Minister show in the next letter or in another way what is happening, so that it can inspire others, and that can become a standard for others?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u225	Yes, let me take up this question together with the industry organisations, making sure that we put those good examples in the window so that they can be seen for everyone. I would like to say to the House that I will pay attention to this in the next letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u226	First, Mr Segers has the opportunity to ask a question, then Mr Van der Staaij and then Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u227	This is a subject that is very close to my heart. To be honest, I found it heartbreaking to hear the stories of people living in total isolation, of people who can't get to their loved ones and who are sometimes a bit lost, lost any solidity now. At the same time, I was convinced by the numbers. The Minister does say: in 900, in a third of the nursing homes there is contamination. That's a really high percentage, so you really need to take those measures. I'm looking, with colleague Heerma, for ways in which we can learn from each other. And how can we ensure that something of that human measure, of compassion and of love becomes noticeable? One element of that is that spiritual care. The Minister writes about this in his letter. He actually says, "Well, that's different." So there are nursing homes that have a good arrangement for that and there are also nursing homes that find that a bit difficult. It's a point of attention, writes the Minister. Can I encourage the Minister to be a little more active on that? Can I ask him to share the best practices it's an ugly Dutch word "to share" with other nursing homes, so that there is help and a listening ear to those very existential questions that older people have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u228	Can I take up your question in such a way that I combine it with the commitment I have just made to Mr Heerma? We are talking about a personalized form of nursing home care at this time, about loving care at this time, and there is also sufficient attention to the personal situation of the elderly. Mental care is part of that. That is what you have repeatedly argued for. How do you shape that loving care at this time? In the good examples I will also include the examples of spiritual care. That way I will put those good examples in the window. Perhaps I can answer Mr Segers' question in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u229	It is good that the commitment has been made to return to these good examples and the opportunities that exist, especially for carers and partners. In fact, it is most poignant of them that this meeting is no longer there. I am also very much looking forward to what is still possible, even for the longer term. My question was about those corona centers. The Minister was just going into that, but my question was actually meant to be something else. The demand was aimed at people who work in, for example, a hospital or a nursing home, who sometimes have insufficient protective equipment, and who do have a vulnerable roommate. For example, they have a child with leukemia or there is an older roommate with underlying suffering. I hear from practice saying: it would be so nice if they could occupy one of those vacant hotel rooms for a while. Couldn't action be put on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u230	There are initiatives in this area. I know of a number of initiatives where this is exactly what is being done, namely giving room to carers who simply have to be in the vicinity of those they care for. So maybe next week I can tell you about that type of initiative. Then I will also mention what is needed and possible to help that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u231	Very good. For carers, but it can also be about hospital staff. There was also a doctor at the emergency room who said: I have a little girl with leukemia and you wonder every day what you do right. A temporary facility like this could help. So it's a good thing we're getting back to that. Then I have another follow-up question. If you reason from the corona centers, then that, also for patients, is in fact also preferred to offer all people individually the palliative care in a home situation. Because many voluntary organisations are wondering whether they are doing the right thing to offer their services in home situations with corona patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u232	Let me see if I understand your question. Is it possible to come and help people as a volunteer in the home situation? Is that what you're asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u233	Yeah, but there's also a hesitation. In the letter, the Minister goes into that too. Are people from voluntary organisations now, as they have always done, who provide help in home situations, also going back to the problem of personal protective equipment? Or should the policy commitment be more that we want people more in corona centres and that we help them from there with a limited circle of care workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u234	The general policy is, of course, "limit the visit." That is the general policy. It is not a prohibition to help each other, to do groceries for each other and to do that type of care or that type of support or volunteering for each other. Of course, it doesn't apply that way. Just keep your distance and avoid, by personal hygiene measures, that you transmit the contamination. You'll see. Of course, there are a lot of such examples. There's a lot of them in every town. So you see that happen a lot. Besides, there are those corona centers. But at these corona centers you have to imagine that this is really a serious form of care, actually a form of care between the nursing home and the hospital. The people who work there are just nurses. There, I think, is not so much voluntary support. In the nursing homes themselves, however, there are a number of volunteers that are simply needed to continue to provide basic care. That number of volunteers is simply seen as an employee, even when it comes to personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u235	We see that, just as we have had in intensive care before, we have to look at the nursing homes, but also at the care home, to see what is the best solution for these people, especially for the vulnerable patients who are infected. I'm getting two signals back on how we can improve the way we work. The first is about the care hotels. We have to be careful that this is not the solution for all patients who are infected, because, to name but a few, you don't have high-level beds in many hotels. So the call I hear from many people in the vvt sector is: make sure that we use all the nursing homes we have as optimally as possible for care. So I'd like a reaction to that. How does the minister look at these care hotels? Is that a last resort or does he want to do a lot of work on it already? My second point concerns the covid departments, the corona departments set up from the first-line residence and the grz. There you see the problem that by far not all beds are occupied because there is a shortage of material, but the bill for those stays is now laid at many nursing homes. That's a lot of pressure on the nursing homes. Would the Minister be willing to discuss this with, among other things, the nursing homes? Of course, we do not want to have that concern ready, that due to a shortage of material we cannot yet use those beds, but that we do say to nursing homes: here is the bill and pay only.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u236	The question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u237	The first is that we should not think in terms of or-or, but of and-and. This is also the task of the Directors of Public Health: make sure that you work in your region on capacity outside hospitals for people for whom medically it is not necessary to go to the hospital, but who can no longer stay at home, or for people who can actually go home, but can not take care of themselves at home or with their caregiver. They have to set up a different type of facility for those people. This is often a better and more humane provision than a hospital. A hospital environment is not necessarily an environment where you want to stay for a very long time. We see that this is arranged in all regions, with all tastes, all variants. I also think this is very nice. Sometimes they are indeed units within nursing homes that have become free, for example, because of the disappearance of geriatric rehabilitation care. It's not really the time for a new hip, so you see that rehabilitation care is very strong...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u238	So you agree with Mrs Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u239	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u240	You agree with Mrs Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u241	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u242	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u243	I agree with Mrs Ellemeet in that I do not express a preference: either one or the other. You need the whole palette in all kinds of regions. That's what's being sent on. With regard to financing. A large number of financing questions have been raised, but fortunately a lot of arrangements have been put in place to provide for this. I know that a number of designs of temporary care facilities are not so easy to put within the puzzle of that arrangement. We'll help with that. That's the shortest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u244	Please continue. You had arrived at tests. A great deal has been said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u245	Absolutely. Now we're gonna go to the testing and then we're gonna go to the capacity and the other blocks. The current test policy has thus been extended. This leads to a substantial increase in test capacity. Mr Baudet asked a question about this and I also thought Mr Azarkan. The capacity has been increased to at least 17,500 and with extended working hours from those laboratories to a much larger number of even 29,000. That start was made yesterday. You can see that the GGDs have all set up some sort of drive-intest street. It's really very handsome how quickly they've done that. Where's the big problem? That is in the stocks around the test capacity which has since been joined by all kinds of new laboratories and all kinds of equipment in those laboratories. Those stocks shall enable those devices to make full use of the test capacity. That's the art. It's about different devices. By device, I don't know how much stuff and dust you need to use it. And everything is potentially a shortage. So everything you can do to meet the shortages through purchasing, but also to get the production in the Netherlands off the ground. That's pretty good. At the same time, we must remain on top of the stocks very precisely, but we can manage the increased test capacity for the time being. In addition, we are also thinking about the use of these apps about how a different type of test policy in the next phase, in which you can also be smartly locked, apply, can be useful, in order to apply the measures we have much more precisely to those for whom the measures are intended. Now it's pretty generic: if you have complaints, you stay home. But wouldn't it be wonderful if you could do that much more specifically on those whose complaints are actually corona-related complaints? Well, then, you should know that. Then you'll have to test it. So in the end, I'd like to test more. That's what we're preparing for. This is what the advice is about that we had last Monday from the Outbreak Management Team: the test policy in the next phase can only go well if we can also do source and contact searches. Source and contact detection is the classic work of the GGD, but due to the amount of contamination it has become impossible to do so in the long run. So the Outbreak Management Team says that you can only do that if you can also technically support using apps. Which apps are the most relevant? That's a tracking app, so you know who you've been near. And that's an app that tells you what to do when you've been around someone who turned out to be infected. That's actually an app you can keep in touch with your doctor. Both apps exist. Both apps are currently being used. The second is already widely used in the Netherlands. The app that made the OLVG is really great and beautiful. That might just be him, but we're gonna take the next few weeks to make sure it's him. That first app is not currently used in the Netherlands. However, there are many suppliers in the Netherlands and outside the Netherlands who have opportunities to do so. I agree with everyone who says that this can only be used in the Netherlands in a good way if privacy can be sufficiently guaranteed. That makes sense. We're not Singapore. We're not China. We're not South Korea either. The privacy standards in the Netherlands are really a bit different. The countries we have to look at to learn from are usually European countries. You can also learn from all other countries, but certainly European countries have a similar view of privacy. So that's what we're doing. So over the next few weeks, we will take the time to prepare ourselves for that next phase in a very good way, as soon as possible but with as much time as it takes, where that new test policy and new trails will actually play a role again and where we technically support the classic GGD research with apps. But privacy should be at the top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u246	I want to know how far you are. You may also have noticed that no one, almost no one, adheres to the number of interruptions. I do not mind that in this case, because there are a lot of issues on which questions have been repeated a few times. So I'm just gonna give it to you. But first, I'd like to see if the Minister answers the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u247	I still have some questions to look into; that's fine. What about privacy? That's pretty much everyone's question. The only way we can use that app in the Netherlands is if it meets the privacy standards. So the development in the next few weeks or the selection of which app it should be, we obviously use external experts to advise us well in it... can only if this meets privacy standards. How is it handled with the part of the grassroots who doesn't have a smartphone? I think that is Mr Krol's support. Of course, the classical contact research of the GGD should continue to play a role there. That can also be done when we let those who do have a smartphone make use of those apps, that's the bulk of Holland's apps. By the way, those apps will always be in conjunction with the classic work of the GGD. So also the GGD still comes into play. Then you will again have staff available to interfere with Mr Krol's supporters, at least that part without a smartphone. How many people have to join in to make that app useful? The recent, in itself scarce, literature talks about 60% of the population. I am going to take a break there, because as we speak, at the moment, the first experience is gained in a number of other countries. I also think that we will have to wait and see. We will have to wait and see how it works, for example, in the UK, in Austria. But 60% is the number that now applies. Mr Wilders' question then is whether you should make that compulsory or whether it is voluntary. We'd rather do it voluntarily. We are, I think, not a country of government obligations. However, I would like to take a break, because if we know that the use has to be at a certain level before it is actually effective, it may be that you would enter at some point in time at that stage. But I agree with everyone who says: you have to want to start it voluntarily anyway, and you really should also want to act voluntarily. Moreover, there is now no legislation to make things compulsory. Mrs Ouwehand asked whether the Chamber could continue to have a decisive vote in this matter. We will be preparing for this in the coming weeks. In doing so, we wanted to respond to the advice of the Outbreak Management Team, which says: beware, if you go to that next phase, you can only do so under a number of conditions, and this was one of those conditions. We wanted to meet that condition. That is the reason to say: yes, we are going to do so; we are going to prepare ourselves for that. We need to get a selection of those two apps. We need to do this in a good and careful way. That's what we're gonna do. At some point, before 28 April, I shall try to do so, and I shall send a letter to the Chamber on this. Then we follow the usual procedure: if I have put it in a letter to the Chamber, it is the Chamber that can intervene with its instruments, by motion or otherwise. So that's what I was gonna do. I don't expect a formal pre-trial procedure or anything unless there's a need for a legislative change. Then, of course, the Chamber simply has its legislative responsibility. I would have had a lot of technical questions from Mr Baudet, which I had hoped would have been put to Professor Jaap van Dissel this morning, but I would also like to look at them briefly. This was the most important thing about the app itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u248	A question from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u249	The good news is that a poll shows I don't know what program I just saw it in; I think it was EenVandaag that 60% of Dutch people want that app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u250	Oh, that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u251	So we'll be out of the obligation right away. And again, an obligation doesn't work either, because of course you can't force people to take a phone outside. Besides, it's not enforceable. I had four conditions, and I would like to ask the Minister if he agrees. The data must be anonymous, there must be no transfer to the government, because we do not like it, and it must be open source software so that you can see the code and anyone who knows it can check it, as it happens in many other countries. And there must be voluntaryness, despite your reservations. Is that what you're aiming for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u252	Yeah, I'm very comfortable with those terms. I'd like to give the experts the opportunity to figure it out as well as possible over the next few weeks, but I'm just very comfortable with these conditions. Anonymous: yes, of course. No transfer to the government: yes, I can imagine that very well. Open source: I can also imagine that. For anyone who thinks "well is going to keep an eye on that app where I've been," I think it's good to say: it's not so much about your location; it's about the proximity you've had to the one that's been infected, or the proximity you've had, if you've been infected, to others you might have been able to infect. So it's not so much your location as the proximity that's central. That also means that there can be simply anonymity. I am told that all these conditions can be fulfilled. So I'm just gonna hang on to that for a while, because I just think they're understandable. This also seems to me to be the conditions that we will have to give in the next few weeks in the selection process to those who are working on it. Of course, I will come back to your Chamber to whatever extent it has succeeded. I hope that will work completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u253	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u254	This is good news. Let me also give a positive response and thank the Minister for that. He says now: it can be anonymous, it doesn't go to the government, it becomes open source and my commitment is not to impose it. I think that 60% of the people who want it now could be 70%, 80% or perhaps 90%. Then we have a great app and then we're gonna do a lot of good with this, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u255	I hope so. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u256	I was just counting my number of interruptions, Madam President, but it's just a free-for-all now. Anyway, that's totally out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u257	No, perhaps for people who cannot follow that: if only the Minister is speaking and you are through your interruptions, it is not a debate either. A few questions have also been repeated a few times. I don't count them either. Otherwise you will not have a debate, but a one-way street, and we do not want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u258	I'm just going to ask my question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u259	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u260	During the debate, I was presented with an incident via the app which I would also like to present to the Minister. It's about the price of a test for a care worker, who's really going up incredibly. So there are testers, people who are able to test, who are now suddenly asking for the grand prize for such a test. Hundreds of euros are involved. It scared the hell out of me. I find that extremely worrying. I can also give it to the ministers by name. It would be extremely undesirable for people now to take advantage of the scarcity, of this situation, and hand over a huge bill for testing care workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u261	That's odd, because the GD test is on us. The GGD is just testing the care workers outside the hospital on our account. Caregivers within the hospital are tested in the laboratories of the hospital. So that's on the hospital. Usually the employer pays there at all. If you are a patient in a hospital, that test is simply taken into account in the total cost of care of your stay at the hospital. In short, there should not actually be paid for a test by means of an own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u262	These are disabled care workers who are being tested at a substantial price.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u263	I would say: please send me that example outside the broadcast. Then we'll look that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u264	That's what we're gonna do, because this is behavior we can't tolerate. We need to stand shoulder to shoulder now, and we need all the help we can get when it comes to testing. That people would take advantage of that would seem very undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u265	Absolutely. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u266	Also about the app. I have heard very well what the Minister said at the press conference: it will be explored in the coming weeks and privacy is a prerequisite. But what if it doesn't work? At first I thought it was impossible, but privacy experts tell me that it might be possible with privacy terms. If it doesn't work, we need an alternative. I think that's also a condition before you even consider doing anything that violates our privacy rules. So my question to the Minister is whether, in the event that it is not possible, he is also looking at how the contact investigation can be shaped in a different way. Is that part of the reconnaissance process for the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u267	No. If I did, I'd accept that it wouldn't be possible. I am committed to going for the A-scenario, namely that it is possible. I also have all kinds of signals showing that it's just possible. The only alternative is simply the labour-intensive variant: let testing go hand in hand with the classical contact investigation of the GGD. With this amount of testing, you'll need so many people to do that contact search, that you'll probably be stuck for the time being in the generic measures we've taken. So this is actually a condition, a condition, in order to actually move on to a next phase. That's how the Outbreak Management Team describes it. For a part of the group, for example the supporters of Mr Krol, you just need the classic way of doing the GGD's. But I believe that this is only possible if you clear most of the people through a digital way of contact tracking. It's testing, tracking and reporting at home. That's the triple we want to make. For example, we have translated the OMT opinion. For that tracking, we really need that app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u268	Well, that's complicated to me. The coming weeks will be explored whether such an app can be maintained with our civil rights and privacy terms. If you're going to explore, then you should also look at the option that it doesn't work out and how we could organize it so, otherwise, that we're still achieving the goal? I would think it would be unwise not to take a little of that with you in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u269	Suppose that doesn't work... The Outbreak Management Team formulated it as a condition under which you could pass. You can only move on to that next phase if you are actually able to do that contact search again. In these numbers of tests, you are only able to do that if you have it supported by apps. Mrs Ouwehand says: prepare yourself for that source and contact research without using apps. The honest answer is: then it just doesn't work. So we will probably be left with generic measures for a longer period, which of course will not be without effect. In short, I sincerely hope that it will succeed in doing something with that app. But I do say: privacy clauses are simply a prerequisite. So if it doesn't work under those conditions, it won't work. That would be an extremely annoying message. Then it just doesn't work. That's too bad. So it's got to work. And that's what I'm going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u270	Of course, some alarm bells went off when it was said: we're going to work with an app. I believe that the Minister is now saying very clearly that privacy is a very tough condition. In an interview with Mr Sijbesma he said: it is an element to look at as well. I didn't think that was enough. I think the Minister is right to say: no, it is a tough condition. I still think it is important to emphasise that it is a component: it supports a broader approach. It is therefore not the case that this technology will completely replace the human approach. It's very important to name that. We see that in Germany the past few weeks have been focused on actively recruiting people who can help in testing and tracing. My question to the Minister is: are we going to do the same in the Netherlands? And is the Minister prepared, as the OMT has also advised, to initially look at PEPP-PT, this European-developed app with the starting point "anonymous and voluntary"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u271	The PEPP-PT is not a very good abbreviation, but it stands for something beautiful.. is actually just an agreement framework, in which all kinds of privacy terms are stated, as they are also anchored in the GDPR. This is a European cooperative society with a huge bunch of scientists working on it. We simply want to join this standard. Of course, I'd say. This also fits in with the way in which we attach to privacy terms and the way in which the security of personal data is handled. So the answer to that question is yes. Have you been recruiting a lot of people at the moment? Well, no. First we're going to select that app and then we're going to see how you can glue that app to the normal working process of the GGD. If that then requires you to need a lot more people, yes, then we should. But in that order. First, we need to select that app in a good way. We don't do that with our knees under the desk and on our own. Of course, we do this with everyone who knows it and can help us select the best, so that what comes next actually enjoys the trust of your Chamber and actually enjoys the trust of society. Thus, as Mr Wilders also said, we would not need any obligations to see a massive use in the Netherlands. 'Cause we're gonna have to get that 60%. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u272	In the block before that, we were talking about nursing homes. I would like to come back to that, because new figures have just come from Verenso. They show that the number of suspected infections in the nursing homes has increased by a quarter over the last two days. In my view, these are very disturbing figures. That's an exponential rise. So it seems that this silent disaster in the nursing homes is continuing at a very rapid pace. It is the combination of things: caregivers become ill, elderly people are in isolation, mortality rates are insufficient, and now an exponential increase in the number of infections. We heard this morning that there are infections in 40% of the nursing homes. The question to answer today is, I think, what does this mean about current policy so far? Because the number of infections is increasing tremendously and the problems are increasing tremendously. For intensive care, of course, we had very precise scenarios, with very precise figures. Isn't it time for the nursing homes to think about such a structure? Because I'm really afraid we just don't have enough of what's going on in there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u273	The first thing that needs to be done is there are now different sources and data is that we put the numbers together really well. That is not the case at the moment. So all the numbers that are now mentioned are incomplete and present only a part of reality in the picture. RIVM is doing that together with Verenso and with others. RIVM has said it takes a week to do so in a good way. That's one. Two. We have aligned our visitor's measure with the advice of the very same Verenso, precisely with the advice of the elderly medicine specialists. When we took over that measure, part of the nursing home sector was indeed saying: isn't this very rough? But now, indeed, the nursing home sector sees that it is simply necessary. By the way, a large part of the sector saw that at the time, especially in Brabant, because that's where it had already been seen. Three. You say "silent disaster." I dispute that the disaster is silent. That disaster isn't quiet. It's on the retina of Verenso, which is on the retina of the cabinet, which is on the retina of ActiZ. We are in the process of making this disaster as small as possible and where we can be, knowing that the most vulnerable people live in the nursing homes. Four is the agreement I have just made with Mr Heerma: to see how we can shape these good ways of dealing with them. If not only the corona virus, but also the loneliness virus demands its victims when you do not know how to shape the visitor scheme properly, we will have to do so in a good way. I shall return to that in the direction of your Chamber. At the moment, I don't have any extra measures for nursing care. Could a national coordination center help with nursing care? I don't think so. In ic-care, we were dealing in particular with top-regional transfers to make best use of national capacity. By the way, transfers can also be made between nursing homes at the moment, but that is often not the solution to what is needed here. Above all, what you need to do here is to ensure that the ways of working chosen in the nursing homes that are really ahead of them are applied everywhere. That's mostly what we're going to have to do here. And is there a need for more national coordination than is currently the case? I don't believe it, honestly. But I wouldn't be against it if it were. But I don't believe it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u274	Last question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u275	My fear concerns the following. If we now hear that the number of suspected infections has increased by a quarter over the last two days, I simply think that we should ask ourselves whether the measures we are taking are effective enough. Without pretending to have the full answer to that; absolutely not! 'Cause those numbers, of course, are terrifying. If that goes on like this! I would like to draw attention to the combination of things: both the lack of protection materials and health care workers who become ill and elderly people in isolation and the lack of a good picture of mortality rates, and now for the last two days an increase in the suspected infections by a quarter. That scares the hell out of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u276	That is why I am saying: shall we get the figures straight? I don't know these numbers. I don't know how to place them in relation to other numbers either. So let's start with the people who know the numbers, put those numbers together just as well. That's one. Two, I just indicated that a whole series of measures have been taken. Apart from the personal protective equipment, which we have discussed in detail, because, of course, it is necessary: a whole series of measures have been taken. And yes, some nursing homes manage better to combine that with a form of loving care. And we have work to do there. If those figures or the OMT opinion show that there is still a measure to be taken, then I am not against it. Certainly not, because we always take all OMT opinions. The question is, of course, what could that be? I couldn't figure out what more we could do for nursing care right now. But I'm not against the moment there'd be a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u277	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u278	So let's get these figures straight and keep our eyes open for Verenso, for ActiZ and for the OMT at the moment they come up with advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u279	What if you get those numbers straight? Then the room gets it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u280	Yes. I assume that will be the case next week. Mr. Chairman. That was a step back to nursing care. I've been handling the tests. I've been going over the apps. I think I've finished the "test" block with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u281	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u282	I would like to touch on Mr Segers' question about whether or not to reimburse the corona test. I'm getting e-mails about that, too. There's been some confusion. If the general practitioner ordered it, it would go out of his own risk. For example, if you haven't made that up completely, as a healthcare professional who is required to be tested, you will indeed have to pay for the corona test yourself. So my question is: is it possible to exclude this test from its own risk, so that people do not have to pay for this test, which may cost hundreds of euros?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u283	I wrote in the previous letter about the risk involved. That was a question from Mr Hijink from an earlier debate. At its own risk, it is as follows. If you as a patient are subject to the directive to be tested, it's probably part of your treatment at the hospital. This of course is part of your own risk, but you don't notice it, because the amount of your stay on the ICU or several weeks in the nursing department is so high that your own risk had already disappeared. If you are a care worker and are nominated by your employer for the test because you have complaints, then it is a test that is done by the GGD. This is the responsibility of the government, which will take that into account with the GGDs. In short, the tests are paid for. If there is a private test, I think that is the case here, then I do not know who ordered it. And why is that? And then why the employer doesn't just pay the bill himself, I don't know. That is why I said to Mr Segers: give me the address outside the broadcast. Then let's call after it. The extension of the test option is precisely intended to allow those who work in care and who simply need to be tested to be able to test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u284	The letter of inquiry is indeed clear. But if you look at the websites of health insurance companies, for example on those of VGZ, it says: if the GGD has the assignment, you don't have to pay. If the general practitioner gives the order, which rarely happens, then it will also be reimbursed. But then it's part of your own risk. So maybe the Minister can talk to the health insurance companies and ask them to make this clear on the websites, so that these kind of uncertainties can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u285	I'll take a look at it. I'll get back to you in the next letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u286	I was just reading the article in NRC that Mrs Marijnissen also asked about. I understand that the Minister cannot respond to this in his first term because he has not yet seen it. I cannot quite tell whether this increase is due to more measured than before, or whether it really is an increase of 26% in two days. Would the Minister like to see if he can come back to it in the second term, or else in a letter as soon as possible, to indicate the figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u287	Well, as soon as possible. Figures are not always easy to interpret. So we really have to let RIVM and Verenso do their job, along with all the other sources that are there when it comes to the numbers of infection and corona-related deaths in nursing homes. That's one, and that's just next week. I can't go any faster than that. Two is: I am going to see if, between the first term of the cabinet and the second term of the cabinet, I can take note of the NRC and respond to an article that I have not read yet, but which I have just heard of. Now that I say this, I am almost certain that the analysis will be carried out. Then the next block. In fact, it is quite remarkable that we have only come to talk about ic capacity so far in the debate. Who would have thought last week and the week before that? That is a very good sign in itself. What we see is quite special, and I really want to highlight that, namely that there are 1,408 covid-ic recordings at the moment. For the first time, there are fewer than yesterday: 16 less than yesterday. So no less: it's not the increase that's flattened, but there are actually fewer recordings. That's a first. Also, the number of covid-related patients not on the ic is lower. More patients have been admitted to Germany. That's a good sign, too. There have been agreements with a lot of German hospitals, so we can extend the second phase, in which we are now, the scaling-up phase. That's great good news. Of course, they're hopeful moves, but it's early. That's the first thing you have to say about it. It has been achieved because we have taken firm measures with each other and have adhered to them. We will only continue to achieve this at the same time as we stick to it. So I very much agree with everyone who has underlined the "hold on" message that we wanted to underline yesterday in the Prime Minister's words in the press conference. The second is that we should not draw the conclusion from those first hopeful messages that we can prepare for a phase of back to normal. No, it's not, because behind that huge development that the hospitals have been through, there's a lot to hide. The first is that the hospitals are currently running just at 200% of their ic capacity. This means that there are actually two hospitals made of each hospital at the moment, namely a covid hospital and a non-covid hospital. In that non-covid hospital all things happened that, of course, all of them happen. But a lot of planned and yet urgent care is not happening at the moment. That has to happen again. Mr Asscher has drawn attention to this and Mr Krol has drawn attention to it. That is right, and that should actually be restarted as soon as possible. Every hospital is thinking about that right now. If we don't do that, the secondary health damage that results from this may be greater than we already see with the covid-related damage. So what we need to do is start that planned but urgent care again as soon as possible. We have asked the NZa to take charge of it nationwide, along with Ernst Kuipers on behalf of the hospitals, to show the way. How are these steps to be taken? But every hospital I come to is working on that right now, because they say: yes, we could hold on for a while, that huge cut-out of capacity for the covid patients, but of course we can't do that for a very long time, because then the damage just gets way too big. So we must want to reduce the use of ic capacity, and even the use of covid bed capacity. That is precisely why we need to continue with this measure, so that there will be more room in the hospitals to also restart planned urgent care. I very much agree with that. Mr Asscher also said: pay attention to it in communication. Yeah, sure. I also ask Marian Kaljou of the NZa to make that part of the project she is now drawing. How are we going to communicate about that? There are quite remarkable phenomena in this, in the sense of people who stay away from fear: maybe I get infected when I go to the hospital. We can see that, as I heard this morning from Martin van Rijn, even in the pharmacy. Recipes are not picked up because people stay away from the pharmacies. This is even about chronic patients. We must therefore send a firm message that the care is of course just safe and that if you need care, you must take advantage of that care, because that is what it is for. So I would like to take that suggestion from Mr Asscher. Then a question was asked about the doctors' protocol on that black scenario. Last time we discussed the content in detail. On Mr Krol's statement, I also said that a hard age limit could not really be raised in the case of the cabinet. Life expectancy and survival are, of course, a completely different story, but a hard age limit cannot of course be allowed. In the meantime, the doctors are also saying that. The cabinet isn't alone in this. The NVIC, the club of ic-doctors, has made a first move for a directive on what should happen if that second phase... It is now hopefully going in the right direction, but we do not know whether it will continue and we always have to prepare ourselves for all the scenarios and that is why it is good that the doctors think about this. So the NVIC made a first move for that. The KNMG is now working on that move. We are doing what has been suggested here last time, namely involving all patient organisations, elderly organisations and other occupational groups, not only the ic-doctors, but also other doctors in the hospital. The broad medical world is involved. That's how the inspection looks at it. The KNMG is working on that. It's gonna be a while before that's done. It could be done next week, but I don't want to put any time pressure on that. The point is that the process is done in a good, thorough way. Next, Mrs Ouwehand's question is what the procedure is like. Last time, Mr Wilders asked for it. What's this procedure like? I already indicated at the time that the law doesn't actually provide for that playbook pandemic. This is a professional directive that is not so much enshrined in the law. At the same time, it must fit in with the thinking of the Wkkgz in particular. That law lays down a professional directive by the profession, in which the inspection is carried out. This is also the case in this case. We are now in phase 2, which we have stretched very much, fortunately more than what was strictly necessary. We also have the transfer to Germany; that's all still phase 2. For a transition to phase 3, I indicated in the letter the steps needed for this. The LPCS, the national coordination centre, then says: at the moment all ic-beds are invested. The LPCS would report that to the inspection. The inspection will check that signal with the presidents of all ROAZ regions. He then asks: is it really true that all ic-beds are currently invested? If that's the case, the inspection will report it to the Minister. The Secretary of State reports that to the Chamber. That's how the procedure works. Of course, we all hope it will never happen, but we have now come up with that procedure in accordance with the Wkkgz. A ministerial responsibility has been built into where it de facto does not exist in professional professional directives. Why are we building it in here? What's the ratio for that? This is not just a medical-content directive, but the stage in which you are no longer able to meet your medical-content standards because of the capacity and therefore have to scale down in the ic-quality. In any case, this requires a public notification from the IGJ to the Minister and the Minister to the Chamber, so that that is not something that happens just like that. That was the concern last time. It's being made public now, too. With that, we can back up the medical professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u288	Thank you for the clear explanation in the letter and in this debate. There really is an active decision of the inspection and the minister. I think it is a broad need in the medical world that people are supported by politics and the cabinet at the moment we enter stage 3. It is also good that all kinds of parties are now allowed to talk about the protocol. That's going to be the hold-up for doctors to make very difficult choices. I hope with the Minister that we will never reach that stage, but if it does, such a protocol will be an important basis. Can the Minister promise that once the talks are completed, the protocol will be widely communicated or at least accessible on a government site, so that everyone can take that up and people in the Netherlands will know what, should we ever end up in phase 3, then it will be the hold that doctors will use to decide who gets or doesn't get ic-care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u289	Yes, that must be communicated in an appropriate way. I don't know if the government website is the most appropriate place for that, but it needs to be public; it needs to be transparent. That was your wish, and I think it is precisely the wish of the medical professionals, so that people know that this is a way of working blessed by politics and society. That's what it's really about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u290	Fortunately, it doesn't look like we're going to be in phase three very soon, but you certainly never know. The Minister says: "How does it work? There will be a directive and suppose that phase 3 will come. After it has been verified, the inspection will be sent to the Minister." But what can you do if it contains something that is not medical in your opinion, as you write in your letter and also respond to the Chamber? Suppose there was still a hard age requirement in it, what can you do? You will then report it to the Chamber, but do you have an instrument to indicate that you do not consider that part acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u291	Two procedures are now in place. The first is the content of the directive. It is said that we will no longer be able to meet the normal standard of ic-quality in the third phase, if we ever get there. It is therefore necessary to redefine that third stage. In the last part of that third phase, even what is then called selection comes on non-medical grounds. That is no longer a normal form of medical triage, but on non-medical grounds. Last time I spoke out loud about this, the Prime Minister did it out loud, and you all did it out loud, and it is not acceptable to have a hard age limit in it. At the moment, the law does not provide for an intervention option, if the directive was to contain it... I don't expect that at all, because doctors also say that they actually understand that. Still, I understand the eventuality in your question. Right now, the law doesn't provide for that. In the letter to the Chamber, I stressed that at that time I will also endorse the cabinet's position by means of legislation that this is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u292	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u293	Okay, then it's clear. So basically goes... Most of the time, except in the final phase of phase 3 medical considerations, the doctors have to deal with and not us. But what you're saying is, what if in the final phase of phase 3 there's going to be something that I don't think is medical and which I don't think is acceptable? Then you can and are willing to do so again, it does not look like it is going to happen in order to avoid that through legislation, which will then have to become emergency legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u294	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u295	I'm very relieved. Last week it seemed quite real that we would be dealing with this scenario. Fortunately, this pressure has now been removed, so that there is enough time to discuss the directive with everyone who should say something about it. I understand from the Inspector General this morning that this has happened now. That's great, but I still have two questions. The first one is about the phase we're in right now. We must have political responsibility for the decision on the next stage, because it means that you cannot deliver the acceptable quality of care anymore. But right now, in the scale-up phase, we have to accept that care isn't what we're used to, so mistakes are being made. They may also be fatal. Is that currently also covered by law for the people who have to do their jobs under these circumstances? For example, we see that the nurses are right to say: "Normally we keep an eye on one or two ic patients and now three or four. If I make a mistake in that, I find it very annoying if that is on my plate." Is that legally covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u296	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u297	Good. Glad to hear it. Then my second question, looking back at last week's debate. Mr Gommers said it a week or two ago. The limiting capacity is not necessarily "you have enough beds and enough equipment" but staff. That's all you can get out of it in the end. This weekend we saw that the nurses were worried about the discussion that is going on: can we stretch the scale phase even further? Can the cabinet say it's always about those three tracks? What if we need more than 2,400 beds? Are there really the number of beds and the equipment, but also really the human capacity there? People shouldn't think they're gonna be squeezed out, that they could add a few more patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u298	A very fair question that fits in with a very legitimate concern in practice. Martin van Rijn has made it quite clear that, as I said earlier, this 2,400 is already over 200% compared to normal capacity. It is an enormous effort that hospitals are currently making at the expense of a great deal. We can't even look at everything exactly at the expense of everything. That is why urgent and planned care must be restarted as soon as possible. At 200% of you can't run very long. We also have to hope that it can scale down a bit as soon as possible, so that you can normalize it again. Also in the deployment of staff, in what you ask of staff. At the moment, for example, you can see that a lot of staff is being taken off the ok's. It is very nice how these new teams function in no time, but it is also good at some point if we start normalizing a bit. What we have to do is say: this is about the max, that 2,400, that you can scale up in the current way. If we have to scale further in phase 2, we first choose the route Germany. There can be a lot more, again this week than last week. That's really impressive. That's some kind of neighborly help that's really helping you out. In phase 3, we think of a form of selection when you have two patients and one bed, but the first part of that third phase is about a very highly scaled form in quality of still ic-care, organized in a different way, with a different type of people organized than the current people who have to arrange the 2,400 beds. So it's organized in a different way. For example, we will first increase that capacity, but that should not be at the expense of the people who have now taken care of the 2,400.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u299	I suggest you move on. You must also go to a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u300	Yes. The nurses must be able to take part in the decision-making process in health care institutions, says Mrs Ellemeet. I very much agree with that. Of course, things are happening in the institutions themselves. The IGJ will also draw attention to this where necessary. In addition, we had a good talk with the Chief Nursing Officer to ask if she also wants to be involved in the BAO, the Administrative Agreement Consultation, to translate the OMT opinions into practice and she does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u301	I suggest you proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u302	Fine, Mr. Chairman. Mr Dijkhoff asks: do the staff actually have enough recovery time? Of course, this is something employers need to discuss with their employees. Anything is possible in collective agreements. Standard agreements have also been made, but at this time try to keep standard agreements. What we hear and see fortunately is that employers try in a very good way to give their employees a little breathing time after a tremendous amount of effort. I think that is necessary. Where can employees get support? Mr Dijkhoff asked that and Mr Segers asked that. There are a number of initiatives, which we also support nationally, to provide adequate psychological support. That is an initiative of Strong in your work of the union CNV and the employers' association RegioPlus. This is about mental support and they refer to it if necessary. Employees who register for twelve hours on the site will be emailed back the same day and otherwise for twelve hours the next day. In addition, the coaches refer to the contact point psychosocial support care professionals of ARQ IVP for complex psychological assistance questions. That contact point is manned by specialist psychologists and is accessible seven days a week from mid-nine in the morning to half-ten in the evening. That is a second initiative that we support from VWS at the moment, for that reason. Then I think I've had this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u303	Let's talk about the nurses. For a reason, I have made a proposal with the VVD to strengthen the position of nurses in health care institutions. We are now seeing how much that is needed, because these nursing counsellors are often dismissed. This morning Mrs Van Diemen indeed indicated that this is a valid point and that she is going to work on it. I would like to ask the Minister to see what he can do to bring this to the attention of the institutions, because it is simply extremely important that these nurses are heard and are able to take part in the decision. What can the Minister himself do in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u304	The most important thing we do is ask the Chief Nursing Officer, Bianca Neighbor, to translate those OMT recommendations into practice with us. It has, precisely from that implementation practice, the knowledge to judge what works and what doesn't. It is therefore, with a number of members of V&VN, leading in the translation of those OMT opinions to, for example, ic practice, or to nurse practice at all. That's what we do nationwide. For the rest, it really has to be done in those institutions. It's good to have an eye and an eye for that. We will, of course, do so in all expressions. But it's really up to the inspection to see to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u305	Thank you for the answer on recovery time. That's about now. I understand there's very limited time for that. My question was actually a little broader. Now you can physically recover some. But this morning, during the briefing, it was said nicely: when the adrenaline goes down, if hopefully the ic-capacity again is around 100%, and if doctors and nurses from this bizarre situation go to a situation that looks a little bit more like what it was like, then of course society soon calls for more space. Then they want to go to a smart open-up. When can this be done and to what extent can it be done? In doing so, account must also be taken of the catch-up care that is still available. It is therefore necessary to take into account a somewhat longer recovery period, where there is a need to check the extent to which trauma has occurred. What do people need now, perhaps longer than usual, to get back to work? We have to take that into account in the burden of the care that there is then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u306	That is absolutely true and fully in line with what the OMT said yesterday. Our anchor points in this approach are always dual: do we adequately protect our vulnerable people and can the care cope? We have these two anchor points in our approach and in the alignment of all our measures. The OMT has said: before you can even think about that next phase, you have a number of conditions to meet. One of those conditions is indeed: can the care cope? That question of whether the care can handle it is a broader question than: do we have enough ic-beds? When asking whether the care can handle it, it should also be considered what the "side damage" is in conditions other than covid. Those other conditions should also be given room in that hospital. If you are going to normalize something in terms of ic-capacity, this also means restarting other forms of care. Otherwise, mortality rates are going to increase in those other forms of care, and you shouldn't want that at all. In short, it is absolutely true what Mr Dijkhoff says; this is really the condition for doing something about scaling down measures at all. And we must be able to provide sufficient support for this at the time when, in the run-up to 28 April, we are going to launch a further phase. Mr President, I am going to the next block, about the vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u307	Well, you often have about 18 cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u308	Well, I actually have seven, the number of fullness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u309	You know exactly what subjects there are. I would like to propose that they be merged and that things that have already been discussed in the course of interruptions should be omitted. I would suggest that you try to go to a conclusion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u310	Yes. Mr Asscher asks whether we can accept the approach to domestic violence by France and Spain. We are in the process of intensifying our approach to domestic violence. We are preparing a campaign, we are preparing more intensive support, including from professionals. I promise to look at France and Spain with an oblique eye. To what we do in there, I'll just come back next time. It is also good to know that the National Network Safe Home does not yet see an increase in the number of notifications. That doesn't mean there's no increase in domestic violence. In itself, the fact that you do not see an increase in the reports is not necessarily a soothing thought. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked whether a rural solution has already been found for the shelter of homeless people. Well, no, because that's what we want to leave a local responsibility for. Municipalities are doing a hell of a lot of work on that right now. A national directive has been made, with the RIVM, with the IGJ, with the VNG, with Valente and with COMO. This Directive helps in the support and guidance of municipalities and organisations on how they deal with homeless people. This has also been done in connection with Mr Segers' motion. Can't the most vulnerable children just go to school, like children of parents working in the most vital sectors? Yeah, in extreme cases, that's possible. Schools and municipalities look together with Safe Home and youth care at local level for which students need support. Municipalities can take the initiative to find a tailor-made solution, sometimes in childcare, sometimes on the school side. With the sectoral councils, Minister Slob is working on ways to approach the target group even more actively and considering what support they can offer. Then there are the other education questions. First of all, those 7,000 kids who were in the news this morning, like they were gone. That's not entirely true, of course. But it is true that not all children are equally well in the picture at the school. Yes, it is. That is why Mr Slob wrote to your Chamber last Friday in which he told us what the agreements were with the VNG, with the compulsory education officers and the sectoral councils on how to deal with students who are out of the picture. First of all, it is compulsory education. Two. If, on the basis of compulsory education, there is a "not home" signal or the "not accessible" signal, then together with the school, with the municipality, with Safe Home or other aid workers, it is decided who could best come to the door. Afterwards, we look further at what is needed, for example the installation of additional contact moments, emergency reception or otherwise. The VNG has shared this approach with all municipalities. When will the investigation into the infectious effects of children be completed? The investigation is ongoing. The RIVM aims to ensure that for the next decision-making period, i.e. the week before the 28th, the first results of the research are on the table, so that we can include those initial results in the further decision-making process after 28 April. Then: students get in trouble because their income is losing. Students in financial difficulties can report to DUO. They may be eligible for an additional scholarship, a loan or an increase in tuition fees. In addition, DUO will apply coulance when paying tuition fees. With regard to rentals, the Minister of BZK has made agreements with the landlords, including the dome of student accommodation, about the coulance that suits the current problems. Finally, the Minister of OCW is specifically looking at how to deal with the position of medical students, which of course we need extra. Then I'll go to the questions about the investigation. Two questions have been asked about the research: on participation in CEPI and whether the 10 million is a adjusted amount. Well, no, I'm not gonna say it's an upper limit. I am going to say that we must work very closely together, internationally, in the development of vaccines, that we would like to make a great contribution to this, so that we can also be in the front line in order to make use of it, because that has, of course, to do with it. So I am not going to mention an upper limit here. I'm just gonna say that we're definitely not cheap in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u311	This was my last question that hadn't been answered. It was also written in the letter that one and a half to two billion would be needed. Then 10 million, even if it is a lower limit, still seems to be a very limited contribution. In what time can it become clearer to what extent the Netherlands is going to make a significant contribution, so that it also has an effect on "standing in line" as the Minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u312	We are already contributing a great deal through Europe, through our contributions, to Cepi as well. So this isn't the only contribution, this is the extra contribution we make on top of it. The question is whether we will have enough researchers to raise all that money. Money must never, ever be the obstacle to the speed of a new vaccine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u313	Can the Minister state in next week's letter what this broader contribution is? 'Cause it was like 10 million in the letter right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u314	No, it's a lot more than that. I will certainly go into that in the next letter. And again, money should never, never be the obstacle in getting a new vaccine as soon as possible. Then the WTO patent pool. That's a good initiative. The Netherlands will discuss with the WHO what is the most constructive way to contribute to this. We will do the same through the EU. Then there are a number of other questions. A whole bunch of technical questions from Mr Baudet. That is what I am going to say, also for the sake of time: put them above all to Professor Jaap van Dissel in the next technical briefing. Then I have a question from Mr Jetten about performing artists. Isn't that right? Yes. Yes. No, culture is the industry of Mr Rutte, and television programmes in which Mr Baudet can be seen. Those are the two areas of interest. What about the medicine, especially in palliative care? For the supply of medicinal products, Mr Van Rijn operates along two lines: central control of corona-related medicinal products and increased vigilance for other medicinal products, because all medicines are a little compromised by all export bans. The CBG's and IGJ's and the national coordination centre's drug deficit reporting points play an important role in this. They monitor the availability of corona-related medicinal products for both inpatient and outpatient pharmacy, including palliative care. There is also an active cooperation with the public pharmacists, the KNMP, to ensure that medicines are also provided for palliative care outside the hospital. At present, there is no acute shortage of medicines used, but all medicines are subject to a certain amount of deficiency due to all export bans. That's why we need to monitor everything very closely. We are. Then, Mr President, I think I'm through with the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u315	Has there been a question left, Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u316	Mrs. Ouwehand walked here earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u317	Is that right? Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u318	Short question. Monitoring whether we still have access to important medicines is fine, but is there also a plan for monitoring that it is not going well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u319	Yes, that goes through the central point set up by Mr Van Rijn, in which the pharmacists are all working together, in which they are very good at stock management and very closely monitoring what potential, not perhaps now but in a month or two months, is a shortage. It will be monitored continuously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u320	In Meijel, Limburg, a very beautiful province, there is a doctor I can mention his name, because he is looking for the publicity himself: Mr Elens... who has experimented with a number of medicines that are also successful in France and New York. He's cured eight patients who had corona in his own words over the past week. Now the inspection has told him today that he must stop doing so and that otherwise he will be fined. That should only be in the second line and have side effects. But the man is a doctor, and he's helped eight patients. I would like to ask the Minister if he could take a look at it. Maybe it is not allowed by the rules, but because he has done so successfully, it is at least worth checking quickly whether the medicine, the combination of medicines he has given, is indeed a success formula or not. Because it's very sad that the man who helps people gets a fine, not a reward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u321	I do not know this story, but, as you say, it also has something very trusting, namely that the inspection did exactly what the inspection should do. That's very good supervision. But I'm going over the background to this story at the inspection. I don't know it, so I'm just checking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u322	Apart from the NOS, it has been in the Limburg media for quite some time, and also nationwide. I'd like to ask the Minister: look at that. If it is not entirely by the rules, the inspection may have done the right thing, but again, I would say: drop the fine and at least go and see if what that gentleman, the doctor, prescribes and therefore has been effective eight times, is worth examining and using more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u323	Yeah, I'm just checking with the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u324	I had asked another question about pay for working for people in care. The background was that I got the signal from a nurse who heard from a supervisor: you understand that we're not gonna pay off accessibility services, overtime and if that's the case at this time. As a result, it would almost go down in terms of salary. That can't be true, these kind of signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u325	No, that can't be true. That seems to me to be exactly the wrong attitude of an employer. We all have collective agreements and provisions in which exactly what you have to do is worked out when there is overtime, your leave cannot go on and so it must be postponed. By the way, I can see that a lot of employers are doing incredibly well. This lady has not been very well pleased with her employer, but perhaps she has been helped by the public attitude you are giving to that employer at the moment, and she is still getting satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u326	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u327	Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking about the Minister's reply on recovery time. He says that all this is also taken into account in the OMT opinion. I think there's one more nuance next to it. Yes, you have to plan the catch-up care, whatever the minister was talking about. But I think we should also bear in mind that we can call less on the people who work in the care sector. So apart from the fact that care is still being called upon that has been delayed and has to be overtaken, you also have to take into account failure and recovery time in people who still care. I wanted to emphasise that. I would also like to thank you for your reply and hope that we can continue with the positive lines we are seeing. I started my contribution in the first term with: the number of occupied places on the ic is growing less but still increasing. But today's figures have even made that a little more positive. I hope that trend continues and provides some rest in this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u328	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u329	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the answers. I would like to make three motions. The first is about today's great disgrace, and that is the lack of protective materials. The Minister comes up with the same story every week, but it must finally be over and resolved. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are still receiving many messages (ActiZ, Verenso, V&VN, NU'91, CNV) that care workers in nursing homes, community care and domestic assistance do not have sufficient protective equipment;]] [[calls on the Government, in line with the Wilders motion adopted on 26 March last, to ensure that all health care workers have sufficient protective equipment at their disposal in the shortest possible time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u330	Mr. Chairman. Then a second motion. I actually think that in the long term everyone should be able to be tested. Everyone in the Netherlands has the right to know. We can't do that now, but in the long run, we should. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that limited testing for corona has led to a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty;]] [[calls on the Government to make corona tests available to all those who so wish and to lift any restrictions imposed by the GGDs as soon as there is sufficient test capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-221]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u331	Then my final motion. We don't know which people have died of corona, in the sense that the RIVM figures don't add up. We know that; that's what the RIVM itself says. Because if people have died but haven't been tested, but the doctors do suspect they've had corona, it's not registered now. It should be. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the debate on 1 April last, the Minister indicated that people suspected of dying from the coronavirus but not tested are not included in the mortality rates as being deceased from the coronavirus;]] [[noting that the CBS reported an excess mortality rate of 1,200 people in the last week of March;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that doctors, with retroactive effect, can register as "probably coronavirus" persons suspected of having died of the corona virus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-222]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the first-term response, and specifically for the commitment to come before Easter with the improved distribution model for protective equipment................................................................................................................................................................... I am also very much looking forward to what will be in that letter next week. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his positive response to the idea that as a cabinet we should look very closely at the position of seasonal sectors such as ornamental farming, but also those of flex workers, to which Mr Asscher has also explicitly drawn attention. I think it is very good that these two subjects will also come back next week to the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs on the regulations that are in place. I should like to conclude with the same appeal as Mr Wilders made at the end of his first term. I know that it is going to be difficult for many people to live up to their commitments in the coming Easter days. But hang on to it and hang on, because together we can only fight this virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u333	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u334	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. There are indeed encouraging signs of a re-decreasing number of infections and patients on the ICUs, but we are far from there. I also welcome the Minister's commitment to a new distribution model for protective equipment at Easter, as Mr Heerma has just said. I spoke to a doctor this morning who told me that actually all the patients he has now with which corona is established are employees in the healthcare sector, and that those people are very concerned about whether they can do their job safely and what danger they pose to the clients and patients they help. This new distribution model, where personal protective equipment is well distributed not only in hospitals but widely in care, is very important. Mr. Chairman. We also discussed in this debate the step towards the new normal. The Minister said that an app could be an important condition for relaxing the measures. I would like to give him a little support in the response he has already given. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of apps can contribute to the management of the coronavirus and to finding a "new normal" provided that they comply with (legal) safeguards in the field of privacy and value added is well-founded;]] [[Whereas such apps are only useful in combination with larger-scale testing of people on the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the government to clarify this matter to Parliament as soon as possible, starting from the assumption that the use of these apps is proportionate and the privacy apps comply with existing legislation such as the GDPR, and that the Personal Data Authority will be involved in this elaboration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Segers, Mr Asscher, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Haga, Mr Wilders, Mr Krol and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister for their reply. A lot of people came by today. There's still a lot to worry about. There is still an enormous amount of work to be done, not only in hospitals, but also outside, when it comes to the proper distribution of the protective equipment that is already there. Mr Asscher will also be tabling a motion on my behalf. We've also asked critical questions about those apps in Chamberwide. They can be a good support, but privacy is extremely important. The Minister says: I will explain the possibilities we see in a letter. It seems to me desirable that before then the Chamber should also be given a technical briefing on this subject and that we should not only receive information about it in a letter, because it is quite technical. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion and it's about the covidpool at the World Health Organization. I was already pleased with the Minister's response, but I would like to support it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is essential that a future vaccine and/or medicine against the COVID-19 virus is rapidly available worldwide;]] [[noting that there is a high risk that not all countries will have access to a vaccine and/or medicinal product because its development is in the hands of some large pharmaceutical companies;]] [[Whereas drug developments around HIV are now taking place through a single joint platform, a pool, in which pharmaceuticals and organisations freely share knowledge, intellectual property and data to achieve a vaccine;]] [[Whereas the Government of Costa Rica, several health experts and civil society organisations call on governments to implement such a construction against the COVID-19 virus;]] [[Calls on the Government to demonstrate leadership prior to, and during, the annual meeting of the World Health Organisation and to actively support the establishment of a global COVID-19 pool and the World Health Organisation;]] [[calls on the Government to invest only in the development of vaccines and medicinal products that are made freely available, so that the production of the future vaccine or medicinal product is not dependent on a single pharmaceutical,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Wilders, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Krol, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u336	A quick question. The second part of Mrs Ellemeet's operative part refers to the word 'free'. Could it also be "under acceptable conditions"? In my view, the main objective is to develop it as quickly as possible and to make it as widely available as possible. So that could also be 'acceptable conditions', in my opinion, and not necessarily 'free'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u337	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u338	Thank you. I'll wait a minute. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got three short motions, so I'm gonna start fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of corona virus infections is rapidly increasing in nursing homes;]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether the measures taken are sufficient for the situation in nursing homes;]] [[calls on the Government to examine rapidly whether action should be taken nationally to reduce the rapid increase in corona virus contamination in nursing homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the need for personal protective equipment for healthcare professionals is still high and that the trade union is even considering calling on its supporters not to work if this cannot be done safely;]] [[noting that our caregivers are badly needed and must be able to do their job safely;]] [[calls on the government to make a short-term inventory of what is now available in industry of protective equipment that could be used in healthcare, pending the start of its own production,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of the corona crisis, inequality in our country may increase further, both in the field of public health and socio-economic;]] [[considers that the coronavirus and the effects of economic measures should not lead to division and growing differences;]] [[calls on the government to make solidarity and justice a key pillar of the exit strategy to be formulated in order to prevent those who now lead the fight against the corona virus and those who are now hardest hit by the virus from paying the price of the crisis in financial terms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-225]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-226]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Asscher and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u340	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a serious shortage of protective equipment among general practitioners, in nursing homes, home and youth care, mental health care and disability care, and that there is still too often a lack of clarity about the directives;]] [[Whereas central coordination for acute care and scheduled care has been arranged, but there is no coordination for care outside the hospital;]] [[calls on the Government to set up, as soon as possible, a national coordination point for all non-hospital care sectors in order to provide clear guidelines for care for corona patients, for protective devices, and other necessary materials and their distribution, and together with organisations in care to increase the awareness and clarity of guidelines for care professionals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas care workers (and others) are doing important work in the fight against the coronavirus in the frontline under difficult conditions;]] [[Whereas they are also at risk for their own health;]] [[whereas it is only logical to support them if they suffer permanent health damage or, for example, financial damage as a result;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a fund to compensate for the damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-228]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-229]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u341	I would also like to hear a second-term response to the suggestion to prevent the infection in the nursing homes by not leaving people to work until they have been tested negative for corona, precisely in light of today's reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u342	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u343	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the government for its response and the commitments, specifically on two points. In the next letter will be returned to the mental care and best practices in nursing care. And very different, but also important: the commitment to ornamental cultivation. The cabinet wants to take special care of this. Thank you for that. I have another motion, Madam President, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are serious concerns about the long-term impact of the corona crisis on the mental well-being of care personnel, patients and society as a whole;]] [[Whereas it is important to reduce these effects by means of prevention and also to prepare in good time for an expected increase in people in need of mental assistance;]] [[calls on the Government, together with relevant field parties, to take short-term preventive measures to mitigate the negative effects on mental well-being, and to develop various scenarios to address increasing demand for ggz and mental care, focusing on specific target groups such as care staff, patients and current ggz clients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Krol, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-230]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u344	I think he'll make it, Madam President. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u345	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u346	Mr President, thank you. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. Quick motion on the apps. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is going to explore whether and how medical apps can be used to conduct contact investigations in accordance with privacy terms;]] [[Calls on the government to involve privacy organisations such as Bits of Freedom and Privacy First in this process;]] [[also calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps on the possible deployment of apps until the Chamber has had the opportunity to express its views,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-231]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u347	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. The government can count on the support of the Party for Animals in the measures it has taken so far and in the search for what we can do to maintain human standards as much as possible, for they are very far-reaching measures, especially for people who are separated from their loved ones. The call's been made. Hang on! But this debate is also about the economic consequences. We have over the past few weeks heard the Prime Minister say things that we could only dream of before. He said that after corona, the world really isn't going to look the same and that health isn't opposite to the economy. That's what I like to hear him say. But I would also like to say to the Prime Minister: keep it up! Because there is also a biodiversity crisis and there is a climate crisis. And how we are going to solve economic problems cannot be separated from those other challenges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u348	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u349	Madam President. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many health care institutions do not allow a family because of the corona crisis;]] [[whereas contact with family is of great importance and that digital contact is not possible and/or sufficient for everyone;]] [[Whereas a health care institution in Wassenaar has placed a "visitor's cottage" allowing residents and family to meet and speak in accordance with the RIVM guidelines;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a similar provision for as many health care institutions as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Asscher and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-232]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u350	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that soon the National Care Class, an online learning environment where large groups of people with caring affinity, but without care background, will be trained for supportive and non-complex care tasks, will be launched;]] [[Whereas there will be a great deal of additional hands for care in the coming period;]] [[whereas many employees of, for example, KLM and the NS do not now have regular daily work due to the corona crisis;]] [[Whereas these employees have a high affinity for caring for people;]] [[invites the government, in consultation with employers and "Extra hands for care," to consider whether these staff can also participate in the National Care Class and then work within the care field,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u351	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u352	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u353	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for their response and wish them much strength with everything else, including in dealing with this crisis. I'd like to file another motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the corona crisis, the emergency regulations violate citizens' fundamental rights and that democratic control of emergency regulations is limited;]] [[Whereas the continuation of existing measures and the consideration of new measures, such as the use of apps, require the least extensive infringement of a fundamental right appropriate to the nature and limitations of the specific fundamental right;]] [[considers that the framework of the rule of law should also be maintained in a time of crisis;]] [[calls on the Council of State to ask for information on the fundamental aspects of the planned and planned crisis measures, at least on the following questions:]] [[the extent to which each measure takes due account of the nature of the specific fundamental right;]] [[the extent to which the least far-reaching measure necessary to achieve the objective has always been taken;]] [[how and under which criteria (phased) phasing-out of measures is possible with a view to minimising fundamental rights;]] [[how the best possible democratic control can be exercised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-234]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u354	Mr. Chairman. One more word for an explanation. It is not a question of evaluating what has happened so far, but rather of providing a future-oriented framework for measures which may take longer to be extended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u355	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u356	Madam President. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the need to stimulate consumer spending during, but also after, the removal of the intelligent lockdown is of the utmost importance;]] [[calls on the Government to also consider a structural reduction in VAT from 9% to 6%, from 21% to 19%, to stimulate expenditure and the economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NOW scheme provides a solution for companies with relatively high staff costs, but is insufficient for companies where staff costs are a relatively small proportion of total costs and not at all for DGAs of these SMEs;]] [[noting that the assistance does not provide a solution and many of them will face financial difficulties;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to and under the same conditions as the NOW fee, to give entrepreneurs an additional option, namely a gross margin-based turnover fee, with 0.5% gross margin-based remuneration per 1% turnover loss, so that our SME entrepreneurs and now out of business can also survive the crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current lockdown creates liquidity problems for many healthy SMEs;]] [[noting that the current aid package does not address these liquidity problems sufficiently;]] [[noting that, under similar circumstances, the German authorities have in the meantime increased aid to SMEs:]] [[low interest rate of 1%;]] [[with wider government guarantees on loans, from 75% to 100%;]] [[without expensive closing premiums;]] [[taking into account financial health requirements;]] [[calls on the government to extend aid to Dutch SMEs as soon as possible to the German model, in order to prevent a wave of bankruptcy in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-235]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-236]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u357	This motion was co-signed by colleague Van Haga. I've checked it out, and I'm allowed to do both:
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u358	The word comrade is now being called. Colleague, there is also a call. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u359	Mr. Chairman. I have 40 seconds left, so I had one motion to submit, on social inequality, with the appeal and the request to the government not to allow it to increase further during the crisis. But now I heard the beautiful motion of the SP and I thought: I actually hear little difference. If I can sign it with you, I can save the Chamber another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u360	That's what I'm always for. Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u361	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u362	Before we fight, how many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u363	Three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u364	You have 40 seconds to speak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u365	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that masks in South Korea have contributed to slowing down the transfer of the coronavirus;]] [[Whereas widespread use of mouth caps at a later stage may speed up the lifting of the lockdown;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the wearing of mouth caps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present 1.7% of the wage bill may be devoted to the cost of working;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the working costs scheme can be increased by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the RDW is only carrying out "crucial inspections';]] [[Whereas this will stop an entire industry;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the RDW to carry out as many inspections as possible within the framework of the corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-238]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-239]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u366	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u367	There were two more questions. Mr Asscher mentioned the elements of operating aid. As far as I'm concerned, they're relevant. Social conditions will certainly be important in the case of possible aid. I cannot say in advance that we will apply it in exactly the same way for every situation, but I have listened carefully to Mr Asscher. As far as I am concerned, this three-piece is a guide, but you cannot guarantee it in advance in all respects to exactly the same degree. The second question was from Mr Van Haga: why do self-employed people who have old WW rights first have to liquidate their business before they can claim WW? Now I understand the question well; thank you for the clarification. In this context, a specific group of self-employed workers have once acquired rights as an employee within a company, then become self-employed, now no longer have turnover and thus resurrect those WW rights. It is true that they then have to liquidate their business first. Self-employed people who want to revive old WW rights must first permanently cease to be self-employed. That is laid down in the law and there is a reason for that. We want to prevent self-employed people from using these WW rights to compete unfairly with self-employed people who do not have WW rights. Of course, the Cabinet recognises that this reasoning is particularly valid under normal circumstances and that these are exceptional circumstances. This is why we have set up the Tozo for self-employed workers, who supplement their income to the social minimum. Then a few motions. I'm responding to the motion on part number one. 227 of the SP. In itself, I understand the motion, because we are in a huge crisis that hits everyone hard. Solidarity and justice are always important pillars of policy, including this cabinet and the previous cabinet. In order to avoid as much as possible that businesses and people cannot go on and become completely trapped in this difficult time, we have had to take a number of emergency measures. But it's a crisis. It is a health crisis that is now leading to an economic crisis. Mrs Marijnissen asked me whether I agree with her that people who are now working hard to lead the Netherlands through the crisis will not have to pay the bill. I agree, but I have also indicated that the Netherlands is a country where there is already a great deal of redistribution and so on. I talked to her about that. The point here is that you cannot guarantee that certain groups will not be affected by this crisis, not even the people who are now making huge efforts. That guarantee can't be given in advance. Everyone, that goes literally for everyone, including you, I, too, will notice the consequences of the crisis. I can't stop that. So I find it too easy to give a positive opinion on this motion and therefore I advise her on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u368	Very briefly, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u369	It can be short. The Prime Minister says he can't give guarantees. I get that; that's not in the motion either. The motion merely calls for solidarity and justice to be the pillars of an exit strategy to be developed. I really think that we are failing the people in care and other people who are now working and for whom we are applauding, if we cannot say now that we are taking care of those people in the face of the consequences of this crisis. That is what this motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u370	One more time, though. If Mrs Marijnissen puts it that way, it is going towards a guarantee. You can't do that to that extent. I think we agree on what we want to achieve. I also agree with the terms solidarity and justice. I agree with the pillars. But you can't say in advance: with that someone who works in health care, however much I want to prevent it, will never notice. Then there is the motion on fundamental rights in crisis time. Oh, he's at the Bureau, so I'm gonna leave it unrequited. The motion in part No. Mr Baudet's 235 on a structural reduction in VAT, I do not recommend. That's not the government's intention. Then the motion to part No. 237 on liquidity problems. We're on top of that, but I'm not ready to take over the German model now. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 236 I recommend an apology for the order of a turnover fee based on the gross margin. This is an extremely complex proposal which I cannot see in any way, so I would advise against the motion in part No. 236.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u371	So the motion in part No. 236 has been dissuaded? Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u372	I understand that my proposals in the motions are complex. That's why it says: consider it, consider it. Consider looking at how the VAT...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u373	I've already said that, so she's unnecessary. That is why she does not have to vote. I have already said that we are always looking at suggestions coming from the Chamber, but it is not at present that we see reason to do so on top of what we are already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u374	Anyway, unnecessary is not a reason. A lot of things are happening here that are unnecessary. We can leave these motions fine judgment Chamber then, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u375	We're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u376	Three motions, i.e. the extension of the NOW scheme, the liquidity problems for SMEs and the VAT reduction. All three with suggestions that are widely supported, including by employers' organisations and so on, with a request to the government: consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u377	It doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u378	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u379	Yes, requests the government. But if it's accepted...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u380	Asks the government to consider it. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u381	Where does it say "to consider"? It doesn't say that at all. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u382	That's the motion in part No. 235, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u383	Yes, requests to consider. You don't need a motion for that. So either the Chamber says, "We want this." Then I say "no', to VAT, to that turnover fee on the gross margin and also to liquidity. If Mr Baudet asks me on that VAT: what do you really think? I really don't think it's a good idea right now. Then there's the motion on that liquidity, the idea that that's a big problem. I have already said in the debate in the first term that I agree with him on this. There was another meeting with the banks this afternoon. We're on top of it. We are also looking at the interest levied over the last 10% and 20%. There are also talks with the banks about this. So we don't have to convince each other about that. He has come up with a concrete proposal, which is not without cost, which I am not suggesting at the moment. However, as things do not improve with the banks, we will naturally look at all possible suggestions, including these. But that's not the issue right now, so I'm gonna advise her on balance. I'm gonna take that advice. The motion in part No. 239 of Mr Van Haga gets judgment Chamber, because that is research and we can do that. The motion in part No. I advise 240 of Mr Van Haga. At the start of the corona crisis, the inspections were reduced to the crucial inspections related to acute staff shortages. Since Monday 30 March, import inspections have been partially started again. They will be further extended in the near future in order to minimise the impact on the sector. Of course, that doesn't mean we're at the level before the virus. Unfortunately, we cannot fully safeguard this sector from the consequences of corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u384	That is what I understand by now, that by 31 March everything would be going on again. But I hear from the field that it isn't and that all kinds of bureaucratic rules have been added, like you have to prove that you sold the car in five days. I would therefore very much appreciate it if this motion would be given a ruling Chamber, so that at least it is a strong signal to the RDW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u385	No, I'm not suggesting this motion. I can't even see what I'm gonna saddle these people with in this tough time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u386	Thank you. Then we'll just wait a minute. If you'll step aside, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u387	Oh, yeah, sorry. Let's mop up first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u388	I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u389	Mr. Chairman. First three questions and then I'll do the motions in order of entry. First of all, the three questions that were asked in the first period I could not have answered. That is the question of the Wilders when the testing policy in the nursing homes can be extended. This test policy at the GGDs has been extended since 6 April, last Monday, so that all employees of nursing homes with complaints are eligible for it. For patients in nursing homes with complaints and from groups at risk, reference is made to the Verenso Directive, but it has not yet been amended. I am going to ask Verenso to amend the directive as soon as possible, because given the substantial enlargement there is more possible than is currently being used. Following its arrival, I can answer Mr Wilders' question when the situation will be that all patients with complaints, including in nursing homes, will be tested. So I'll come back to that in another letter next week. Mrs Marijnissen asked about the NRC message. There may be a number of cases here, namely an increase in the number of infections, which will probably also occur as well as an increase in the registration of those infections. That will also be part of the increase that Verenso signals. That's why I think it's good to really give this question to the RIVM, who, together with Verenso, is looking into the infections in the nursing homes, what about the mortality rates in the nursing homes related to corona. We will come back to that next week. I therefore propose that this question be put to the RIVM in a good way. One more question remained, from Mr Asscher. He asked: but if this test capacity has been expanded so that the staff in the nursing homes can also be tested, shouldn't we ask those employees at the same time, once they have complaints, to just stay home and get tested before going back to work? I am going to put that question to the OMT first, because I want it properly checked whether that does not mean that there is a question of continuity in care. Actually, if you have any complaints, you can get tested. At the very least, the possibility is still very limited that you enter the nursing homes. RIVM has not yet demonstrated that this transmission actually takes place from staff to patients. In the hospitals, RIVM shows something else. The "families" of the viruses have shown this. We don't know that yet at the nursing homes; that's what they're investigating. But I'm going to ask this question to the OMT, and I'll come back to it next week, after the OMT recommendation. Those were the questions. I'm coming up on the motions now. In the motion in part No. 220 might be referred to the heart of today's debate. The motion calls on the government to ensure, in line with the motion previously adopted, that the caregivers have sufficient protective equipment at their disposal in the shortest possible time. That is, of course, the very heart of my commitment, the core of Martin van Rijn's commitment, through the line of procurement, through the line of own production, through the line of reuse, through the line of better distribution and so on. So this is exactly the description of everything we do. So normally I would say that this motion does not add very much and is therefore superfluous. But that would misread the conclusion of the debate. Then it would appear that we would not agree that these people should be able to have adequate protective equipment as soon as possible. We do not disagree. That is why I would like to say that this is policy support and I leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 221 the government is invited to make corona tests available to anyone who so wishes. I'm going to discourage that motion, because this is really too unfocused. There will always be a certain scarcity. Within that scarcity, we have to operate. In the motion in part No. 222 the government is asked to ensure that doctors with retroactive effect can register people who are believed to have died of the coronavirus as "probably CV." I know that this question was also raised this morning during the technical briefing. I believe that Mr Van Dissel said there: we are going to see how we can improve this registration. I would really like that to go along that line and that line. The purpose of Mr Wilders and of me is the same, namely to ensure that we have all the deaths in view that can be related to corona. This is done by depicting excess mortality through the CBS. I think that's the way we should get those numbers on death. I think that's a better way than this one. So I'd like to let RIVM take that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u390	And what's the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u391	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u392	Maybe it'll help if the Minister comes back to it in a next letter, next week or next week. Then I can hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u393	That's possible, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u394	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u395	At the request of Mr Wilders, I propose his motion (25295, No. 222), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 222/1999. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u396	The motion in part No. 223 is about the apps and privacy. I leave this to the Chamber because I think this is in line with what we have exchanged in the debate. And I'm doing that because there's a very long list of names underneath. The motion in part No. 224 is about an affordable vaccine. There was an interruption by Mr Jetten. I would just like to check with the author whether she is indeed turning that word 'free' into 'acceptable conditions' in the operative part. 'Cause if you do, the motion gets judgment Chamber. If you don't, I'm going to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u397	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u398	Good, then we're out. Then motion No. 225. I am going to discourage that motion, referring to the debate. I don't think we disagree that we should do everything we can to protect. Only: this suggests that there is a new approach in the making. To be honest, I do not know what additional action we need to take in order to ensure protection. The figures need to be in order and yes, we need to keep looking at good examples over and over again, but this motion actually orders a new approach. Then you should also know something about which ingredients this new approach should contain. So I'm going to dissuade this motion. Motion No. 226 calls on the government, pending the start of its own production, to take stock in the short term... Yeah, that's a long time ago. That question has been asked a long time ago. We've done that a long time ago, but there's just nothing left to get. So this isn't the way that's gonna help solve the deficit. So I advise against this motion. Motion No. 228 calls on the government to set up, as soon as possible, a nationwide coordination point for all non-hospital care sectors in order to take the lead. On this motion, I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber, but under the condition of a number of comments. I am not going to set up a new coordination point, but I am going to shape that national coordination. That's the national direction I'm going to shape on the distribution of the stuff outside the hospitals, because it's necessary. With reference to the first-term debate, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then motion No. 229. I ask Mr Asscher to keep it. I really need to take a good look at how we can best decorate this. This is simply about the extent to which you might be liable to damage, the extent to which damage has actually been incurred and the extent to which that damage can be related to the lack of protective equipment. It is, of course, not so easy to see at the moment whether that is the case and, if so, in what way you would have to claim that damage. So I would really ask you to hold on to this motion and first give me the opportunity to come to this point with a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u399	I'll keep it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u400	At the request of Mr Asscher, I propose his motion (25295, No. 229). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u401	Then motion No. 230. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, because it is just a good idea and also because there are a lot of people under this motion. Then motion No. 231. This calls on the government to involve privacy organisations such as Bits of Freedom and Privacy First. That's a little too specific as a process requirement. I think we share the goal of taking into account the pre-condition of privacy. That's just condition sine qua non. But this is such a process requirement that I think: give us some space to see how we do it, in any way we involve external expertise. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u402	Then I have a question. The minister said we're gonna involve everyone who knows. Then I'm thinking, independent privacy watchdogs, don't you want them there? If the Chamber shares the government's view that we really need to know for sure about privacy and whether the conditions are guaranteed, then I would think that these people can help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u403	I think so too, but you are making two very specific orders from those who need to be involved. I said we'd involve independent privacy experts in any way. I don't know if these two are. Maybe one of the two or maybe another. I find this order so specific that I think: give us some space. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u404	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u405	Then I could hold the motion if the Minister informs the Chamber about who he's going to involve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u406	Yes, of course. I'm definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u407	Then you'll hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u408	Then we'd like to hear soon...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u409	We're gonna vote later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u410	Exactly. We're gonna vote later. If we find out in a week who's gonna involve the minister, I'm gonna hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u411	Yeah, that's good. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u412	Beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u413	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (25295, No. 231), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u414	Then motion to No. Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u415	This motion is in line with the commitment I made to Mr Heerma. I would therefore like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. I am going to implement the motion in line with the commitment given to Mr Heerma. Then motion to part No. 233. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. Then the motion to part No. 238 of Van Haga and Baudet. I'm gonna dissuade them. We have just had a whole debate on the shortage of equipment. Then, of course, we are not going to use this equipment to promote false safety. We're gonna put that stuff in wherever they're needed, namely in health care. So I'm going to dissuade this motion anyway. Mr President, I have come to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u416	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate. We're going to vote in ten minutes. I see everyone watching. Yeah? Then we shall vote in ten minutes on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u417	I'm sorry, but my group needs more time to make the motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u418	What's that, more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u419	Half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-08-tweedekamer-2.u420	Is everyone okay with a suspension? Shall we do 8:30? Yeah? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m. and then we shall vote.
