ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the pension agreement. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I would like to give Mrs Van Brenk the floor on behalf of 50PLUS as the first speaker, but I see Mr Van Kent at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about a very large decision. There's a lot of money involved: 1,500 billion. We have four minutes' speaking time. I would like to propose to my colleagues that they be extended to six minutes. I would like to stress that those who do not want to make use of it do not, of course, need to do so, but my group would like to have a little more time than four minutes to deal with this important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u3	I'll see if anyone would mind. I see everyone watching a little bit of: what are we supposed to do with this? Mrs. Van Brenk, I know what you're going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u4	You don't know that at all, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u5	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u6	Do you think I support him, Mr. Chairman? I squeezed everything in four minutes. But I did ask you in advance whether I could, in the second instance, have a little more room in the motions in order to at least try to do some extra time and give some homework to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u7	Wait a minute, Mrs. Van Brenk. The Minister has yet to respond. So you don't know if you need any motions at all. I shall first look at Mr Van Kent's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. I'm kind of in dubio. There's nothing for formal decision-making. However, there is much to exchange ideas and that is also extremely important. But if we're all gonna talk for six minutes, we're really gonna be here till 1:30 tonight. I think that in a recess, also in front of the staff of the Chamber and in front of 150 colleagues, this is a bit about the summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u9	I agree with what the colleague of the VVD has just said. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna have four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u10	Maybe I can make a bridge and we can make it five minutes? Then we give the SP a little more space and we're in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u11	Four minutes is enough. We've all been preparing for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. I recognize it in dubio. I've also prepared myself so that I can do it in four minutes. Mr Gijs van Dijk may have devised a middle course, but I am going to do it in four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u13	Now I still don't know if you support it or not. No? So four minutes? I thought we were gonna start on time, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u14	That's what I thought. Let's talk about the content, to be honest, I think most of all. I don't feel like lying down for it either. Mrs Van Brenk also has a four-minute speech. I don't think it's very neat towards her either. As far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna do it in four minutes, and I'm sure you'll be a little bit generous if that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u15	That's good. I see the Registry's filled in six minutes, but it's gotta be four minutes. Please try to stay within these four minutes of speaking time. I think everyone's taken that into account. If it gets a little out of hand, I won't be too hard on you about it. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are 216 questions on the pension agreement and 216 answers from this minister on the redistribution of 1 500 billion. Even if I count all the spokesmen, I still get half a billion a second. So I'm just not getting into all the shit that's on the table right now. As a member of parliament, I feel shabby. On the other hand, however, it is no problem to identify three major problems of this pension agreement as quickly as possible. Point 1. If the new system had been introduced in 2007, even according to this minister, pensions would have just been increased over the last 12 years, and even considerably. In many ways, therefore, 50PLUS is right, but it is not distributed equally to pensioners. No recovery payment after 12 years of unnecessary reduction of pensions, possibly even up to 2026. No, there's even a threat of discounts. How can it be? What are the chances that someone who retired in 2007 will still be alive in 2026? What good is an advantage at that age that's spread over ten small, annual steps? Restoration payment: that sounds like a claim and it is. We want a recovery payment. Paragraph 2 is the legal quicksand on which the Minister and the social partners move. Objections under Article 83 are simply dismissed. We are considering a motion on this matter. There may be the possibility of giving older people the opportunity to participate. If so, are the most critical elderly unions welcome to the transition table? We are also considering a motion on this. The Minister's answers are sometimes inconvenient. I would like to make a specific appeal here and now to the other critical spokesmen: Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP and Mr De Jong of the PVV. 50PLUS proposes that all the legal weaknesses of this pension agreement be carefully identified so that we can torpedo and/or sue the agreement together with civil society organisations before the end of this year. The question is: do you want to participate? Point 3. How is the current pension fund distributed? 1,500 billion. The Minister admits that at the moment the power has shifted from old to young, only he could not calculate how much. What is special is that, if it is not convenient, this technocratic minister will suddenly be unable to count. But he maintains the damage for pensioners and makes it permanent. A permanent expropriation. What did this older generation do to deserve that? Mr President, now I am really missing a lot. The cost, borne by the rate of return, of this change in the system. The survivor's pension. The average problem. The mandatory triple protection in the distribution of the return, which will result in pensioners once again missing their share. But we shall also come back to this at a later stage very comprehensively. We do work overtime in this recess, but it pains me to see how easy and careless it is to deal with the inlays of generations that have helped the Netherlands to have a pension reserve of 1,500 billion. But this debate continues after the summer. You are far from there, we say to this cabinet. 13.5 million voters will be able to wipe out your miserable plans next year. We have the pain points well in mind. I have good hope that together with others we can make a fist against the open wounds of this pension agreement. Anyone who wants to can start this summer by pouring salt in it, because this cabinet will only stop if it hurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u17	Before I give you the floor, Mr Van Weyenberg, I would like to propose that four questions be put to you in the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u18	Those are great words from Mrs Van Brenk, but I think she is forgetting one crucial element, namely that the current system has not been indexed for years. There will be a new system, with the support of the trade union and employers' organizations, which has been working day and night in the past year, which will increase the chances of a good pension. When I hear Mrs Van Brenk talking like that, she apparently thinks the current situation is so fantastic that she wants to torpedo everything. I'd say let's work together to make it better. We've been working together. There is now a plan that offers young people, workers and pensioners a greater chance of indexing. So get out of that anger and go help me find a solution. When I hear you talking, you actually think the current system is fantastic. Well, all the pensioners I run into aren't as happy about it as you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u19	The interruptions must be short, otherwise they count for two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u20	You can count Mr. Van Weyenberg for two as far as I'm concerned. I think there are a lot of opportunities in the current system. If we were to delete the measure of security and maintain a very basic, simple rate of calculation of 2%, the problem would have been solved, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg. Then no one has to be afraid of discounts until 2026. Then the current system can remain normal. That saves a lot of money. It's a lot of things that could just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u21	Of course, that's where the monkey comes from. Through all kinds of smart people, scientists and people from the trade union movement, we have worked very hard to create a system in which we can separate ourselves from the accounting rate. How is that possible? By saying, we're gonna make less hard promises, and we're gonna make sure that that money, that's yours, can't go up and down between generations. We can use that to separate ourselves from the accounting rate. Mrs Van Brenk's solution is the album that I have heard for years from 50PLUS: no bullshit, pensioners rich, but the risk is full of it to workers and young people. That is irresponsible, and you must tell us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u22	I object very much to these allegations. I see here a D66 that simply accepts that a very large power, which has been shifted from old to young, is simply permanently expropriated. That's what should be told, Mr. Van Weyenberg. D66 is here in the Chamber solely for the interests of young people and not at all concerned with what older generations have laid in. Otherwise, it would also be very reasonable if you followed the 50PLUS requirement. What have people paid and what have the returns been? That's the ability that people are allowed to take. No, they're just going in against the nftk. So just go, expropriate! That's what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mrs. Van Brenk doesn't have to yell at me. I don't do that to her either. The crux is: yes, there has been too little premium paid in recent years. But fortunately, a lot of people have also aged a lot. There was never any premium for that. Fortunately, they can enjoy their retirement for longer. You're gonna have to tell the whole story. The crux of your calculation rate trick is very simple. It means you're gonna spend money and take the risks off working young people. I don't think that's wise. Not only do I not think that is wise, but a large majority in this Chamber does not think that is wise. The trade union movement doesn't think it's wise and the employers don't think it's wise. They've come up with something smarter, which gives us a better chance of indexing, but without moving the risk to the future. From 50PLUS I would have expected a little more attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u24	I also hear a picture about the fact that there is not enough money and that all this is not true. There is simply a flagrant lie in the Minister's answers: that there has never been paid for the longevity risk, but that has been included in the premiums and that has also been dealt with in the yields. It's just true. D66 denies that, and that's just a lie, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u25	When people say I'm lying, I think I need to respond. Of course, it is true that we have paid for a certain life expectancy, but the good news is that we have become much older than we thought in the 1970s, 1980s, 1990s. That's fair. So people get longer pensions. I would like to give this to people, but Mrs Van Brenk should not say that when contributions were paid in the 1970s, 1980s or 90s, we already knew that people would get the life expectancy we see today. That's very good news, that's not a lie, but that's just a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u26	When I started to retire in the 1970s, I paid 25% pension contributions at Zorg en Welzijn. 25%! If you look at what the returns were then and what the accounting rate was, we paid 4% interest, while the interest rate was much higher. Too much bounty was actually paid back then. I am fine with everyone here denying everything, but a question has been asked by us and it has not been answered, under the motto: we cannot calculate it. Of course, you can calculate actuarially what people have invested, what the returns were and what they would be entitled to. That is a very small effort, but this cabinet does not support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Van Kent has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As is well known, the SP rejects this pension agreement. We had a number of good reasons for this, such as the ever-increasing AOW age, whereas a declining AOW age is needed. Early retirement schemes are only of a very temporary nature. In the second term, we will propose to delete the RVU, the early retirement fine, in a structural and complete manner. The right to pension forzzp'ers is not regulated. The effect of the new pension contract gives us some additional reasons to reject this pension agreement. Who's gonna learn from this? Is it the pensioners who have had a pension for 12 years that does not go up with prices and are still seeing that situation for at least six years? The pension agreement does not provide a solution, no, it only adds to the problem, because in the future these pensions will become much more uncertain. This creates a generation that has never had a pension that increases with prices, and that while pension funds are bulking with money. And pensioners are also affected in a different way. They must accept, without being able to raise individual objections, that their accumulated pension rights are transferred to an uncertain contract, to a gambling pension. They should not object to this. That's a disgrace. We will make the proposal to maintain this possibility of objection, and we will also refer it to the courts together with the pensioners. We will help pensioners financially to bring this to justice, because this is really not possible. The pensioners are not the winner of this. Are the employees the winner? Employees went from a pension based on the last wage, to a pension based on the average wage, to a pension based on nothing. They put money in and have to see where the ship is stranded. I have seen calculation examples where the starting point is: if the weather is very bad you will receive a pension of €17,000 and if the weather is very good you will receive a pension of €72,000. What kind of crazy is this? Who can base his old age on this? Can you still live in your house, drive your car? Can you still carry out the plans you had? In short, great uncertainty for all those workers who are now building a pension. And then you shouldn't be an employee in a sector where the compensation for retiring in another way isn't properly arranged. The VCP trade union rightly makes this a very big point and says that a lot of people are going to be hurt, especially people who often change jobs. They also made a proposal to solve that. That was wiped off the table by the Minister. I would ask him to back that up here, because I am convinced that we are not going to get out of this. We can pretend that there is an agreement, but that agreement is not there when this is not properly arranged. So the question to the Minister is: how are you going to solve this problem? Mr. Chairman. Then who is the winner of this story? Those are the employers. They were very much on the table, because in these negotiations not only were the representatives of the employers at the table, but also a representative of the country's largest employer, this minister. And what is the importance of these employers? This is important: stable, low premiums; manageable costs. They benefit from low, stable pension contributions. And what's the outcome of the whole story? The only thing that remains to be seen is the investment, the pension premium paid by employers. All risks and uncertainties end up with employees and pensioners. So the big laughing third is this minister, this cabinet, which has stable low contributions as an employer, and that is all those employers in the country. Pensioners and workers are the victims. Mr. Chairman. And what is? What's to be done? Friend and enemy agree that we have the best pension system in the world. It's got one giant flaw. This is because of the accountants of De Nederlandsche Bank. This is due to parties such as D66, the VVD and the CDA, who have over and over again backed the accounting rules, which means that pension funds have to pretend to be poor, when in reality they are not, while in reality they achieve beautiful returns. Let us perfect that best pension system in the world by imposing and applying accounting rules that do have something to do with the returns that pension funds achieve and replace the ghost story that pension funds are now facing. Finally, Mr President. Let us also ensure that implementation costs are reduced, that top salaries are abolished and that bonuses are removed, so that this sector is healthy again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Mr Van der Linde has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. If you've spent your life working hard and you've just paid your bounty properly, you should also be able to count on a carefree old age. Because of everything that has happened here over the past few years, I sometimes get the feeling that we have completely lost sight of that. All these fine words about the best pension system in the world are of course worthless when people in the Netherlands are in uncertainty. Our pension just needs to be understandable again. And honestly, that's just gonna happen now. This cabinet has solved one of the toughest files in the last 20 years. We can move forward. We stick to a few good things from the pension system: income security, no matter how old you get, and investing together. And we say goodbye to incomprehensible terms: average premium, premium coverage. And we add new things: you can just see what's in that jar for you, there's gonna be a better survivor's scheme and you can withdraw 10% of the money when you retire. The VVD believes that there is now a good and solid package. But we are of course not ready until every pension participant in the Netherlands has a letter on the mat in which he can read what this means to him or her. And, so I ask the Minister, should it really take until 2026, or are there funds that can do that a little faster? Until then, we need new rules for shorting and indexing. Everyone's looking forward to that. My question to the Minister is: when does he expect to be able to send it to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u31	I have a question for the VVD because she thinks people should make their own choices. One of the most important points we have with this system is the triple security, which means that older people will soon barely get a return. We're gonna smear it in 10 years, so you're gonna get a tenth. We have a reserve of solidarity, but we also have a forced shopping, because when you're older, you're barely getting a return because you need more security. Would it also be acceptable for the VVD if there could be an individual choice of people, that they can decide for themselves what risk they want to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u32	You probably mean shopping law. I had a question ready for the Minister, which I probably no longer have to ask now. Yes, I think that is an interesting idea - and that was why I wanted to put it to the Minister. We're going into a system where your money is passed on. I can also imagine that there are people who say: I prefer to have a lower pension, but with absolute certainty. You could use that shopping right for that. So here's the question to the Minister. But that is certainly something to think about. It is not in the agreement as it stands, as I say, and I do feel bound by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u33	I heard a small hole here, so at least it hasn't all been poured into concrete yet. For example, it would be possible to have three cohorts of return: one takes a lot of risk; one in the middle; and one with hardly any risk, but you know that if you take little risk, you get hardly any return. Those are the choices that participants can make themselves. Is that negotiable for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u34	But that doesn't fit in with the system that's in place right now. From a liberal perspective, I understand very well where Mrs Van Brenk wants to go, so you make your own choices and invest with profiles. I don't think that's a step we should take now. We simply cannot take that step now, there is no basis for that. But from a liberal perspective, Mrs Van Brenn, we can talk a whole end. Mr. Chairman. A few questions. I'm trying to point-by-point them for the sake of time. I have already put the first one, which is about the'shopping right'. That's a bit of a bad word, but we mean you can take your money to another provider. Can the Minister explain again why that is not possible? As a result, is it true that only pension insurance companies will be allowed to offer a flat-rate benefit? And will the FTC continue to exist for funds with the Improved Premium Scheme Act? Second question. There will soon be two contracts: the new contract and the 'BvP contract'. Does the Minister have any indication of which funds are going to choose which contract? And how are we going to ensure that this choice is made in all transparency? And is it true that you don't build a buffer in that BvP contract and can index faster? Three: thezzp'ers. This effect on access forzzp'ers to pension funds is, as we see it, being lifted over the elections. Can the Minister tell us how he sees the deadlines, how he sees the effects, and how thezzp organisations are involved? Then there's the partner concept. That's what the minister's gonna stretch. Well, I've lived with a good friend in my home for over six months in college. If I read it correctly, that friend is gonna take advantage of my pension, otherwise it's gonna benefit from my wife's survivor's pension. Is this feasible? The questions on appeal and appeal have already been raised. Can the Minister confirm that people will be able to object, at least to an individual effect? And can the Minister also indicate how he is going to involve the representatives of pensioners in this collective venture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. I have a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u36	Into the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u37	Yes, excuse me. I believe that we agree that pensioners have not been indexed over the last 12 years. I know that the VVD is the party that has always worked hard for workers, but also for people who have worked hard. What can these people expect from critical noises from the VVD, now that they have not been indexed for 12 years, and in the coming years, if the plans continue, are not always indexed? Do you have anything for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u38	I understand very well what Mr Krol is talking about. This is, of course, one of the very nasty things about the existing pension system. And how did this happen? We agreed once that we should manage pension benefits with 97.5% security. Then you have to calculate very carefully. This means that all this money has been accumulated in pension funds and in the buffers. That's what happened. You'll have to make a choice. I have also crossed that out with your former colleague Van Rooijen. If you want to get rid of that, that's fine, but you're gonna have to give up that security. Honestly, we do that in this system. It's gonna go a little bit more along with the financial markets. That means that I can at least tell the elderly that if things are going well with the economy, they will also see this indexation earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u39	I am still not hearing a solution from you, and you say that there has not been an index for the last 12 years and that there will be no indexing in the coming years. A very large group of people have to deal with this. What can these people expect from the VVD? You're not offering them anything. You're just saying, "Too bad, bad luck." And that while the contents of the pots have doubled during that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u40	If you have anything better than just handing out money in those jars, I'd like to think with you. It's just that if we enter this, we can start indexing faster. So, the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr President, I was almost done. I had a sixth question: what do we do with information and advice? It's wonderful that people can now record 10% at once. It is also true that we will soon have such an insured product and that people will remain in an old arrangement and perhaps still want to change jobs. There will be people who need more advice. Pension funds should not give that financial advice. How are we gonna do that? Should we amend the Financial Supervision Act for that? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. We are not easily being whispered by the unions, but there was a nice idea from the VCPS, a really refreshing plan on which I would like to hear the Minister's opinion. VCPS Jong proposes to develop a pension label, with just A, B, C, D and E. How does the Minister feel about that? Is he willing to discuss this with the board of VCPS Jong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u43	I'm sorry, but I hear from the VVD all these little, nice things, when we're about to have a generation of elderly people who have a pension that has never been indexed. Is the message from the VVD to all these people now that there might be a prospect of indexing after 2026? Is that the story with which the VVD goes towards all these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u44	I can give you a very easy answer now. That is the answer: as far as we are concerned, we would have made this change ten years ago, because it would have been now. That's the easy answer. The honest answer is that we are in a pension system that is good, sound and absolutely beautiful, but that we must be strict because we do not take any risks and do not accept any risks for the participants. That's what we're in now. So, yeah, I can't magic the money out of nowhere either. There is now just a solid package with a view of indexing. How much prettier do you want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u45	A nice view is always nice, but you don't buy anything for it. All those people who have been here for 12 years and later for 20 years, after that, there is still great uncertainty waiting for an indexing of their pension that goes up with the prices... All these years the VVD says: no, we stay on that pot with pennies, otherwise you run risks. Now I hear the VVD saying that maybe we should have run a little more risk. Well, that was exactly the proposal that the SP Fons Luijben, later Agnes Kant............................................................................................................................................................ That's a little more risky. The VVD has always rejected that. The VVD is therefore responsible for the fact that an entire generation of 20 years will have a pension that does not go up with the prices. Mr President, it is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u46	I think there have been a number of parties in this Chamber who have consistently called for a totally certain pension and wanted to accept zero uncertainty, but did not want to pay the price for it. It can't be. You're not gonna get that figured out. Over the past ten years, we have consistently focused on this renewal of pensions. All due respect to this minister, who has got the trade unions, the employers, all aligned with a solid package. Then there are a few parties in the Chamber who really don't want to get into it. That's your right, but that's not how we get there. The point is that we are now developing a solid pension, which offers a prospect of indexing for everyone. And yes, we would have liked that ten years ago. And no, there was no support for that at the time. We've got it now, it's ready, and we've got it under control. Beautiful!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u47	I think the pensioners at home are all cheering with this answer. The VVD reassures them tremendously here. Oh, come on! The VVD has just been the party that has always rejected proposals from my party and from other parties, because they would transfer an account to the future. Let's be honest for a minute. The pension fund has doubled in the 12 years we're talking about. The returns of the pension funds have been on average fantastic, 6%, 7%, but they had to pretend to be poor from you and from other parties, from D66, CDA and so on. They had to pretend to be poor and therefore did not index pensions. I hear the VVD here saying there was no support for it. The problem was that the VVD didn't support it. The VVD wanted to maintain that system until today. I call on you to get back to that and support our proposal today to make indexing possible again and to take those discounts off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u48	I have heard no other idea about the SP in the last ten years than simply handing out the money without any substantial reform. You can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u49	Finally, Mr Van Kent. Yes, I see you sighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u50	Yes, Mr. Chairman. What kind of bullshit is this? We are talking about people who have had a pension for 12 years that does not go up with prices, while pension funds make fantastic returns and bulk the money. The VVD is talking about handing out money. No, we're talking about giving right holders what they're entitled to. Pensioners in the Netherlands have always deposited money, deferred wages, with a pension fund. That pension fund has invested that and achieved fantastic returns, but those pensioners have never seen one cent of that through the VVD. You must acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u51	In the new system, that money is properly allocated to all participants. So you'll be shown on your UPO how much money is in the pot for you. That's exactly your part. All that money, the 1,500 billion, is attributed to the participants. They'll all be able to see it later. That's fantastic. That is no longer in buffers that pass unseen to a next generation, as in the old system. That reform was necessary. I just told you, we're all just finished at the moment when every Dutchman has a letter on the mat saying "this means it to you." You're right. That gives uncertainty to humans. We are now getting a lot of e-mails from older people who are wondering what this means to them. We must respond to that, and we must do so quickly. Hence my question to the Minister why we have to wait until 2026. And of course, we could have done it ten years earlier. You're absolutely right about that. We could have taken the turn to the left and distributed the money without reform, but that's not how we do it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u52	I think Mr Van der Linde and I agree that the new pension agreement seems to be a step forward. Of course, if it's going to be real, we don't see it until it's worked out. One of the things is that the average system is abolished. Now I find out over the last few days that there is already a group in the Netherlands that is already building up a pension without a typical systematiek. I do not know exactly how big this group is, but it is a group that is very diverse in composition: from IT professionals to people in small businesses. If this goes on right away, those people might get in trouble too. This has not yet been addressed in the pension agreement and I am going to ask the Minister to pay more attention to this later. Those people are already building up with a low premium and, because of this flat premium, they will no longer be able to come up with a higher decent pension claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u53	Where do you want to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u54	My question is whether Mr Van der Linde recognizes this and whether he shares that concern. If so, will he put that question with me in the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u55	I think Mr Stoffer is talking about the premium schemes that are placed with insurers. There's not much fat on the bones there to make that transition in a decent way. That has, of course, been a discussion point in this whole pension deal. What is now on the table is acceptable to all employers. At least I understood that from the field. At the same time, we simply know that it is not the most beautiful part of the pension agreement. I would like to say to Mr Stoffer: let us keep our eyes and ears open for better alternatives. But, of course, we have to roll somewhere, don't we? We've had this on the table for a long time and I haven't seen any better ideas than they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u56	At least this doesn't sound like: you shouldn't have an eye for that. Can I interpret it in such a way that Mr Van der Linde says 'for that group you should analyse what that means for that group in the future'? For the people in whom the average systematiek is abolished, about our generation from 35 to 55.... must also be repaired a bit. Well, can I interpret it in such a way that it needs to be specifically looked at in the elaboration? That is independent of the question whether you can really do something there or not. You have to, because you have to get it up first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u57	I would like to make one comment. It's not like this is an unknown problem that's suddenly popped up. There's been a long talk about this. We have asked questions about this in the past. So I would not be in favour of stopping the pension agreement. But if there's anyone with a brilliant idea, I'm looking at the minister, the minister always wants to listen to it, that's how I know him. I'm just gonna help you out, Your Excellency!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u58	We don't need to discuss this in detail right now. For the moment, the answer is sufficient and I am very curious to see what the Minister will say to my question, and also to Mr Van der Linde's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u59	It's an incredible, huge gang that whole pension deal. I'll tell you why. It's full of uncertainties. About every page says: we still have to work that out. We don't know how the transition is going. We don't know exactly how to compensate those middle groups. Actually, we don't know anything yet. It seems, therefore, that there simply had to be an agreement quickly, even before the recess, to save Mr Koolmees' face here. That's serious, Mr. Chairman, because that's not how you deal with millions of pensioners. My specific question is: how does the VVD deal with the group of people who had no indexing in 2026 or perhaps 20 years later? Those people were not allowed to benefit in any way from the returns made on their pension contributions. How's the VVD gonna compensate those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u60	I should first like to take up Mr De Jong's introduction. I think it's okay that we all realize where we are in this story. Last year a pension agreement was concluded and that was very broad. We have just looked at which direction we want to go and we have put a steering committee to work to see if that is really possible and what it should look like in general terms. That is the effect that is now before us. A thick piece of paper. I'm sure you've read it from front to back. We also know that was my input just now that we are not ready. This needs to be reduced to individual pension funds and it needs to be reduced to individual calculations. Until then, you can't tell people exactly what they're up to. That must be done as quickly as possible. Yeah, we'll agree on that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yes, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u62	Then the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u63	You're all building silences and then I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u64	I can serve Mr De Jong immediately on his follow-up question, because that was of course: yes, what are we going to do with those people? I find it difficult, because Mr De Jong will undoubtedly argue in favour of giving everyone and everything extra money right now. We're in the middle of an economic crisis. Why don't we just make the numbers and see if there's any money left under the line? I think that's a good idea. Let's do that quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u65	The PVV wants the money to end up with the people it belongs to, the people who build it and the people who build it and are now retired. That's where the pension belongs. That's what it's supposed to be. It can't be that the VVD says: yes, we don't know how we're going to compensate that group. No indexing for 20 years! How can Mr Van der Linde of the VVD say here with dry eyes: yes, we just don't know that yet? How can you defend an agreement here at all if you say, on the one hand, that we do not know what the outcome of this agreement is going to be? In the meantime, we are sure to break down the current pension system. We're not gonna do anything about the calculus rate. We're not gonna see if we can do anything with the buffers, responsible. No, we all don't. We'll throw it away. The group of people who in 2026... That's the perspective on indexing you're giving, supposedly. They are not going to have it, because Mr Koolmees himself has already said so. There's not gonna be any indexing. There's not gonna be one. Against those people, some of whom are about to die, because they have retired and in that whole pension part they have had, they haven't had any indexing... Those people will be dead soon. You don't compensate those people. Why do you do that to these people? Why do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u66	I think I need to dissect this monkey sandwich quietly. We have a retirement fund of about 1,500 billion. Now we're going to charge that pension fund to participants. In other words, you and I will both be able to see what part of the 1,500 billion is intended for us. You can call that "individual jars," which you can call "collectively managed assets," but you can see what's in the pot later on. There's not a penny left behind. There is a very small amount in the solidarity reserve, 3% probably. The rest is all attributed to people. Then you can't say here that people don't get their money? You'll see that on your UPO, won't you? That's the system we're going to, isn't it? Then you can also withdraw 10% in cash on date of retirement. That is what we have achieved. The flag should go out at the PVV!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u67	No, certainly not, because the only one who really brings up a sandwich monkey story here is the VVD. It's the minister of D66 over there, he's sitting there saying there's not going to be any indexing at all. The money does not end up in the hands of the people who have paid pension contributions all these years, for whom these returns have been achieved. That's not gonna happen at all. You're just standing there lying like hell! It just doesn't make any sense what you're saying. The current Minister for Social Affairs, Mr Koolmees, points out that there is no direct prospect of indexation at all. That is at the expense of all those who have acquired a pension, are retired and do not receive any indexation. But it's also at the expense of all those young people, and I'll tell you why. When young people see that people do not get an index for 20 years, while it can be done with 1,500 billion euros in the pot and with the correct way of calculating... Then it's all possible. This is to the advantage of young people and of the elderly. These young people lose confidence in a system if it doesn't. So you should be ashamed that all those Dutch people who have built up a pension, who are about to die with a pension that has come out much lower, with all the problems of this kind people can no longer live, even at an older age, because of economic crises and so on... That is what you want to base the pension system on in a moment. You should be ashamed of yourself. You don't have a single beginning in finding a solution for those people. It's incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u68	Then we'll start on the second monkey sandwich we're going to dissect. There's 1,500 billion in the pot, about 1,500 billion. Mr De Jong says that the elderly are not getting it, and neither are young people getting it; where did that money go? It's not in buffers anymore. It's in the pension funds. It can't go to anything other than the participants, so it goes to the elderly and it goes to the young: either the elderly, or the young or both. But of course Mr De Jong cannot say that the money is suddenly gone. No, that money is allocated to participants. You may agree with that allocation. You can say: the elderly need a little more or the young need a little more. I think the package is extremely balanced. But it doesn't go into the treasury or anything. It's not given away to busboys. It's 1,500 billion, it's the members of the pension funds and nobody else's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you. Oh, last question, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr Van der Linde is doing a little cool here with the story of the monkey sandwich. Where the pension does not end up in any case, all those hard-working Dutch people who have not had an index for 12 years now and are about to die because of the policy put forward with a pension... Of course, I don't mean that it kills those people. But what is happening is that people have not been granted a whole part of their pension in a moment. That's my problem. This undermines confidence in the pension system. This is not for the benefit of young people, and that is not for the benefit of the elderly. Can Mr Van der Linde at least give an honest answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u71	I'll give you the honest answer. If we were to stick to the existing pension system, even if we were to raise the interest rate a little bit as the PVV might want, we would have needed a decade or so to supplement the mandatory buffers to 30%. So in ten years, nothing and no one was indexed. We are now going to build a system in which, if the economy is going well, people can quickly see an indexing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u72	I would just like to touch on the last point that Mr Van der Linde mentioned: it may be a bit old, it may be a bit young, but it is all fair. It's not fair at all. I would like to know from Mr Van der Linde what is not true about the story of 50PLUS that at the moment a very large part of the wealth of the 1,500 billion has been transferred from the elderly to young people. The minister says: "I don't really know how much and I'm not going to calculate it at all, but it's gone from old to young and we're going to move it along now." What's fair about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u73	It's a little more complicated, but I'm very sorry to hear about Mrs. Van Brenk. Look, in the existing pension system, money is being pushed, starting with the 30% buffer. It goes more or less unused from old to young. On the other hand, with the average premium, young people pay relatively more and older workers get a little more in return. There are still a number of things in the system. For example, career makers get a relatively higher pension than people on flat incomes. For example, there are all kinds of imbalances throughout the system that we should gradually remove from it. That's why. That's why I think what's now on the table is balanced. Again, in the existing system we sell a high degree of security, but that is certainty that is only nominal. So it doesn't say anything about your purchasing power, and it doesn't say anything about inflation or indexing. The only thing sold by us is a high degree of security on a nominal sum of money. That is not satisfactory for you, and that is not satisfactory for me. There is now a solution where we say: okay, if the economy is going badly, then we should also be prepared to turn in a little bit; not when we are a little older, because then it gets a little flattened. If the economy is going well as it has been in recent years, people want to benefit from it. We're going to bring that bandage back much more into the new system. I think that's understandable for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u74	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u75	People don't understand that they haven't been indexed in recent years. I can explain it to them, it's explanatory, but it's not understandable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Mr Gijs van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. After last year's pension agreement, we are a step further. This time with the broad lines, with support and agreement of the largest trade unions. Compliments to them. The Labour Party is satisfied that the legislation to slow down the AOW age is now in place, that the AOW age is frozen this year and next year and that it is rising less rapidly thereafter, that the first steps are taken to protect the self-employed if they become unexpectedly disabled, that unnecessary discounts are prevented again, that young people start to retire more quickly and that if you have a heavy occupation you can stop working three years earlier. That's how I spoke before the corona crisis with Co, 50 years of meat processor. Stand by the flesh, he calls it himself. Fortunately, he hasn't gotten sick now, because Co and his colleagues are at risk. Like thousands of plasterers, police officers and port workers, Co wants to be able to retire in good time. Will the Minister speed up the subsidy for the early retirement scheme? Construction, the police and the meat sector want to start work as early as 1 January, but according to the Minister's letter, the subsidy will not start until 1 June 2021. Can this subsidy not be brought forward to 1 January? Is the Minister prepared to increase the subsidy rate to stop working earlier? Can this subsidy also be used to support workers with small pensions, so that they have to bring forward a little less pension? Does this subsidy not create a very bureaucratic forest of consultants who benefit most from it? Why don't we give the sectors more confidence? And, finally, why should employers not grant individual benefits higher than the RVU threshold exemption? Mr. Chairman. The main features of the pension contract are now ahead. We await further legislation. It is important for the Labour Party that we share the pleasures and burdens fairly for all generations, that there are no unnecessary discounts and that there is more perspective on indexing earlier. The income of pensioners has been stagnant for years now. When you retire, the VAT increase has made the messages more expensive and your pension has not increased. The Labour Party welcomes the removal of unnecessary reductions in pensions by 2020, but many pensioners still have great concerns for the coming years. How can the Minister respond to these concerns? Even as a working man, this affects you. Your retirement has been reduced, there is no indexing and there is uncertainty about your final pension. How will the Minister respond to the concerns of the workers in the coming years? The cabinet chooses to abolish the average premium. It is important for the Labour Party that this abolition works well for young and old. It should not be the case that the 35- to 55-year-old group suffers from a changing pension contract. How's the Minister gonna handle this? Which funds cause problems and for which participants? What is the Minister going to do for the workers who are now in a DC scheme and are going to change jobs in the future? I also ask the Minister whether he is prepared to look at the possibilities of long-term economic setbacks. Should we not ask for a contribution from employers through the premium out of solidarity? How does the Minister view that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, all flex workers, often young workers, can build up a pension. It also tackles the perverse wage model of temporary employment agencies. But why do we keep the two months waiting? In the new pension system, early retirement is very important. It is precisely in the broadcasting sector, with many young flex workers, that there is a waiting period. Is the Minister prepared to abolish this waiting period as a whole? Does the Minister recognise the problem of the poor quality of many pension schemes of often young flex workers? Is the Minister prepared to come up with proposals with social partners to improve this? Mr President, I shall conclude. This development of the pension agreement is another step towards a new pension system. The Labour Party will continue to follow all legislation very critically, starting from: whether you are young or old, flex worker or permanent worker, have a small income or a high income, everyone has the right to a beautiful old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u78	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u79	Mr President, thank you very much. An uncertain pension that can be cut more quickly and will be more dependent on the whims of the stock exchange and the economy, is the outcome of the pension agreement. Terrible. We are going to a pension system that was previously described by the Labour Party and the FNV as a "casino pension" and which the same Labour Party and the FNV have now agreed to. How is it possible that these guys went through the pump like that and abandoned millions of retired people? Mr. Chairman. Of course, improvements are needed. We have the best pension system in the world, but it's amazing that you haven't been able to index 1,500 billion euros with pension funds for ten years and have been threatening discounts for years, simply because pension funds need to be unnecessarily poor. But we can solve that if we adjust the rigid, unrealistic calculation rate, and if we no longer rely on the bizarre ECB policy, which means that interest rates are artificially extremely low, so that the Italians can play their part. It's all at the expense of our retirement. Stop it. Exchange this unrealistic accounting rate for a real accounting rate that does more justice to the returns made by pension funds over the years. That'll give you air. We have tabled many motions on this subject, but again and again they were rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u80	I would like to check whether Mr De Jong has seen the effect of the pension agreement. Didn't we throw out the calculus rate? For this, a projection efficiency is now replaced. Then Mr. De Jong will have exactly what he wants, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u81	No, I certainly don't have what I want. If that were the case, there could still be an index today and all the discounts are off the table anyway. With this, I have indicated the difference. A projection return is something that could possibly take place in the future on the basis of what is happening on the stock exchange. The calculation rate story has to do with what you should have in cash right now. So that's a much more secure and realistic story. What has been done wrong is that the calculation rate has been set unrealistically low. We would like to make the calculation rate that we now have realistic, and that is not projection efficiency at all so that the discounts can be avoided and any indexing possible for the future. I see Mr Van der Linde looking very hard, but I think he has read the agreement himself and knows very well what the difference between projection efficiency and calculation interest is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u82	That's what I'm questioning a little bit. We've come up with something that's gonna get rid of that accounting rate, and certainly of that low accounting rate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u83	That's where it's going wrong. Something's going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u84	... so that everyone has a pot of money and you can get your pension together on the basis of market interest rates. That's exactly what Mr. De Jong wants. But we still can't index.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u85	That's right, yes. We have an interest rate that has been set so extremely low and that has been done on the basis of Mr Van der Linde's beloved ECB, because the interest rate is based on that rate that it does not do justice to the returns made by pension funds. The largest pension funds achieve a 7% return over the last ten years, but they must all act as if they are achieving less than one percent return per year. That's kind of crazy. There's a huge difference. This makes it look like paper as if they have less money in cash than they actually have. We believe that this interest rate should be set at a realistic 2%, which is already super careful. If you put the interest rate at 2%, it will make sure that the pension funds that are now in danger of having to cut because they are around 90% do not have to cut because they are above 100%. Then you can even see indexing. I'd love to. And that's not happening right now, because otherwise we'd be indexing today, Mr. Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u86	So let me get this straight, you're saying that if the projection efficiency is only above 2%, it's all gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u87	No. You're throwing away all the buffers and not taking into account all those people who've built up retirement. There has been no indexing in the last 12 years. For the next six years, and perhaps later, there will be no indexing either. This is what we want. We have a beautiful pot of EUR 1,500 billion. That pot's just gonna grow. For the next 20 years, that pot could just double. That's just what happens. What we don't want is that pot just stays the pot. We would like that pot to end up where it should end up for young and old. So one of the ways you could use it is to adjust the calculation rate. That is not the shredder of the whole system, the best pension system in the world. No, you need to improve that where it's necessary. So that's in the calculation rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr. Chairman. Under the leadership of Koolmees, a deliberate scare-making campaign has been conducted for years. It wouldn't be sustainable and affordable anymore. The fear of pension reductions has been stirred up time and time again to further undermine confidence in our current system. Koolmees also did not want real solutions to the discontent. Indeed, dissatisfaction is the most important tool on the road to degradation. Extremely liberal Koolmies simply wants to reform. He is convinced that it must be easier to shorten and pay less pension. That's what's behind it. That's the point. In recent years, it has never been serious about indexing pensions. The Minister has never made any effort to ensure that all these years of failed pensions would be restored. According to him, the Dutch pension system is bankrupt and this would be to be seen in the grumpy way about our pension system. According to Koolmees, a new pension system is needed to create peace. How dare he? It has been Koolmeen with his D66 that has caused unrest and has undermined confidence in our system. He blackmailed the unions with the threat of discounts. The pension discounts were used as leverage and bargaining tools to bring in the pension agreement. False can't be. Indeed, with the current Pension Act, Koolmeen can prevent these discounts in any case. In order to avoid discounts, you do not need a breakdown of the pension system, but the Pension Act and common sense. But yes... Mr. Chairman. If he were really concerned about the importance of millions of pension participants, he would have indicated quite clearly that there would be no reductions in the transition to a new system. But despite all the nice PR talk, these discounts still threaten millions of Dutch people. And what exactly is the situation with the abolition of the average systematism, which puts people between 35 and 55 at a disadvantage? And what exactly is the situation with regard to the entry into force of existing rights? And what exactly is the case with the so-called solidarity fund? I can go on like this for a while. There's nothing concrete in that whole deal. There's so much uncertainty. That uncertainty doesn't deserve those millions of pensioners. Mr President, I will conclude. For us, there are a number of things that really have to be different. Maintain our current pension system and improve it where necessary. Adjust the accounting rate. Freeze the AOW age at a minimum of 66 years. Remove all discounts for the coming years directly from the table. Make sure our pension is not even more dependent on the stock exchange and the economy. Look at what a credit crisis or a corona crisis can do to your economy. What if there's a second wave coming up? It can't be true that our pension is going to depend on that. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch deserve a fair, sure and united pension. Don't break this down. It would be a historic mistake. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you, Mr. De Jong. Mr Smeulders has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a special day for me today. I graduated from Tilburg University exactly ten years ago. So I've been working for ten years now and I've got at least 35 years left in my working life. That's a long way away, my pension, but I think it's a good thing that we're talking about pensions today, including the generation I stand for. Because I think very few people from my generation are working on pensions. I get that, because it's so far away. And you don't have to worry about it either, as long as it's settled properly. In my view, this is the problem we have with our pension system in recent years. There is a lot of resentment about it, because older people feel that they are getting too little and because young people feel that they may not even get anything. That is why, as GroenLinks, we are so incredibly pleased that the social partners and the cabinet managed to reach an agreement on a new pension system after ten years of negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr Smeulders talks about his graduation ten years ago. Maybe he can remember what he was earning then and what he's earning now. And does he want to compare that to what someone who retired ten years ago gets, and what they get now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u93	I've had an incredible career path. I realize that not everyone has that and that there are also many people making much less money. I also realize that ten years ago we were in the States together in Brabant. The State contribution was then my only income as a student. I think Mr Krol deserved a little more than I deserved at the time, but as a student I was incredibly happy about that. Mr. Chairman. We were so happy last year with that pension agreement because there were really some important improvements to it. People with heavy professions can retire sooner. More workers are going to retire. There will be disability insurance for the whole of the Netherlands. That is why we are pleased that there is now an impact of this pension agreement. The most important question we, as GroenLinks, have today, is how we are going to ensure that all the good intentions contained in this work, which we welcome, are actually worked out over the next five, six transition years. At the request of the Chamber, Professor Vandenbroucke wrote a very good piece on this subject. This professor advises us to come up with a pension compass, in which we will follow the goals agreed last year in the pension agreement. Is the Minister prepared to come up with such a pension compass? How, frankly, does it make very little difference to me so that, over the coming years, we do not get bogged down in the elaboration, but really continue to look at, for example, solidarity and collectivity, the objectives that we have agreed on? In our view, at least three points are very important to pay attention to in the coming years. The first is about a good pension. The target is still 80% middle wage after 42 years of work. What is the Minister going to do if it turns out that the next few years are not going to be achieved in the new system, if employers are perhaps going to lower contributions? Is the Minister prepared to intervene? The second point concerns the transition to this new system. It is very important that this transition is balanced. For example, there are now questions as to whether this is the case for people with a premium scheme. The VCP has put forward a proposal for this. I am very curious to hear Minister Koolmees' response to that proposal. We also find another idea of the VCP, about a pension label, which Mr Van der Linde of the VVD mentioned, very interesting. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response on that point. Mr. Chairman. My final point is about people who don't build a pension. We now have a debate on the new pension scheme for the next 30 to 40 years. But in recent years fewer people have started to build up their pensions. If we're not gonna do anything about it, we're gonna run the system. We must prevent this at all costs. We are pleased that there is now a comprehensive plan of attack from the Labour Foundation to ensure that more people start building up their pensions, but there are no targets in that plan of attack. What does the Minister want to achieve when? How can we assess in a few years' time whether that plan has worked? Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that action should be taken by the government if it turns out that in a few years' time no more people will be building up their pensions? Mr President, my final point. In the new system, it is particularly important that the years that you build up as a young person start to count extra heavily. We must therefore work together to ensure that more young people build up their pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr. Smeulders, you started your contribution by saying that it was exactly ten years since you graduated. I thought you were gonna tell me that your birthday is tomorrow and that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u95	It's my birthday tomorrow. And I was supposed to get married Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yeah, that's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u97	That's right. But I had so little speaking time that I skipped it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u98	Then here's the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u99	We'll do that wedding next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u100	Happy birthday. Enjoy. That's why I thought, "I'm gonna interrupt you, 'cause then you can tell me." Mr Bruins has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union. Do you have anything special to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u101	It's just a beautiful day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u102	That's right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u103	Count your blessings every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u104	That's right, that's right. And being healthy is also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u105	Yeah, sure. That's a blessing in itself. Mr. Chairman. Last June 19th, I wondered in this Chamber how the pension agreement would be interpreted later. At that time I thought: the slap of Koolmees, the wonder of Wouter or the miracle of the brave center. A few weeks ago I feared panic in the polder, but fortunately the polder can still do it. In my opinion, this was one of the last opportunities for the reasonable and courageous centre. It's a good thing you took that chance. My group welcomes what is now going on. The fact that this package is very much in line with the Christian Union election programme already indicates that it is a sensible agreement. Mr. Chairman. The fascinating thing is that ten years ago, in general, the same proposal was already before us. That has already been said by Mr Van der Linde. That proposal was then fired by certain parties in the polder. Can the Minister estimate how much pension growth has been wasted by the constant commitment to the so-called guaranteed pensions? What did those heels in the polder sand cost the honorable worker? In the new scheme, the pension is an estimate and not a commitment. If it's economical, we'll see it back in retirement sooner, but if it's bad, so will we. That's pretty exciting, if the results are disappointing. It therefore requires a very good explanation and communication. How does the Minister ensure that everyone gets a clear and real picture of his or her pension? Is the Minister prepared to give the pension administrators the room to provide tailor-made services in this respect? Then the transition to a flat premium. I spoke to a small employer with 15 employees, many young employees, who just switched to a premium scheme. Is this employer going to pay more pension contributions in the new scheme? Certainly, it is good that the perspective of the employees is always on the retina, but is the small employer also on the minister's retina? There is not yet a good solution to the gap for members of the premium scheme. Are there two systems next to each other for a long time now? Is that feasible? If you switch to another employer, don't you still have a hole? The Minister, in his letter, is ignoring this very quickly. I call on the Minister to look at this again and not to rush everything up and down. This requires proper consultation with employers and insurers. I'd like a response from the Minister. It is also a good thing that there is extensive attention in the package to the survivor's pension. I refer briefly to Mr Omtzigt's own-initiative paper and to the thorough advice of the Labour Foundation. I would like to hear from the Minister how he converts this opinion into concrete plans as soon as possible, so that we can settle this important issue properly. There are also still employees who do not receive a pension scheme from their boss. This is worrying, especially in the new system where the focus of retirement is at the beginning of the career. Then it is all the more important that young people also build up adequate pensions. It is good that the Labour Foundation has drawn up an attack plan following my motion and has also discussed it with youth organisations. But I would also like to draw attention to the small employers. I can imagine that there are small organisations that do not know at all that they should join a pension fund if they are in a particular sector. If you find out, this could lead to a significant post-tax of several years. What steps does the Minister take to help reduce this so-called white stain? Here, too, better information can help, for example when registering with the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union has previously advocated a generational test for major system changes. Thanks to our motion, this instrument is now being worked out. There's been a motion to use this pension agreement as a test case for that generational test. Are the agreements with this concreteisation of the pension agreement now ready for the generation test? I would like a response from the Minister, and therefore an appreciation of that motion at the moment. Finally, Mr President. What does the transitional regime look like? How will we deal with coverage rates and calculation rates in the coming years, as long as the new pension system has not yet been put in place? What prospects for improvement can we give people for the short term, as long as the new system is not yet in place? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u106	Thank you. Mr Gijs van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u107	A word about the generations that Mr Bruins is talking about, especially the young generations. That's a lot of flex workers. We've seen how vulnerable their position is. During the corona time this came to light. They immediately lost their jobs and their income. We call for flex workers, especially those in the broadcasting sector, not to set the waiting period to two months, but simply to abolish it, as is actually the case in all sectors. Can I find a supporter for this in Mr Bruins?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u108	I'm also worried about those flex workers, especially at this time. We can see how vulnerable they are now. I would like to think along with Mr Gijs van Dijk, because this puts many young people in a difficult position. So I would very much like to think with him about how far we can get in this. I would also very much like to hear how the Minister-in-Office of the Council can take a look at the question about him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Mr Stoffer has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u110	Mr. Chairman. I will start with a compliment to the Minister, because whatever you think of the pension agreement, it is a beautiful and a whole achievement. We can say that there is an agreement that is widely supported. And although it may not have been completely flawless on the trade unions' side, it turned out well in the end. Let me be clear straight away: the SGP is broadly in agreement with this agreement. The system is becoming more future-proof, which is urgently needed, and I hope that it will also become clearer and more understandable, with more scope for indexation. Mr. Chairman. The further development will certainly not go by itself. If we review the reactions from society to the agreement reached in recent weeks, then we can see that it is going to mean a lot. Well, that makes sense, too, because it's about something. I can very well imagine the concerns of pensioners about their pensions. It has been said on many occasions: in recent years pensions have not been indexed, despite the strong, strong, good economic growth that we have seen in society in recent years. We also see elderly people with a small pension who see their purchasing power go up in smoke and young people who have doubts as to whether there is anything left for them. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my first specific point. It's about communication. A great deal is going to change, and this pension dossier, of course, is simply about a lot of money. Then all sorts of contradictions can arise very quickly, for example between young and old and so on. But that solidarity is and remains very important. My question to the Minister is: how is he going to ensure that these changes are really well communicated with society? Does the Minister leave that to the funds, or does he also come up with clear information himself? The latter is my preference. Mr. Chairman. The average systematic system is abolished. That is good news, but there is a price tag for some EUR 60 billion. In particular, workers between 40 and 60, perhaps a little earlier, will decline if there is no compensation. I have only one specific question to ask. Who's gonna pay for that? Is that the employers, the older workers, the pension funds? I would like clarification from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. I have just announced it in an interrupting debate with Mr Van der Linde of the VVD: there are also employees who I found out over the last few days that they are already in a pension scheme without an average system. They are currently building up more pension claims at a later age. But because of this flat contribution in the new system, they will soon be able to build up fewer pensions and get much lower pension benefits. My question is: is the Minister going to deal with this? Is he at least willing to investigate this further? I would very much like to get a clear response to that. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the heavy-duty professions. It is good that there is serious work to be done on the survivor's pension, thatzzp's are given the opportunity to build up a voluntary pension and that there is also additional money for heavy-duty professions. But I do have a question on that last point. In my view, this is mainly about temporary measures. Think of the temporary relaxation of the RVU tax and the one-off additional budget for sustainable employability. My question to the Minister is: what structural measures is he going to take to meet the heavy-duty workers in the future? Is there also structural money for this? Mr. Chairman. My final point is disability insurance forzzp'ers. There is now a first proposal, but the Tax Administration and the UWV warn that the proposal will be difficult to implement. My question is: how will the Minister respond to these legitimate objections? What has been done with the motion in part No. 998 by Mrs Tielen and me, who we have tabled in the debate on the future of work? How is the proposal of the Borstlap Committee, an AOV for all workers, included in this discussion? Or does the Minister still see room for wider coverage of the opt-out, so that those with sufficient equity are also excluded? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Mr Wassenberg has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like this morning, I am replacing my colleague Lammert van Raan in this debate, who unfortunately has been prevented because of family conditions. Mr. Chairman. The problem with the current pension system is that pension funds have insufficient structural cash. I know: 1,500 billion is a number of 13 digits. That is a lot, but not if we want to offer some certainty to the young people of today. We had one of the best pension systems in the world, but low interest rates and ageing demand a different form of solidarity between generations. Mr. Chairman. Now the solution has been chosen to make our pensions dependent on how well or how badly the stock exchanges are doing. If stock market prices go skyhigh at all odds, we'll all be rich. But for the time being, that wishful thinking is more suited to a lottery than to reality. So a guess on the stock market, but with what's inlaid for old age. No more guarantees, but who lives then cares. That's the first guess we take with our pensions. Mr. Chairman. Both the old and the new systems are based on the little realistic idea of infinite economic growth. Stock exchanges are, by definition, based on the idea of infinite economic growth. After all, dividend has to come from somewhere? But by basing pensions on the system based on this idea fix, we're taking a second guess with our pensions. As Mr Van Raan said last year, that is as if we had to throw six in a row twice. The Party for Animals does not opt for the casino pension. My group has doubts as to whether all the routes have been properly examined. The capacity inequality is very high in the Netherlands, which has recently been confirmed. Partly financing pensions with taxes on profits and wealth will broaden the basis for financing. Other options include raising the basic income for the elderly, the AOW. That, by the way, is what Frank Vandenbroucke proposed yesterday in the NRC. Frank Vandenbroucke is former Minister of Pensions in Belgium and now Professor in Amsterdam. He suggested strengthening the AOW, but one could also think of raising the employer's contribution if pensions are threatened with reduction. I would like a response from the Minister to these possible options. Pension funds invest in the very long term, but we already know that some long-term investments will be worthless in a few years' time, such as investments in fossil energy. How is this taken into account in the investment policy of pension funds? Can pension participants be more involved if they disagree with the way their pension fund invests, for example in nuclear energy or animal testing? For the Animal Party, the principle of legal certainty is also very important, even when it comes to entering the new pension system. How does the Minister guarantee the rights of pension members who have accumulated claims in the past? How is the Minister going to close the financial gap created by abolishing the average premium? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The founders of this pension agreement have accepted much more long-term uncertainty in order to reduce short-term uncertainty. But that's all in hope of blessing. The Party for Animals is not for constantly putting forward our problems. This is what we do in the climate crisis, in the biodiversity crisis, in the pandemic risks of dealing with animals and now in the pension system. There must be a cultural change. Economic growth cannot go on forever. We will have to get used to the idea that we have to settle for less or no growth, not as a result of disappointing investment income, but because we will have to stay within the limits of what the planet can offer us, with no distortion in prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is now over a year since the pension agreement was concluded. We knew then that there was still a lot to work out. Recently, the first large horde has been taken, and that is not an insignificant hurdle, because in the past reforms have been killed in this very horde. There were already agreements on the increase in the AOW age and on the possibility of taking up 10% of your pension assets at the same time at your retirement time if you want. In addition, the result is that in the future there will be two pension contracts. One is an improved contribution scheme under the Act; a full personal pension, but still collectively invested. The second is the new pension contract. This last contract has been worked very hard over the past year, by scientists, representatives of employers and employees and ministers' staff. Mr. Chairman. My group supports the improvements that have been made. They are improvements because there is now a new pension contract that actually makes 90 cents of every euro you deposit available for your personal pension. Like my colleague, Eppo Bruins, I recognize elements of our own electoral programme. 10% goes to a solidarity reserve to share risks between generations. I might not have thought of that reserve myself, but it is very anchored. That would also be my first question to the Minister. That 90% of the premium goes to your personal pension assets is a really big step forward, but do I understand that both of them are being invested in a way that fits the life stage in which you are in, and the good distribution rules for the solidarity reserve are not only enshrined in the legislation, but also in the pension regulations, so that you can claim that as a participant? Mr. Chairman. Is the transition therefore clear on the basis of which argument your pension fund chooses for one of these two contracts? And is everything that is underlying for participants also transparent, even when it comes to boarding, for example, so that they can see what is happening? Because I think that's crucial to restoring trust. Mr. Chairman. This results in a pension where the probability of indexing increases and becomes more transparent because you can see how much capital is built up for you. And yes, there is more chance of indexing if things go well, because there is no need to build up a buffer first, which is the case with the current contract. But if things aren't right, you're gonna find out sooner. A number of shock absorbers have been built in for this, but the reality is that this was already such that the economy and how it works on the stock market, for example, have an impact. This is the case in the current system, and it is in the new system. I think we're just more honest about it. It is precisely because the system is clear what belongs to who and because it is clear that we are no longer making real promises because we cannot deliver them, that we can also get rid of the interest rate. This was also the case, for example, with the contract from my election programme. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few very precise questions. I had already asked if all this would be included in the pension regulations. Am I to understand that the 90% premium in your own pension assets is de facto invested in accordance with the lifecycle? As a result, older people and retired people are at less risk from interest rates than they really are and can be invested more offensively for young people, because the time at which they need that money lies further in the future. That, of course, makes it important that we do something about the white spots. I would therefore like to repeat the question put by Mr Smeulders. That's right, if you're young and you're retiring, it'll be more profitable. Now, almost half of this doesn't go to others via the average systematic. That's your own pension now. So that's important. My second specific question concerns 2026. Couldn't we do that a little faster? I understand how complicated it is, but every day before that, it seems to me to be a profit. The last question concerns the survivor's pension. My party and I have been arguing for much longer in this regard for the standardisation of the concept of a partner. Sometimes people don't get a pension now, when they've lived with someone for a long time. In fact, sometimes one is the partner of the other, but not the other way around. The Minister has been given an opinion on this. He says: I am actually going farther in that uniformity, because I want to regulate that legally. I wholeheartedly support that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u115	During the corona crisis, we held various debates on support for all types of companies, employees andzzp'ers. You're right. That was necessary. We have also paid a great deal of attention to the position of flex workers. I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg how he feels that there is no waiting time in all sectors. The minister says, "I'm going from six months to two months." I would very much like the Chamber today to take the step to zero, because then you'll agree with everyone. The argument of red tape, which the broadcasting sector will always mention, does not have other sectors either, because you have no administration at all. Everyone just builds up retirement. Can I find Mr Van Weyenberg as a supporter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u116	Together, the Labour Party and D66 have worked very hard to regulate flex workers. It is an imperfect arrangement, but it is still a small support for a lot of people. So I welcome that, like Mr Van Dijk. Then the question. That the waiting period goes back a lot, I think it's a really big profit. But two months is still a long time. So my question, too, is: why didn't the social partners come out to bring that back? In addition, I do not think we want one thing, and these are mini-mini-migratory pensions whose administration costs far more than that. So that would be the only guarantee I'm making. But I also agree with Mr Van Dijk. He knows that in the long run I would like to go further: that you can always take your retirement with you. Then you want as few holes in that pension as possible. I would like to pay attention to too high implementation costs, but I think that is a concern that Mr Gijs van Dijk shares with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u118	Of course, we also have that concern, because when they get very high, you end up with nothing left, especially if you have a small pension. But we're going to a new system that's simpler and simpler. I think that it is possible in this new system and that it is important, because young people need to build up their pension right away and not wait very long, because they have to start early.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u119	Sure. Once again, I hope to have the support of the Labour Party in the long term when it comes to making it much easier to build that pension in one place, which you choose. Then you won't have any more pension breaks like this. But I'd like to see how far we can get with this. I say honestly: there is, in my view, extensive consultation between the social partners. The fact that they do not come out is disappointing to me, but I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk: especially in the new system there are just those young years. Many people in the broadcasting sector work there early in their careers. Then this is just really worrying; so once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u120	Let me ask you a question on this point. Mr Van Weyenberg clearly points out that these young years in the new system are only becoming more important. We also see that fewer and fewer young people are building up their pensions. It is therefore very important to achieve a trend break. Can Mr Van Weyenberg indicate how he is looking at the White Stain Pension Attack Plan made by the Labour Foundation? Is that hard enough in his eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u121	What's bothering me is that we don't have a pension obligation in this country. We could choose to do that as a chamber, but we didn't. It was the party of Mr Smeulders who asked a great deal of attention for these white spots when the pension agreement was concluded. I support that. In the new system, it becomes even more important. The real mini-mini-pensions, which cost more than you've built up, I don't think we want any of them. But I agree with you that we need to keep our finger on the wrist very carefully. I am assuming that the social partners, who have co-concluded this agreement, will share with Mr Smeulders and share with me that the years that have been missed are now going to be particularly hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u122	A brief follow-up question. We're all saying those first years are so important. We see that we are now taking steps in the polder to ensure that more people, more young people, are building up pensions. If in the coming years the polder will not succeed in ensuring that this white spot, that is, the group of people who do not build a pension, is really getting smaller, does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that we, as politicians and as government, are inclined to do so, precisely in this new system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u123	For the record, we are talking about employees. I think that is equally relevant, because we have made a different kind of agreement for the self-employed, in which the self-employed is in the lead. I support that. I note, however, that both Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk seem to have little confidence that there is a decentralised solution. I really hope that the urgency will be shared there. I have been told here that you have accused me of intervening in the labour negotiations. Of course, I would never want that on my conscience... But without kidding: I share your point, but I actually want them to do it themselves. I would find it very disappointing if the ball ended up with us, because employers and employees have a very great interest here, together with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA. How are you, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u125	Very well, Madam President. I beg your pardon? Yeah, I read those pieces at any time of the day it suits me, Mr. Chairman. That's no problem at all. This is quite an important debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u126	"Debate"? A debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u127	It's four minutes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u128	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u129	I was just a little late, and I apologize to the SP that I was doing something else. I was held up by a few journalists, who were asking me questions on a totally irrelevant subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u130	Now we want to know! No, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u131	But I do sympathize with one thing, and that's what I'm saying in advance. There is a reform here for the largest part of the Dutch economy, namely 1,500 billion. That's about as much as we make in two years, and maybe we should work for it even longer when the corona crisis is deeper. That requires a certain amount of care. And whether that's four or five minutes, I want to get rid of that, but I suggest we put one or two days in our agenda at the beginning of September for a hearing to review all these aspects one by one. This is about the sustainability of European law, which is about the calculation of the measure of income, and that is about the system of acceptance. Those are all questions that concern hundreds of billions. I am going to say that even after that hearing I can have additional questions that I do not have all of them now. And that might be a threat from my mouth. Mr. Chairman. It's nice that the social partners got out. Good, because this has been talked about for years, and now there's a new pension contract under which at least there's support in the polder. But that doesn't mean that every point here is clear. I would like to go through a number of points on which I would like to have an explanation from the government. Don't you get a generational conflict in the fund if the young people don't want to take too much risk, for example the interest rate risk? What if they don't agree with the fund's decision that pensioners are not at risk from interest? And how is it calculated which allocation of returns leads to a uniform adjustment of the expected pension? That is a new parameter, and well, it seems to be a redistribution parameter. I would like to know: from what age, and how are the elderly's associations involved? And how are these two systems, the old and the new, going to work side by side? I'm not satisfied with the survivor's pension, and I'll also tell you exactly why. I thought we were getting advice very late. And two groups fall out: if you become disabled first and then die. And let me tell you: that's a normal course of action if you have a progressive disease, if you have cancer or whatever. You usually get sick first. Then you will be rejected, first partially and then completely. And sometimes someone dies after three or four years. That's a painful process. But this coverage only provides for cover as long as you have an employer or payment of wages in case of illness. If you're sick for more than two years, you don't have a paycheck in case of illness anyway. And if you get seriously ill, your IVA check will be brought forward, so that pay-as-you-go payment can also expire earlier. I would not want this group to remain outside the scope of the survivor's pension. That would be a huge omission. I urge the government and the social partners to find a solution to this. I'd like a commitment to that. Two. At the time you have a disease among your members and want to become a self-employed person, there is no guaranteed survivor's pension cover; there is no insurance company you want to take. But I think that someone who has a common disease with a slightly increased risk... Mr Van Weyenberg has worked very hard for people who have recovered from a disease, but this is another group that has a similar case. Of someone who has ever recovered from cancer, for example, an insurer will say: I'm not going to cover it. I'd like that. So I would have a solution for that too. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a lot of points. I would like to know how the costs remain under control and I would like to get a commitment on this. As far as we are concerned, we are talking again about the expiry of the individual right of objection. It's nice that the social partners write that down, but this is what the legislator is about. We would like to receive all the EU tests that have been carried out. We would like to have a pass-through: if this system had been introduced in 1945, how would it have worked with the returns over the last 75 years? At a separate moment, I would like to return to the fact that with current ECB policies and negative interest rates, this remains a rather difficult one anyway. Under the DC scheme, this pension contract is going to have a huge impact on a lot of people in the labour market. Those consequences are just undesirable. When you're 20 and you're in an arrangement right now, you have to resign very quickly and get back into service, because then you'll end up in the new arrangement. When you're 45, you have to stick to your desk with gold chains. I ask the Minister whether there are ways of not letting these million workers have this labour market problem. Finally, a question before 1 September, before we begin the hearing. I would like to have some kind of explanation of two or three pages, on the basis of which the average person in the Netherlands should understand language level B2, I would like to say how the new pension system is going to work. I understand that's what didn't happen in the speed. I would also like a second explanation, namely how it will work. This is the most important financial contract. I'm not asking for an AFM proof financial package leaflet, because then it gets 200 pages, but something that makes it understandable, so we all understand what we're talking about. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u132	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenk, you saved the last question for Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u133	Of course, Mr. Chairman. If only to hope with him that he will receive wonderful news tomorrow, but that aside. I'm not a CDA bomber, I'm sorry! Mr Omtzigt is profiling himself by saying that he wants to protect the citizens from the great evil government. My mailbox is filled with messages from people who still know about the grip in Mr Lubbers' cash, but also about the threat of skimming, so that the pension funds were too full and the premiums had to go down. You are now discussing the question of boarding. At Retirement Pro a suggestion was made by the former actress of PGM, Jan Tamerus, who appealed to us very much. He proposed to establish the transition measure with an interest rate structure of at least 2%, to at least recover a particle from what has now shifted from old to young. Is that something the CDA could be open for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u134	I would certainly invite Mr Tamerus to the hearing to explain this proposal. Why don't I say yes now and no, as an accomplished politician as you'll say? Because these are questions that can have consequences from billions or tens of billions. That's exactly why I want to see some credit transfers and have more information. In fact, I am rather surprised that we did not first organise a number of hearings before doing this debate, rather than the other way round. These are very careful questions that require careful answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u135	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mr. Chairman. The best student in school, with always wonderful grades, is dismissed. Suddenly it's said he's not good enough. Facts get twisted; pack up, get out. That is exactly what this minister is doing with our pension system. That is the best thing in the world: fair, social, excellent profit. Our savings fund doubled in 12 years to the astronomical amount of 1,500 billion. That is a fifteen with eleven zeros, Madam President. However, the Minister insists that the current system is unsustainable. He drowns his plans at the expense of the elderly and young people and for the benefit of employers. And who's the biggest employer? Yes, exactly: the government. To push his ideas through, he counts in projections people who haven't even been born yet and haven't contributed a penny. And his plans make the pension more uncertain for all employees. The solution of this minister is one for a problem that does not exist at all. Pensioners are screwed, because their pension is simply exchanged for an uncertain benefit, which is reduced in the event of a headwind. Indexation is not included in the coming years. Missing indexation is not compensated, because of that money the Minister wants to pay for this billion-dollar transitional operation. And what happens after that, no one knows. The defendants can no longer object to the court on their own, since the Minister has lifted the individual right of objection. We are opposed to the abolition of this and to the unnecessary dismantling of our pension system. Problems can be solved within the current system by a secure 2% floor in the calculation rate and a more flexible investment mix. This unpredictable new system is not necessary at all. In any case, the individual right of objection must continue to exist and every effort must be made not to reduce existing pensions. And it is wrong that the current pensioners, who have not been indexed for 12 years, are paying for the 60 billion-dollar abolition of the average premium. Our advice: Give everyone a better future and stop this madness while we still can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u137	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u138	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Here is a proud and highly motivated minister. Today I am going to debate the pension agreement and its impact with your Chamber. That is a complete package of our pension system of the future. It's the result of 20 years of talking, ten years of negotiating and a lot of working out in the last year. And then there are all kinds of questions, and legitimate questions, asked by your Chamber today. It was a tough negotiation process, but fortunately we got out with the social partners. It was not always easy, but it is important to stress that we have brought this complex process to a successful conclusion, because it is a complex process, together with employers and trade unions. I'm proud of that. This also gives the necessary support to the future for the further development, because there is a lot of work to be done in the coming period. All these parties will be needed for further development. It's not the first time we've talked about this subject. It will certainly not be the last time, because there is still a great deal of legislation to come, the concrete implementation of these agreements in concrete legislation to be discussed in your Chamber. There are many large and many small steps and also milestones throughout the process. Last year I sent the road map to your room, but of course there are a lot of laws coming your way. Think about the RVU law, think about the AOW law and think about the details of the pension contracts. I understand very well that your Chamber itself wishes to collect information through hearings in order to clarify all these steps. Importantly, there are big questions, for example, when you can stop working earlier, how we can all organise the best possible retirement provision that is future-proof, with tailor-made work, also for heavy work, and, not least, how we can achieve a pension in which all generations can have confidence again. It is an important point, I think, that over the last ten years there has been a lot of crankiness in the pension debate and there has been a lot of distrust. The present system has suffered a great deal in this respect. Think of the lack of indexations, but also of the recurring and threatening discounts. The system is therefore in desperate need of renewal. The foundation laid down in the 1950s has been eroded and no longer fits in with current demographics, the current labour market and the current economy. There is broad consensus on this analysis and on the necessity and urgency of this renovation, since 2010, when the report of the Goldswaard Committee was published. That was ten years ago, at the beginning of my political career in this Chamber. Mr Smeulders: congratulations on your graduation ten years ago. I joined the Chamber in June 2010 as pension spokesperson. Then the report of the Goldswaard Committee had just appeared. I am therefore pleased that we have taken a major step forward ten years in this area. All reports since 2010, e.g. the opinions of the 2015 and 2019 Economic and Social Council, have been important guidance in the negotiations. All these reports left little to be desired. They all note that the current system is unsustainable in the long term and pointed to causes such as ageing, increased life expectancy and increased vulnerability in financial markets. It is therefore really time to modernise in 2020. Doing nothing isn't an option anymore. That is why I hope that the package before us will convince the Chamber. I fully support it. There is a balanced package that regulates the provision of old age in the Netherlands well and responsibly, with due regard for the interests of all generations, adapted to the demands of modern times, but preserving the good elements of the old system. I also think it is a solid package, a combination of AOW for everyone, paid from the general funds, and a personal pension capital that you build together with your employer in a collective and also solidarity system. The Netherlands has one of the best old age facilities in the world. We must be proud of that, and we must remain proud of it. I think we can hold on to that with this package. Mr. Chairman. May I finish my introduction? Then I'm gonna do the cubes, too. Fortunately, the agreement has now proved to be widely supported by the grassroots. This is very important, because we are going to make the pension system future-proof for the coming decades, and this requires broad political but also social support. The design and development of such a pension agreement and a new pension system is not easy. You don't do that on your own, to say the least. I would like to thank here and today all the parties and individuals who have worked very hard in recent years to make this impact a success. I am talking about the experts from the technical working associations, the Klankbordgroep young/oud, the Scientific Board, the members of the preparatory group and the steering committee, for example representatives of the cabinet and of the social partners, and also members of the CPB, DNB and the AFM, the Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies, as well as employees from many different ministries who have participated in the elaboration of this. These people all deserve an honourable mention, because they have worked very hard over the past year to work this out. Again, a step in the right direction. I have great confidence in the steps being taken here, but also in the forthcoming legislative process and in the period of transition. I shall now go into the following blocks in succession. My first block is the new contract. Then a balanced transition. Then the ftk in the transition period. Then the survivor's pension, the white spots and the other subjects. With that, I have all your questions in my set, if that's all right. Do you want me to repeat it? I've got six blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u140	No, no, no. I am also thinking about colleagues' questions. I propose that five questions be asked. Don't grumble, don't grumble. I'm going to go about that, Mr. Ommzigt, so you have to be very nice. This counts equally, one less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u141	I have saved four more from the first deadline, but eight or so questions would be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u142	No, it doesn't work that way, and eight is way too much. There are 13 spokesmen. Let's say we have four questions, what I was actually planning. Then that means that the Minister has to answer 52 questions four times thirteen. That's how I look at it, so I suggest five questions... I'm nothing; it's just five questions. If a question has remained unanswered somewhere, you will have the opportunity to ask it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u143	It is about a reform of about 1,500 billion. By the way, that's a one with 12 zeros. Mr Krol had accidentally cut pensions by 90%. It's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u144	Good. Thank you. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr Koolmees said in his introduction: "Listen, there is a lot of grumpy about our pension system. This has to do with the fact that there can be no indexing and that is because of the threatening discounts. The pension system was created in the 1950s. It's not like this anymore, so we have to get rid of it." Now D66 was founded in the 1960s. From that reasoning you could also say that the party must be dissolved; at least I am in favour of that. But that is obviously a crazy way to look at the best pension system in the world. If Mr Koolmees were really worried about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u146	The Minister is, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u147	Yes, that's the Minister and his name is Mr Koolmees. If Mr Koolmees was really worried about trust in the pension system, why does he come up with nothing at all when it comes to the group that has not been indexed for 12 years and has not been indexed for 18 years in 2026? That doesn't give young people confidence in building up pensions at all. So what are you going to do to restore that confidence? What compensation are you going to give to that group that has been out of business for years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u148	It's actually two questions. The first question is: what has changed since 1950? A lot of things I think: demographic changes, ageing. I also think that we are dealing with a different labour market than in the years, for example more two-earners or one-and-a-half earners. I think that we are also dealing with a very different maturity of the pension system with a reduction in contributions. You used to be able to cover deficits with an increase in the premium, but you can't do that anymore. The premium is now around EUR 30 billion per year and the pension assets total EUR 1,500 billion. So if there are blows on the financial markets, as we saw in 2008 with Lehman Brothers or this year with the corona crisis, it is impossible to cope with them with the premiums. We've all gotten older, too. We live longer. Those are reasons to think about your pension system. That's not really news. That was already the analysis of the Goudswaard Commission and the Economic and Social Council in 2010. Ten years of work has been done to make it more future-proof. That's one. Two. I understand very well that people are grumpy. I have seen this in recent years: people who have not been indexed for ten years. This applies not only to pensioners but also to workers. You and I, too, have not been indexed for the past ten years, because the pension funds have been in a bad financial situation. That is why it is so important that we move towards a new system, which can be indexed faster if it goes economically well. We know it's easier to explain when people can relate it to the economy, to the state of the economy, and they see that if it goes well, people benefit from it, but if it goes bad, it gets cut or it gets a little less. That has not actually happened in the past 15 years, which has led to a reduction threat, which people do not understand, constantly if it went very well economically. And I understand very well that people don't understand that. That is why it is so important that we switch to the new system, in which the movement goes more automatically with the economy. This makes it easier for people to follow what happens to their pension than the current system, which is a black box for a lot of people. Sorry, Chairman. I'm a little tedious. I can try to do it so shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u149	Yes. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u150	Better explainable? When people are asked in polls or investigations, they indicate that they don't understand anything about what's on the table anymore. Yeah, I get that. Because when it comes to the average systematic, it's not concrete how that happens. Entrance of current pension rights is uncertain. Solidarity reserve, no idea what that's gonna look like. Current pensioners, how are they compensated? It's all unclear, all uncertain. All pension specialists agree that there are still a lot of open ends to this whole agreement, while in the meantime there is a pension system that will function better only if you make the right choices. My main question is why, if Minister Koolmees is really concerned about the grumpy situation over the last ten years, whether it is as a Member of Parliament or as a minister, in any attempt to improve the current system, whether it is about adjusting the interest rate, whether temporarily or not, in order to prevent reductions or even indexation, which is precisely the point of pain he is putting forward here, he said he was against it and why he is now saying that it is important that this should happen and that we should therefore have a new system, which is not happening at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u151	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u152	Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u153	Well, because I always thought that was unfair and because it undermines the basis of the system. It actually says: we are moneying out now, and we are seeing to the future whether enough money is still reserved for the workers and future generations. That would, in my opinion, damage the basis of our collective system, in which we all pay a premium and jointly ensure the long-term risk of life, and thus mean the end of it, and I do not want to do so. So precisely in order to prevent erosion of the support for our beautiful system, I have always stopped that turning on the interest rate button, because then you immediately have a conflict between generations. We have seen this over and over again in the last ten years when it comes to this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u154	This new system is presented as a system that will ensure that discounts are indexed and avoided. He'll be able to stop those discounts. He doesn't need this new system for that. He can do that if he just applies the Pension Act and uses a little common sense. Then we can do it already. And when it comes to indexing: that is how it is sold, but Mr Koolmees himself has also indicated that no indexation is going to take place in the coming years. So there will soon be a group that will not be indexed for almost 20 years. That's what kids see. You come up with a lot of positivity, but at the same time you see that there is a group that doesn't get it, that gets no indexing and no compensation. The kid sees that and loses faith. You are creating even more distrust in the pension system. And how can you prevent that from happening a little bit? By saying: that group that has been hit so hard, that has never been allowed to benefit, we are going to compensate them. But you don't! What's fair about that the moment you see for years that your pension is going to pay off, but you don't get it yourself, and that if you die at some point, you've never been allowed to take advantage of it? What's fair about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u155	Then I repeat my response from just now. It is not the case that only pensioners are not indexed. All participants are also covered by the same rules for all workers, but they see that they may not have been indexed in recent years because of the financial position of their fund. We have had the debate on the interest rate here many times. I believe that my opinion on this is well known. I am very pleased that we are taking this agreement another step forward and can leave the grumpy behind us and look to the future. Much remains to be done for this, but at least that is the biggest gain of this agreement. Mr. Chairman. This brings me straight to block 1, about the new contract. Social partners will be able to choose between two premium schemes. One is the already existing law improved contribution scheme and the other is the renewed pension contract. Compared to last year's pension agreement, the new contract has been developed in order to achieve better implementation of the objectives set. This pension scheme no longer works with claims, i.e. no longer with liabilities, which also have to be valued at risk-free accounting rates. I see that as the great gain of this new contract. For that is also my wish to put an end to this continuous generational debate on the calculation rate between young and old. On the other hand, the new contract provides for the creation of a personal capital reserve for the benefit. I am in favour of the addition of'reserved for the benefit', because it is not a separate savings fund that can be freely spent. Pension building, regardless of whether you do so in terms of capital or claims, is always meant for a pension benefit. A projection method is used for the relationship between the agreed contribution and the expected pension and its objectives, for the communication of the expected pension and for the tax limit. In the new contract there is still one collective between the active, pensioners and sleepers and there is a collective investment policy. Intrinsic part of the new contract is a so-called collective solidarity reserve. This is a collective capital that is filled with premiums and/or over-reward. With this limited capacity, risks within and with future generations are shared according to clear and balanced rules across age groups. On average, this solidarity leads to a better result for pensions for all members of the collective and welfare gains.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u156	I don't know how far you're going with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u157	This is my introduction to block 2. Then I have a few specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u158	Okay. Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mr. Chairman. With all due respect, I have made a request for a little more speaking time for Members of Parliament. That was rejected by the government parties minus the CDA. You have limited us in the number of interruptions. And then I have to say that the Minister is simply reading his letter here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u160	You have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yes, I want to make a point of this, because we can also use that space for the debate. We all read the letter. This doesn't seem like a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u162	I got the question of exactly what it was like because there are so many questions. Now I'm going to explain that. I would very much like to have a few brief answers, Mr President, but you have asked me all these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u163	I just see that the minister is kind of reading his letter here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u164	I do not agree on speaking time, but in the end the Chamber deals with it. If a majority does not want an increase in speaking time, then that is simply the case. Knowing you, I think you were able to say what you wanted to say. With regard to the number of interruptions, it is important to agree with each other in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u165	Sure. I certainly do not want to undermine your authority either, but if a little more room can be found for the debate by skipping the reading of letters, I would prefer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr. Chairman. I always notice that there are a lot of questions about what is in the letter, so I think it is important that I explain what is in the letter and what its background is. I'm gonna try to do it shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u167	That's good, but I'm asking you to answer the questions in particular. That's what it was all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u168	What I do think is important is that it becomes clear, for example, that there is a single more insight for participants into what premium is being deposited, what it is for each participant personally reserved for the benefit and how much pension they can expect. This is also made visible every year. That is an important element in the contract. Two: we no longer have buffers in the new system, which makes it possible to index faster than in the current system. And three: there has also been a lot of fuss over the past period that there would be uncertainty in pensions. We have made three agreements that can stabilise pension benefits, for example by taking into account young and old in investment policy and also through a solidarity reserve, which can absorb buffers. There were a few concrete questions about the contract. Mr Van der Linde asked which contract the funds chose. I expect most of the funds to implement the new contract. This is not for the funds, but for the decentralised social partners, who agree on the pension scheme. The collective risk sharing between the present generation and future generations is intrinsically part of the new contract. This arrangement of the contract is in line with the way pension funds have already set up their investment policies and administration. If you ask me which ones are going to go to the WFP, I think that these are especially sectors where there is more volatility, where there is more influx and outflow, with people changing jobs faster. Think, for example, of the catering industry or the retail trade. That would be my assessment, but it's up to the social partners. They must therefore make their own choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u169	I am referring to the point that the Minister says that there is a great deal of security built in. One of these points is the smearing in ten years; that already removes some of the shocks. You also have a solidarity reserve, but you also get the lowest return. My question is why there is no choice. Why can't you say, "We invest collectively. In this way, the return is also of the collective. It's gonna be smeared in 10 years. There's that solidarity reserve"? Isn't that all the taking away part of the shocks? Now it seems like we're all going to give the seniors just fixed-rate values, which means they have almost zero returns. 35% shares and 65% fixed-rate values mean that you're about nothing left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u170	The latter is not the case. Moreover, this is always up to the social partners, given the risk perception and willingness of the participants of the fund. There may also be a difference. With a fund with participants with a small supplementary pension, a different consideration can be made about how much risk you are willing to take than with funds with a substantial supplementary pension. If you have a high income, you may or may not want to take a higher risk than if you have a small supplementary pension. It is therefore up to the social partners at the level of regulation. They have to divide how much risk one is prepared to take. Then, of course, investment policy also takes into account the distribution of risks and also the risk appetite of the individual. If you are younger, you can take a shock, a negative shock, namely longer because you have a longer investment horizon. For example, it has been built up to prevent too much volatility in the benefit phase. That has always been a point made by Mr Omtzigt, also in last year's debates. There are a number of protection mechanisms in place to prevent pensioners from going up or down very sharply in their benefits from one day to the next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u171	Then the point about the grumpy. Mr. De Jong made a point: a lot of people haven't been indexed in years. Now the prospect is that this will not happen until 2026. In fact, there may also be discounts. I would like to know whether the Minister is prepared to ensure that these discounts are not raised during that period. And even then, in 2026 we might have a return but we're gonna smear it out in ten years. When the hell are the pensioners gonna have some inflation correction? When is it gonna happen? I'm starting to get the grumpy part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u172	I think there are two things that are relevant here. One is that I have no idea what the economy is going to do in the next few years. We're in a corona crisis. There's a lot of uncertainty. The fairs have taken a lot of blows down, but have also had recovery up again. A lot of governments have intervened. But to be honest, next year's Central Planning Bureau will have four or three scenarios of what could possibly happen in 2021. We are talking about the period 2022-2026. There's just a big uncertainty. That's one. Everything I say about that is gratuitous. I can't make it happen at all. What if there's a big blow, for whatever reason? This naturally affects our pension system. Because we've been saving money. So that's one. So I can't give you that assurance. I can't say for sure that no cuts are made. The second point is that in the current system, Mr Van der Linde said that rightly, the buffers need to be built up before they can be partially or fully indexed. It is expected that there will be a very long period of time in the years to come; you never know for sure, because you do not know what the economy and the stock markets are going to do. In the new system, you can't build up those buffers and distribute the returns you get faster. However, the new system must be introduced. The current law, on which rights are derived and on which one can go to court, must be adapted to such a new system. That's what we're talking about here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u173	The stakes were: indexing for each generation. I hear the Minister say here: we are not excluding pension cuts in the coming years. Can the Minister explain how he reached this agreement with social partners?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u174	Firstly, we have compared the current contract and the new contract with the Central Planning Bureau and thirteen funds. This shows that the new contract scores better in terms of the amount of benefit than the current contract. That's one. That is also why trade union negotiators have said: we can defend this well to our supporters, because we are indexing faster and distributing faster. That's one. Two: anyone who says that no matter what happens, you can rule out ever being cut short. Because we don't know what's happening. We have invested EUR 1,500 billion in the financial markets. We have already done so in the current system. The current system is therefore also sensitive to financial shocks. That is also what I say to Mr Wassenberg: the current system also invests in shares and bonds, so the current system is also sensitive to shocks on the financial markets. We saw that in 2008 and in 2009 with Lehman Brothers. We saw that this year, too, when we came at once below 90% coverage. We invest in shares and bonds, and they are susceptible to real economic shocks. So I can't give you a guarantee, and I don't want to give you a guarantee in this place either. However, I can say that we always do that every year we think about purchasing power. If necessary, something can be arranged by increasing the elderly discount, via the AOW, which is indexed twice a year, i.e. through all such elements. But a generic guarantee that can never be cut, I cannot and will not give.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u175	We are talking today about the pension deal this minister made. Part of that deal is that indexing, after 12 years of non-indexation, is unlikely to take place in the coming years and that pensions can simply be reduced in the coming years. We have to acknowledge that that is the agreement that this minister has made and which he is defending here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u176	Then Mr. Van Kent will have to tell the whole story. If we had remained in the current system, in the current system, the chance of substantial reductions would have been very real in the coming years. Mr Van Kent is not making that comparison right now. That's not a fair comparison. That is what Mr Van Kent has to say. Mr. Van Kent always comes back with: "Then we'll just increase the calculation rate, won't we? Then there is no problem anymore." Mr Van Kent then shifts the risk to the workers and to the younger generations. There's no free money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u177	I hear the Minister say here: if we had remained in the current system, there would have been great discounts. They're on the table. That's just what the Minister himself said. So that means that the generation that hasn't had an index for 12 years, both employees and pensioners, can whistle to that index in the coming years, and as far as this minister is concerned, it can even expect major reductions in pensions in the coming years. I believe that the deal that this minister has made is a blow to the face of pensioners and workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr Van Kent is turning it into a debate trick. He's acting like there's no pain in the current system. It is not that we do not have any discounts in the current system next year. Funds should normally return to the minimum own funds requirement of 104.5% within a number of years. They should build buffers to a coverage rate of 125%, 130% before they can fully index. That's the current law. That is the current law that has been established in this Chamber. I've had two years in a row...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u179	All I noticed is that this minister made arrangements...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr President, I was still speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u181	Mr. Van Kent...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u182	... which means that pensions can simply be reduced in the coming years. That the Minister is defending it here instead of taking his responsibility and coming to the Chamber with a proposal so that those pensions are not reduced. Instead, the Minister is defending an agreement that he has made that blow after blow that pensioners have already had, which is a final blow, namely reduction of pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u183	Three things. One. I am very upset about the current system, which has been in force for ten years, for pensioners and for young people and for workers, and I understand that very well. Two. We have developed a new system and compared it to the current system. This shows that the new system scores better in terms of expected benefits than the current system. That's two. Three. If we were to stick to the current system, reductions and reductions would be more likely than in the new system. That's the honest story. That's the honest equation. If I were to say "no whining, everyone rich," I'd give a false idea of things. I'm not. Mr Van Kent thinks that all the problems will be solved if we increase the rate of calculation. That is not the case, because then confidence in the current system erodes, because the young people think "what remains for me in the current system?'. That's just not a fair representation of things. Mr Van Kent is now making it a debate trick, as if I wanted to cut short. I don't want to cut short at all. I would very much like it to be indexed. But you have to make an honest comparison and keep telling the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u184	Finally, Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u185	The fair story is that pensions are becoming more uncertain. That after 12 years there will be no indexing that will go on for years to come. That this minister accepts that pensions will be reduced in the coming years will be cut, instead of coming to the Chamber under the responsibility he has here with a proposal to prevent that. That's what we're seeing. That's not a debate trick. That is the harsh reality that many pensioners and workers face.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u186	In concrete terms, I proposed, also in the letter to your Chamber, that funds should not be reduced by 2021, for next year, if they have a coverage rate of 90% or higher. That is a concrete measure, which is also contained in the letter. That is precisely because of the particular economic circumstances caused by the corona crisis. That's the second year in a row we've been doing this. Last year we did the same because of the negotiations on the pension agreement. The concrete proposal I put forward in your Chamber is therefore not to cut short before 2021, unless a fund is so badly in financial terms that it would be irresponsible not to reduce the level of coverage to 90%. Why do I do that? If you do not go back to 90%, the risk is very high that such a fund becomes a sinking giant and is therefore actually getting worse. And then the workers and the young end up with a deficit. And I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u187	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u188	Yes. Then there is the shopping right of Mr Van der Linde's new contract; a completely different subject. The new contract remains based on collectivity and solidarity. That is why shopping law has never been part of the collective contract. It shares risks between active members and beneficiaries, as well as with future members on the basis of the so-called IGR, the intergenerational risk sharing, on the basis of collective investment policy for the whole population. Shopping law would break this collective risk sharing. That is why this new contract does not include the right to shop. It is possible to improve the premium scheme in the Act, which provides a framework for the available premium scheme in which more room can be made for individual choices of the participants. There is therefore a choice between a fixed pension or a variable pension. That is the answer to Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u189	What seems to me to be so attractive about the fact that we will soon have a visible own pension funds, is that it is recognizable and that you can take it easier for that reason. That's why I thought, "Shop straight is a piece of cake." But the Minister doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u190	Yeah, because that's an integral part of the entire contract because you share risks. You invest after retirement, but you also share the risks about the still employed and future generations through that new contract and the IGR function that is in it, through that solvency buffer. If you put shopping law into that, you'd be at risk of that collective risk sharing being broken by people who step out. That's why. It is different at the core than when you make a cut between the build-up phase and the benefit phase, as provided for in the Improved Premium Scheme Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u191	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr Smeulders spoke about the objectives of pension building. Is there a guarantee that sufficient contributions will be paid to meet the pension objective? The effect of the pension agreement indicates that the collective agreement parties regularly check whether the agreed stable contribution is sufficient for the defined pension objective. Once every few years, the collective agreement table looks at whether the agreed premium is sufficient to achieve the ambition agreed at contract level. If it appears, for example, that as a result of structural adjustments to the return expectations, which may be upward or downward, the premium must be different, then it is up to decentralised parties at the collective agreement table to agree on this. That is also my response to yesterday's article by Mr Vandenbroucke in the NRC. Such an automatism is actually invented because it is simply agreed at the collective bargaining table between the social partners. It is also a work-conditional matter. It is part of the pay area and working conditions. It must also be resolved by the social partners. That is also the freedom of contract of the social partners on this point. This means that there is an automatic guarantee for trade unions and employers to periodically review this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u193	Let me take a look at this, because Mr Vandenbroucke says that the contract looks good, but he does highlight a few points, including this: in the event of severe economic setbacks, it should be possible to increase the premium by means of a joint agreement, on a decentralised basis, because it is necessary. We are now assuming a stable premium, but it may be that, if it is really two or three years very rough, it is necessary to adjust the premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u194	I understand the question, but I think you should distinguish between a major shock and a permanent adjustment of the return expectations. If the latter is the case, it is more likely to sit down at the table with each other about the question: what does this mean for my contribution and for my expected pension? When shocked it often goes back and forth and bounces it back, or not always. But if, after a few years, you see that return forecast isn't being fulfilled, you have to sit down at the table and see if it's true. Again, it can go up and down. It could go the other way. It may be that at some point you put down so much premium that the pension payment becomes too high. We can no longer imagine this at the moment, but that was the case, for example, in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u195	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the solidarity reserve. Are there rules and regulations? Yes. The regulatory framework will stipulate that the solidarity reserve should be balanced for all participants. In addition, funds are not allowed to adjust their rules of application and distribution arbitraryly. In other words, they're fixed in advance, ex ante. So you have to apply those rules and you can't change them in the meantime. Then you have the risk of one generation being favoured over another. They have to implement a firm policy. In addition, it will be laid down by law that no more than 10% of the premium and of the over-reward may be allocated to that solidarity reserve, with a maximum of 15% of the fund's assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u197	Those rules on the solidarity reserve are therefore included in the pension regulations. Does that therefore also apply to the rules on the allocation of returns on personal capital building?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u198	Yes, that is actually Mr Van Weyenberg's next question. According to the lifecycle, is there any investment? The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u199	My question is about the rules, because it is important that the chances of the highest possible pension and honesty do not appear to contradict each other. I think that is one of the good results of the thinking, namely that the personal outcome actually has a very solidarityary outcome when it comes to the impact on pensions. Is that also included in the pension regulations, so that something can not happen in a fund where a participant thinks "my interest is harmed here; this is not balanced'? Could he go to court, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u200	It is therefore important that these rules are laid down in the regulations and reviewed by De Nederlandsche Bank. Precisely that they are laid down in the regulations, therefore also means security for the members of the fund. That is also the reason why we can get rid of claims, interest and cover rates. You have worked out the contract in advance, ex ante, so that people can derive rights from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u201	Finally. This is the crux of the impact of that contract and also the certainty, or at least the clarity, that people can derive from it. My question concerns both the filling of that reserve and the allocation of your personal pension assets, as well as how that is invested and how the returns are allocated to your life stage. That's both hard on that contract?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u202	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u203	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u204	I just had a discussion with Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk. Following that, Mr Wassenberg also had a question about the interview with Vandenbroucke yesterday at the NRC. The question was whether you shouldn't have some kind of automatic adjustment mechanism. I would find that dangerous, because that works out very pro-cyclically, in practice. If things go badly, the premiums will be increased, so that the disposable income will just go down and you will do the economy more harm than good. So I don't think that's a good idea. I am thinking more of once in so many years at the collective bargaining table about whether the premium is still in line with expectations, ambitions and what we have agreed with each other. Mr Omtzig asked whether there would be a generational conflict, for example because of the interest rate risk. I believe that the great advantage of the new contract is that it removes the source of discussion between generations, namely the division of interest rate risk between young and old. That's actually solved in the new contract. As a result, older people suffer less from the decline in long-term interest rates that have occurred in recent years. Now the interest rate actually has two functions. This is a kind of discount rate for calculating the liabilities and thus for the distribution of the pot, but this is always confused with the expected return. We'll break it up in the new contract. So you could say that in the current contract older people are exposed to too much interest rate risk and that we solve that in the new contract. We are also doing this through the mechanisms I have just mentioned to Mrs Van Brenk, when I was talking about the ten years, investment policy and the solidarity reserve. And because the interest rate risk for pensioners can be specifically covered, they can benefit more quickly from good returns in the new contract and they can also be paid out more quickly. That's why the contract also performs well in the transfer account. In other words, I think that the new contract is really a great improvement when it comes to the generational conflict. Mr Wassenberg asked how participants could gain more control in investment policy, for example in order to invest greener. That has now been settled through the fund bodies, and that does not change with this contract. Then the block about a balanced transition. I will try to make the introduction very brief, so that Mr Van Kent does not get in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u205	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u206	Yes, Mr President, because I think that question may remain different. I also had a question that wasn't about the transition, so that's why I'm asking it here. I had also asked how that would become insightful. Should funds also make the choice of pension contracts transparent? Or is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u207	That comes with other things, I remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u208	Okay, I'll just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u209	Block six.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u210	I count it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u211	A lot of questions have been asked about the transition, and I understand that. It is a question of abolishing the average systems and generations that are affected by them, the most between 35 and 55. In most cases, there is a double transition, which we have passed on. Then we switch to a new way of pension building, but also to a contract with other distribution rules. Those contracts have been passed on and the starting point behind this transition is that it takes place in a balanced way. All participants, old, middle and young, are entitled to that. It has therefore been agreed that any disadvantages to the expected pension due to this abolition of the average and of this transition will be compensated adequately and cost-neutrally. So it's actually about the distribution of assets between the participants, about the age cohorts in the fund. The calculation of the CPB, but also of 13 pension funds, shows that in many cases, for the funds implementing a benefit scheme, there is no disadvantage but rather an advantage resulting from the abolition of the average premium. The negative effects of the abolition are often eliminated by the positive effects of other distribution rules in the new contract, other distribution rules. Therefore, the figures show that adequate compensation is also possible for this large group, for most participants, employees and pensioners in the Netherlands. There are differences, for example between green and grey funds. One population is younger than the other population. Each fund will have to make customization possible in order to shape that compensation. That's what we agreed on. That is why it is so difficult to take one example, because all these funds are different. At fund level, tailor-made work needs to be developed, a transition plan needs to be made, it needs to be made clear which participants have the advantage or disadvantage of abolishing the average. How does the compensation take place? Is it balanced across all participants? This is not a new starting point, because this is already in the current Pension Act: balanced representation of interests over the generations. The most important thing is that the board of the pension fund makes the participants transparent what is happening, who is disadvantaged by the abolition of the compensation, how it is compensated and how you see it in your pension scheme. That is why we have agreed on a standard transition path, which is legally anchored, so that participants can derive rights from it. The conversion of existing pensions to the new contract, the so-called entry into service, also has important benefits for implementation, for explainability, but also for the possibility of sharing with and against. It is therefore desirable that the new pension structure and existing pensions should be kept together as much as possible in a single fund. We have facilitated the transition path and entry to keep it together as much as possible. It also lays down the standard method of compensation. Again, it is very difficult to say exactly how it works for each individual employee or participant, because the departure situation differs from the funds. One fund is green, the other fund is grey. One fund has a coverage rate of 120%, the other has a coverage rate of 90%. All these variables differ from each other and can also give a different picture. Therefore, tailor-made work should be made possible at fund level during this balanced transition. This applies to benefit schemes. Let me now turn to the DC arrangements, the insurance schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u212	And then you'll answer the questions of MPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u213	Yes. Partly I'm already doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u214	Okay. Mrs Van Brenk, I think you have your fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u215	Third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u216	Your third, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u217	Yes, I'm keeping up, Mr. Chairman. I was wondering if the Minister was going into the point that we have made, namely that a great deal has now shifted from old to young and that this will become permanent upon entry. So that's a permanent expropriation. I want to know if the Minister has an eye for that and if he's going to compensate for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u218	In any case, there is no question of expropriation. Mr Van der Linde rightly said that. The money contained in pension funds remains in pension funds. Mrs Van Brenk uses the word 'expropriation', but no money is being drawn from the funds. No tax will be levied. So the money stays in the funds. It stays with the contestants. What is happening is that, in the transition path from the current system to the new system, it is made transparently clear how we are going to get from the current system to the new system and how we are going to compensate for the abolition of the average. That's what happens. There's no expropriation. What has happened over the last few years is that Mrs Van Brenk is right in saying that the decline in interest rates has shifted capital between the participants. On the other hand, the fall in interest rates has also increased the value of many capital titles. Think about bonds. Think about stock, too. They have been stimulated by the low-interest environment. As a result, the pension fund has grown considerably in ten years. I believe we had 900 billion in 2009. We're at 1,500 billion now. This also has to do with the fall in interest rates, which, for example, has made bonds and shares more valuable. Real estate has also increased in value due to the fall in interest rates, as it has become cheaper to finance real estate. So there are always two sides of the story. That makes it complicated, but that is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u219	If I had more time, if I had known, I would have started my introduction with: D66 at the helm, then old people don't get one nut. 'Cause I'm getting confirmation right now. It is a fact that a very large part has shifted from old to young, and that is made permanent. Then the Minister can say: that is not expropriation, because that pot stays there. Yeah, but there's a lot going to the kids about what was old. And this minister stands by and looks at it and loves it. I think it's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u220	That's just not reality. The reality is that, in the new financial review framework, we have agreed on the distribution of the pot among the participants, given the nominal certainty there is. If the interest rate falls, it will indeed have consequences for the amount of capital you have to reserve to make a pension payment in the future. But I have always said that there are two sides to the balance: on the one hand, those are the obligations, but on the other hand, those are the assets. And the assets have also changed as a result of the fall in interest rates in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u221	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u222	In the case of the premium schemes, the transition works differently, because no compensation can be given because of the transition to the new contract. Simply put: the premium schemes already have a premium contract, as it were. In order to achieve a balanced and cost-neutral transition, these arrangements are chosen for longer phasing-out over time. Employers can choose to continue to implement these premium schemes for current participants with a progressive premium, i.e. with a premium rising over time. New employees from 2025 onwards, the new system, I will say, must start in the new system and thus build up pension with the flat premium system. This means that there is no problem of compensation for the current members of the premium schemes, because they remain in the same scheme. Mr Van Kent and Mr Smeulders, but also Mr Omtzigt, I thought, asked for a response to the VCP proposal on compensation. I share with the VCP that it is important to settle the compensation properly. The agreement is also to do this adequately and in a generation-balanced manner. During the negotiations and during the preparation, we discussed this in detail. We have come to the solution contained in the main paper. In doing so, all the parties who have agreed have the confidence that compensation can be properly arranged. This requires tailor-made work per scheme, because there are simply differences between pension schemes and the membership composition; what I have just said: grey and green funds, for example. The VCP proposal is actually a kind of complex supplement scheme, in which billions are pumped around for twenty years. This leads to additional implementation costs for both public authorities and employers. And there are also greater financial risks for the government, because it has to pre-finance the costs, with which there is a significant risk that the money will not come back. And that's not in line with the pension agreement. It is also very complex and difficult to explain. How does it work exactly? In the proposal of the VCP, a charge of around 7.5% on the annual pension premium is levied by the government for 20 years, and this is then returned to the participants. Why? It's not a cost, it's a cost sharing between the participants in time, so an intertemporal slider. We finance them for, as it were, and through such a premium premium, that amount comes back. That was the VCP's proposal. In theory, this may seem like a good solution, but I also see great disadvantages and great risks in the impact. This also means that the joint parties have not chosen this solution. Instead, a number of variants have been on the table for the compensation of the DC scheme. One was the VCP proposal. Another was: do not abolish the pass-through system. Well, I didn't think that was a sensible idea, because then you're stuck with that....................................................................................................................................................................................................... There was also the variant on the table that we would just take more time, so instead of 10 years we would take 25 years to shape this compensation. Even then, the impact on the participants was too great. The unions didn't want that, the employers didn't want that, and I didn't want that either. So in the end, we opted for a respectful effect. This means that people who are in the system keep the right to build with a progressive rod, and that new employees or new entrants go to the flat stairs. There is much more to be said about this, but Mr Gijs van Dijk already has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u223	Well, I'd like to suggest you finish this part - if you don't mind, Mr. Gijs van Dijk. And then you'll have the opportunity, otherwise we'll interrupt after every sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u224	This means, indeed, that the participants in a DC scheme, a defined contribution scheme, which has respectful effect, will be maintained and that they will not have any disadvantage from this transition and therefore will not have to be compensated for. There is a risk that if people change jobs, they will find themselves in a situation where they enter a new regime and still have a gap. This risk applies in particular to older workers who have been in pension schemes for a long time. The advantage of this respectful effect that we have now is that for those who stay in the chair, nothing changes, but that people who switch, also know that this is happening and can take this into account in, for example, their negotiations on terms of employment or when they switch to a pension scheme. Moreover, for reasons of relativity: there are, of course, a lot of people who change jobs every year, and then, at the very core, little is looked at pension schemes, that is unfortunately our experience. But that's not an argument for this. Ultimately, this is simply the best way not to create the risk of deterioration. But that does mean that we must keep a finger on the wrist in the elaboration and in the future, to see if this is going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u225	This was the balanced transition part?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u226	Well, not quite yet. This was the DC scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u227	Oh. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also see all the problems surrounding all the proposals that have been on the table. However, as Mr Omtzigt said, there may well be a major labour market impact. Because you can get a hole in your pension building from 45 years of age because you are in such a scheme and would, for example, go to a new contract. How can we really keep that finger on the wrist, so that we won't see any really poignant cases in a few years' time? We can already see that this may be a problem. I see that there is no concrete solution now, not even from the social partners. However, I would very much like us here as a Chamber to keep our finger on the pulse, because it is very important that this group is not severely affected. Because I also know that in the end many people don't look at what it means for their pension; but yes, once you're retired, you see that a huge gap has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u229	Yeah, that's right. This may make it less attractive for middle-aged workers and older workers to change jobs. There are a number of relativistic comments to this. We also often see a wide variety of types of schemes in the premium schemes: very rich schemes with very high premium levels, but also very poor schemes with very low premium levels. It has therefore not been said in advance that a switch from a DC scheme to a new contract arrangement is worse for the participant. It could also be an improvement because he is moving to a better pension scheme. That's what makes it so complicated to solve the generic. So you will indeed have to keep your finger on the pulse on the switch and also work with information. If people switch over and re-enter a new pension scheme, they are part of the working population; the vast majority are covered by DB schemes and benefit schemes, they must be aware that the transition to another job has consequences for their pension. That is not the ideal solution for this whole problem, but we have kept all the solutions upside down, shivering out and watching them work out. This is the least bad one. We have, of course, also looked at a number of variants, for example for generation cohorts or just for new employees. This has ultimately been the choice, including from the social partners, which has the least distorting effects and has the least price-driven effects on premiums.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u230	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u231	That's it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u232	Easy, easy. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u233	I had asked to see if there was an alternative and to come back to that later. This means that if you are a 22-year-old in 2026, when this starts, there is really only one thing you have to do: resign as soon as possible and apply again. That's when you go from that low premium to that high premium. You'll have to stay in that job for 40 years. When we talk about disruption of labour market policy, that is a very intense one. At the beginning of his speech, the Minister said that there is no problem of compensation here. There is, of course, a problem of compensation for this group if they leave after 20 years. So that compensation problem isn't until 2046. That's gonna be in the system for a long time. Is it not possible to do a second check anyway and come back to it around September if there is a possibility to do so? We're about to see in ten years that we're having horribly disruptive work effects from a pension scheme that nobody really wants here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u234	This is carefully looked at from all sides and corners, upside down and inside out, with calculations. You can take that from me. I think reality is like another one. Someone who is young and in 2026, better put: in 2024, a scheme enters, and then stays in that scheme for a very long time... The number of movements in the labour market is very large when people are younger. The chance of people staying with the same employer for a very long time is very small for young people. As you get older, that's gonna increase your chances. The question here is again and again what the real labour market effects are and how realistic it is that people stay on for a very long time. I think that in reality this is a less serious problem than you would think. That's one. Two: the transition to a new flat-rate contribution scheme has the short-term effect of making the contribution slightly higher for the employer, but in the longer term that the premium becomes cheaper. Then it is not an obstacle to switching to such a new arrangement. We have not been able to find another solution to this. So I think it is really wise to keep a finger on the wrist and look at what is happening in practice, to have a better view of what we are actually talking about, even when it comes to the statistics in which the workers are sitting and the effect of moving from the current regime to another. But to be honest, I don't see any other solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u235	Mr. Overzigt? Yes, you can. Mr Omtzigt has a follow-up question. I can see it in you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u236	I would urge the government to look at this and to map out the labour market effects in one way or another. It concerns a very large group of employees. I do not want to have mapped that out after we have done the reform, but before the reform is here. Indeed, there are very serious obstacles in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u237	But I'd like to do that. If Mr Omtzigt is asking for a map of what it is really about, as I have just said, 'the finger on the wrist', then I would like to do so. That is also an important step in the process of getting a sense of what exactly we are talking about. In the current situation we also see a distinction between flat average premiums and progressive stabbings, which in practice have hardly any effect on the labour market. That is also the reality. We already have one. But I would like to make a commitment to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u238	Thank you. Then I hope to get that in September, October. Then we can get that involved next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u239	The last thing on this point, Mr President. Mr Bruins spoke about small employers, because it is indeed a higher level of contributions. Additional premiums are expected to rise to a maximum of 10% for around 25 years. That amounts to about two percentage points higher premium, but the premium eventually decreases, because you have it intertemporally. So in the longer term, it's slippery, I'll say. There are still a few questions about the transition, about the transition earlier, from Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van der Linde: should that really take until 2026 or are there funds that can be made faster? I would like to offer this space in principle if the implementation risks prove to be sufficiently manageable, because IT-technically the arrangements need to be adapted and people need to be properly included in the transition. So I would like to offer that space, but that must be done neatly, transparently and adequately controlled. If parties can do that, please. We have actually already discussed Mrs Van Brenn's question. Mr Bruins is curious to see how much pension growth has been wasted in the meantime because of the constant retention of guaranteed pensions. That question is also somewhat in line with Mrs Van Brenn's question. That answer is really very difficult to give, because then you should assume that everything would have remained the same. Of course, that has not been the reality in the last ten years. The premiums have been increased. The ambitions have changed. We've also modified the Witteveenkader. At least, the previous cabinet modified the Witteveenkader. Yes, Mr. Van Dijk, the previous cabinet has modified that, by the way, with the support of D66, but completely aside. So it's actually impossible to make the assumptions to make such a comparison. It's also a bit of a wrong comparison, because you assume that people don't change their behavior when reality changes around them. That makes this equation so difficult. Mrs Van Brenk also asked this in oral Question Time a few weeks ago, but then you would also have had other rules about shortening. For example, you might have cut more. That's why that equation is so hard to make. Mr Omtzigt asked early, and that is the last question in this block, how older people are involved in boarding. Participants, as well as pensioners, are represented in the accountability body in proportion to their share of the fund, and all stakeholders are represented in the stakeholder body in the most balanced way possible. Pensioners will thus have a say in the pension fund's acceptance decision through the accountability body or the stakeholder body. In addition, I regularly consult with the representatives of old and young people who are in a platform together, for example CNV-young people, FNV-young people and the elderly organisations. They all provide input for this whole discussion, and that is very valuable input for this whole discussion. The transition period, the ftk. Before I give the answers, very briefly something about the degrees of coverage. These have been very mobile over the last few months, and that of course has to do with the corona crisis. I also remember last year, because last June I was in this Chamber with the pension agreement. Then the average coverage rate was 105%. Then I went on vacation and I sat with my flip flops on the campsite when suddenly a trade war broke out between Trump and China. As a result, the coverage rates suddenly fell to 90%! We then had discussions throughout the autumn in the Chamber on the prevention of discounts, but at the end of the year the average level of cover returned to 99% by restoring stock exchanges and increasing interest rates. All in all, it is very mobile. Mrs. Van Brenk just asked me what I expect of the future. So that is very difficult to predict at the moment, because there is a lot of uncertainty in the financial markets, also as a result of the corona crisis. But at the moment, the levels of coverage for the average funds are not good. They have fallen significantly over the past period and are now just over 90%. Fortunately, they are no longer below 90%, but given the exceptional economic circumstances, the cabinet has made a commitment that next year a fund will not be reduced if it has a coverage level above 90%. I think that is also justified at this time. For this reason, it is important to know what the coverage rate is at 31 December of this year, because that is the moment of measurement. Quite frankly, there is still very little to be said about this at the moment. Mr Van der Linde asked when to clarify the temporary FTC rules for the transitional period. In the coming months, I will talk to the parties concerned about the path of integration during the transitional period. That is also stated in the main paper. The result will be in the bill, so that the ingrowth path is clear when the bill is discussed in your Chamber. As a result, Mr Bruins asked what the transitional regime would look like. How do we deal with the coverage rates and the calculation rate? During the transition the current ftk applies in principle. Remember that there are also funds that are not going to change to the new system. I mentioned a number of examples of this in the reply to the written questions. These are, for example, funds where no more new entrants will come or funds that still have a deposit of the company or sponsor. If they don't switch, they just keep falling under the FK. On top of that, I have agreed to look at a path of integration into the new system. I believe it is important for funds to be able to move in a balanced way, in a responsible way, but also for all participants, both young, middle and old. For this reason, the legislative proposal also sets out a path of integration from the current system to the new system. The aim of the growth path is to provide a perspective on the new system, to encourage the transition, but also to achieve a gradual recovery to a sound financial position. That is what I am going to discuss with all the parties in the run-up to the bill that will come to your Chamber. The survivor's pension. Mr Omtzitz and Mr Bruins' own-initiative paper is important for this. That note was presented two years ago and then I brought the Foundation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u240	On the previous point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u241	Oh, yeah. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but suddenly the Minister went from one block to the next very quickly. I have a question about the ingrowth path. I expect there will be some discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u242	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u243	We have now said that we take 90% as the lower limit for one year, but I still find it very difficult to predict what is needed in the coming years and what percentage you can actually go to the new system. Could the Minister indicate how he intends to develop that path of integration? Is that what he's gonna do to the social partners? Is there another kind of Dijsselbloem committee set up for this purpose? Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u244	Mr Gijs van Dijk makes suggestions for the answer. Was the suggestion about the committee or about the name? That's an interesting question. I will go into the details in consultation with the social partners and with the supervisors, because they are both relevant to the development path. By the way, the growth path can be done from undercover, i.e. from funds that now have a coverage rate of 90% or 95%, but it also needs to be balanced from cover. If a fund has a coverage rate of 110% or 120%, then of course it must also be balanced and responsible for all participants. I will continue to discuss this with social partners and supervisors. The final proposal lands in the law. I shall put it to your Chamber, because your Chamber must say yes or no to that. I was at the survivor's pension. Two years ago, there was an initiative paper from Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. I also asked the Labour Foundation for an opinion on this. I received that advice a few weeks ago and shared it with your Chamber. I welcome the fact that the social partners have managed to come up with jointly agreed solutions. This also provides a solution to the problems outlined by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Bruins. I intend to take them over. This basically means a more standardised, adequate and understandable survivor's pension. Risks are reduced. Mr Omtzig had another question on this subject, in particular on the WGA/IVA. This concerns people who become disabled and who no longer have an employer. What happens if you no longer have an employer and are no longer a member of a pension scheme? Do you still fall between ship and ship? This point needs to be examined in greater detail. I'll take that into effect. I would also like to take this into account in the drafting of the bill. So I'm gonna get on with it and I'm gonna be able to tell you about it later. Mr Bruins asked what I would do with the opinion of the Labour Foundation. I am prepared to take the advice and therefore work it out further with the social partners, the Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies. Particular attention will be paid to the best way of shaping the transition to the new survivor's pension scheme. That's still pretty complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u245	I'm glad it's being taken. I hope that a solution will be found. I would like the solution that is agreed unanimously by the social partners that the pension is continued free of premium if someone has a WGA or IVA benefit and even a 35min benefit. I'm just gonna say it technically, so at least it's in the Acts. The second hole I notice is the gap for people who have a disease and who decide to become a self-employed person. Of this, Mr Bruins and I said in the own-initiative paper: we would like to have a cancellation ban so that you can keep your existing survivors' cover, with a pension fund or no matter how. Because if they have to take out insurance somewhere else and the insurer can refuse it, you get risk selection at the gate. Then that person can't choose to become a zzp'er after all. Can that be involved in this, too? I understand that it cannot be explained immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u246	Yes. If you don't mind, I'll take both elements with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u247	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u248	The white spots. That always sounds a bit dirty, but that's about sectors, companies where no... You never thought about that, but you did now; you're welcome, Mr. Smeulders. From now on, you have a strange picture in your head when you bring this up, and that's very good. Most employees, of course, simply build up pensions in the Netherlands. There is also a group that falls between shore and ship. So that's what we call "the white stain." An attack plan has been drawn up by the Labour Foundation with 22 action points which should lead to a reduction in the proportion of people who do not build up a pension. One important point is that workers working in the temporary employment sector still have a waiting period of 26 weeks, based on an exception in the Pension Act. I intend to remove this exception for the temporary agency sector and align the period with the regular one. In the broadcasting sector, as in other sectors, a legal waiting period of up to eight weeks is possible. Mr Gijs van Dijk had this in and wants a step further, which I appreciate because you should always try. He asked: is the Minister prepared to abolish the waiting period as a whole? We now have a two-month generic waiting period for everyone and the exception up to 26 weeks for the broadcasting sector. The deletion of the exception leaves two months. To be honest, I find it unwise to delete the generic waiting period in its entirety. I fully agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders that the broadcasting sector should start to build up a pension earlier. But I'm afraid if you shorten the generic waiting period, you'll get a lot of administrative burdens and a lot of small pensions that are more expensive in cost than what you build up. When people start to retire immediately, which is the case in many examples... People simply become employees, and within a month or six weeks, pension is paid, people are enrolled as participants in the pension fund and are doing well. If you delete it completely, you get a lot of administrative burdens and a lot of small pensions. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u249	The actual situation is that for many sectors there is no waiting period, regardless of the legal waiting period of two months. It is legally guaranteed, but the actual situation is: there is no waiting period, except for the broadcasting sector. On the road to such a new pension system that is simpler, simpler and easier to administer, I hope to take that as a starting point, it might be a good starting point for us to say that in six years' time we are going to set the generic legal waiting period to zero, because we think it is important for everyone to start building immediately from day one. You're young and you need to start building right away. In fact, many sectors do so and there is no administrative problem. So it really only applies to the broadcasting sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u250	Yes, but also in the broadcasting sector, there are a lot of small contracts: temporary contracts, students and students who work somewhere for a while and then not. I find it a little different to register it continuously than when, for example, someone is working on a contract for six months. I agree you'll have to build a pension. But if you put all these small contracts into compulsory retirement, then I'm afraid you're putting the horse behind the cart and you're ultimately more expensive for the participant than it is for the profit in terms of retirement. I really think we should take that into account. Once again, I am very much in favour of deleting the exception for the broadcasting sector. 'Cause if you work anywhere for more than two months, I think you should build a pension. I agree. In many sectors, things are automatically going well, but even further down, I would find it an unwise step because of administrative burdens, feasibility and costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u251	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u252	Moreover, I am still curious to see what social partners in the broadcasting sector come up with. I believe that these negotiations are still ongoing and there are still different modalities on the table. Mr Smeulders and also Mr Bruins asked what steps I could take in my role to contribute to reducing that white spot towards the future. There are 22 plans from the Labour Foundation. I said in my letter that I see sufficient directions to reduce the white stain substantially in the coming years. I'll send a comprehensive response to your room after the summer. Once again, I am going to move faster to get the waiting time out of the law in the broadcasting sector. Then the block of sustainable employability: working healthyly towards retirement. We had invested a lot of money in this, and that has even increased in the last negotiations, namely EUR 1 billion for the period 2021-2025 for sustainable employability and financial bottlenecks in the early retirement of heavy-duty professions. 250 million is available for sustainable employability, such as healthy, safe and vital working. The remaining money has been made available for the bottlenecks in the event of an earlier exit. Employers will no longer be subject to the tax from 2021 on a temporary basis, for a period of five years, on the basis of the RVU tax, which is referred to as a threshold exemption of €21,200. That is the net AOW. This is therefore no longer subject to additional taxation. Employees can bring up part of their pension. In a combination of what employers pay and the workers bring forward, employees can exit three years earlier than the AOW date. Mr Stoffer asked whether structural money would be made available for the heavy professions. As you know, we have chosen this variant for the period 2021-2025. At the same time, the trade unions' desire is being examined in particular over the 45 years of service. That investigation is currently under way. The trade unions prefer to have this arrangement as a structural arrangement. I can't anticipate that because that investigation is still ongoing. So it comes back when the research results are available. Bright is, financially speaking, that we made this deal until 2025. If you want to do this longer, there are financial consequences that must be covered somewhere. I think it would be wise to await that research on the 45 years of service, because that could be a structural variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u253	A long time ago we received a petition here at the Square of a large group of painters, who came to argue for a heavy occupation scheme with an opportunity to quit work earlier. I've always kept that in mind. The question I have for this minister is what he has to offer the 60-year-old painter with regard to early retirement. It's just been done, the Labour Party did it just like it's all arranged, like it's done, and as if people could stop working three years earlier, but what do you have to offer that 60-year-old painter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u254	Mr Van Kent is doing it again. We have taken a big step, where we all, employers, employees and the government, are contributing to making this possible for people with a heavy occupation in the coming years. At the same time, the investigation is ongoing into the 45 years of service that Mr Stoffer asked for. I think the big profit is that we are now going to establish at a decentralised level, that employers and employees are going to decide on a decentralised basis, which is a heavy occupation. There is therefore an opening in this ongoing discussion. Because since I got here in the Chamber in 2010, that discussion has been about what is a tough profession. I understand that Mr Van Kent wants to put the spotlight on everything that has not yet been settled, but there has been a major step forward for this group, for the people who may have been attacked by the accelerated increase in the age of AOW. They're getting the instruments now. If they have a hard job and want to pay the employer along with them, it is possible. For the longer period, the investigation of those 45 years of service will come first, and that political discussion will certainly return to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u255	The 60-year-old painter will have to work at least until 67 and will then be confronted with a situation in which, if an early retirement is to be made possible, an RVU fine will have to be paid, because it will only be temporarily released. So once again, my question to the Minister. It was a very long answer. The picture is just being sketched as if something had been arranged for people with a heavy occupation. That's temporary, but that doesn't apply to the 60-year-old painter. So again the question to this minister: what has been agreed for that 60-year-old painter, except for an investigation and that a next cabinet may look at it again? What exactly was agreed for that 60-year-old painter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u256	I predict that before the end of the period 2021-2025 there has been an extensive debate in the Chamber, including on the 45 years of service and what should take place after 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u257	Then nothing has been agreed. There's no deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u258	Then I shall go to Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a follow-up to this. In my opinion, this study of the 45 years of service was carried out at the explicit request of the trade unions, who were very curious about it and who wanted it. I also regret that the RVU fine is not structurally off the table, because it is a bit of a weird thing. Can the Minister confirm that we are going to wait for that investigation first and that after that there is simply an option to get that fine off the table structurally if it turns out that a solution of 45 years of service is not feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u260	In the end, as a Chamber itself, you are talking about what it sees as a structural solution. I am only saying quite honestly that in the agreement we have now reached, we agreed to opt for this variant for the period up to 2025. In addition, it is very clear that employers, employees, and the government are co-paying, and that we are now looking for a more structural solution. But that structural solution does cost money. It's got consequences. In an ageing world, too, it has consequences for labour supply, for example. All these elements must be taken into account as a Chamber when it comes back. But for this pension agreement of course it has been worked out nicely. The arrangement has been sent to your room. I hope we can deal with them as soon as possible. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u261	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u262	This was actually the next point. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked if I could speed up the work on the regulation. Yeah, I'm sure I'd like to try. However, it is important that a good analysis and a good plan are made because it is really a tough problem, which we must take seriously in the coming period. It also calls for a certain time of preparation by social partners in some sectors to shape it well, including in the combination with sustainable employability and these bottlenecks. I'll see what I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u263	A brief question, Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u264	I looked at last year's documents on the agreement in principle. The agreement was made that there would be a temporary RVU scheme as of 1 January 2021, together with 200 million per year from 1 January. Only now, a year later, it says that this is only from 1 June. That while there are sectors, such as the police and the meat sector, which already have an arrangement. They are very keen to use that budget. The question to the Minister is: hurry up and settle it from 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u265	I'm gonna do my best to do that, but everything's a little slow. You are now returning from recess to have this debate. That is also because the negotiations have lasted longer than previously thought. That is why there is some delay in this. I am going to do my best, but I fully understand what Mr Gijs van Dijk is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u266	Your last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u267	Thank you for that. Even if the Minister is going to make haste and if it is his ambition to achieve it by 1 January, I would like to hear from him that the sectors can count on them simply to put that money into use, with retroactive effect if necessary. 'Cause we're doing it for the people. And it's the people who are in trouble right now who don't have time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u268	So that's one of the variants I'm considering and I'm thinking about. You must have a proper arrangement and also have an answer to the question of the General Court on the basis of which we have paid out money. Otherwise, I'm gonna get a tap on my finger from your room, too. That must be right and proper. This could be a variant to meet that living desire. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u269	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u270	Mr Gijs van Dijk had another question on this point, namely whether the subsidy rate for early retirement could be raised. We are now assuming 25%, as you could read in the letter of 6 July. Next week, I will consult the draft grant scheme, which will make it public. I am going to talk to social partners or get rid of sectors with this percentage. I'd like to wait and take that with me. Remember that the higher the subsidy rate, the fewer employees there can be helped. Of course, it's still a regular pot of money, I'll say. Well, you'd have to weigh in on that. But I am taking this point into account in my discussions with the partners. Mr Gijs van Dijk also asked: can the subsidy scheme also provide a little more support for workers with a small pension? The grant is intended for the employer, so that he or she can help people who need it to leave early. This is not intended to support the employee's income. We've agreed on a generic arrangement. It deals with financial bottlenecks for employers and for SME employers. We have just opted for an RVU benefit that is equal to the net AOW, in order to equalize it for everyone. Mr. Chairman. Two more blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u271	I beg your pardon? Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u272	Two more blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u273	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u274	The aov zzp. This is part of the pension agreement. Mr Stoffer asked three questions. He first asked me if I would like to respond to the execution tests of the Tax Administration and the UWV. He also asked about the implementation of his motion with Mrs Tielen on the future of work, within the framework of the Borstlap Committee. Finally, he asked about the opt-out. About the feasibility and the Tax Administration and the UWV: I have sent the execution keys to you. They're public. There are a few points in it, in particular about the elements of choice and the information that can be given to the Tax Administration from private insurers. There's a lot of complexity in these arrangements. I have agreed that in the near future I will be working with the UWV and the Tax Administration on how the proposal of the Labour Foundation can be prepared in an executable, affordable way on this point, and a motion has also been adopted in this Chamber. It has become a complex arrangement. The Staoffer/Tielen motion calls for consideration to be given to the disadvantages of only an employee's pension compared with a scheme for all workers. Of course, I am going to carry out this motion, but I am going to include it in the cabinet response to the report of the Borstlap Committee, which comes to the Chamber after the summer. But I would like to add that I also attach great importance to the agreements I made with the social partners and the Labour Foundation in the context of the pension agreement, because I also asked for this to be worked out. That's what worked. An appointment is also a deal, as far as I'm concerned. Then the opt-out. In its advice of early March, the foundation chooses that self-employed persons have the option to use private insurance as an alternative. However, the foundation indicates that equity cannot be seen as an alternative arrangement. Of course, that has to do with the fact that it is a risk for a very long period of time when you become disabled and that you really have to have a lot of capacity to have cover for that. But I'm going to work on this in the elaboration, which also includes the opt-out. This is part of the agreement made by the foundation. So I'm taking it with me in the elaboration of the aov forzzp'ers. Other. Mr Van der Linde and, in my view, Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about the concept of a partner: do the parties in the field think the ideas on standardising the concept of a partner are feasible? The parties in the field have previously made their own proposal, with minimum conditions. As far as I am concerned, that did not satisfy your Chamber's wish for greater uniformity. Mr Van der Linde put forward an interesting case in the first term about living together for more than six months during the study: do you have to share your pension? The partner's pension is, of course, intended to take care of a partner in case of death. It is doubtful whether Mr Van der Linde's case is satisfactory. I would like to discuss a number of examples with the pension sector if they could be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u275	Maybe just to clarify. In that study case it doesn't matter that much; then it's about small jobs in the hospitality business and then it's all going to go away. But the need on the housing market is so great in the Netherlands that many people who have a job for the first time, out of absolute necessity, live together in a kind of room situation. Those are really different situations and that is about hundreds of thousands of Dutch people. Those hundreds of thousands of Dutch people lead along with a lot of other groups, such as women who are in the women's shelter, so you can go to the Tax Administration to ask what fun things have happened there in the past with partners who have been assigned to each other, to very strange situations of partner allocation when it is simply said that you should be registered at the same address. Landlady's and you name it all. So an urgent request: we understand why that situation was taken away, but make sure you're not accidentally partnering each other when you share a house with someone else. You're gonna be a tax partner for the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u276	Tax partner, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u277	Well, I hope to spare you. So perhaps in a few months' time you can come up with a proposal to deal with this particular situation. It's kind of hard to define love and stuff in a law, but it would be nice if that was in here somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u278	That reminds me of a very bad joke by Youp van 't Heek from 1989.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u279	Well, tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u280	Is your wife attractive? Well, fiscally, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u281	Oh, oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u282	That was Youp van het Heek in 1989. I didn't make it up myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u283	You can't do that anymore, these kind of jokes. Don't you think, Mr. Van Weyenberg? Thirty years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u284	Thirty years later, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u285	I couldn't laugh about it. Neither do you, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u286	Do you know why I remember so well? I was 12 years old. It was the very first New Year's conference, and I remembered it. Bad, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u287	Very bad. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u288	Mr. De Jong, I quoted a Dutch cabaret from thirty years ago. I will come back to this, also in the elaboration of this. I'm sure there'll be more examples like this. This kind of modern development must also be incorporated into the laws and regulations. Then there are Mr Van der Linde's questions on appeal and appeal. Following on from that, Mr Omtzigt's question on the individual right of objection in Article 83. Mrs Van Brenn also asked for this. Mr Van der Linde asked: can the Minister confirm that people can simply object if they do not agree with the individual effects of the transition? Yes, I can. The introduction of collective powers for the accountability body or the stakeholder body does not mean that individual possibilities for a judicial review, for example on the basis of the ECHR, will lapse. It is therefore always possible for an individual to go to court if he does not agree with the way in which his accumulated pension is handled. Then why is the individual right of objection abolished? At least that suggestion is being woken up. Indeed, the individual right of objection is not abolished and continues to exist for the regular collective value transfers that are separate from the transition to the new pension system. But specifically for this transition there is a collective participation with a strengthened role for the participation bodies, i.e. the accountability body and the stakeholder body. This is linked to the objective of both the Cabinet and the Economic and Social Council to keep existing pensions and new pensions together as far as possible. That's been leading the way. In order to comply with that objective, it has been chosen to grant, instead of an individual right of objection, enhanced collective powers to the accountability body or to the stakeholder body.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u289	I understand that, but we'll see what we think about the legislation. This is going very fast. One point about one group in those sections. That's the group of the elderly. Suppose a majority of the elderly are opposed to entry because their rights will be affected or their pension will become volatile. Do they have any right to stop it? Or can they be totally over-voted because they have a minority position in the stakeholder body or body. The accountability body?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u290	I really need to work that out. We need to work out how we're going to shape this. That's what we do in the law. As you rightly say, that's where it comes back. The increased collective participation of the participation bodies, in which pensioners are represented, depends again on the composition of the fund. In a fund with many inactive people and with proportional representation, pensioners have a greater representation in the accountability body or stakeholder body than in a fund with a large number of active employees. That really needs to be further worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u291	Well, in itself, it can be worked out quite clearly. A majority of older people always have a minority in the stakeholder body or body. the accounting body, unless there are no more active persons. Those active still have a number of seats. I'm just trying to figure out the position of the elderly whose current pension is being changed with all kinds of new rules when entering. What possibilities do they have specifically in this respect to be represented in an additional way? Because this is a very important decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u292	For the elderly, nothing applies but to all other members of the pension fund. For all participants, whether it is the younger or the middle age, now that the average system is being abolished, or the elderly, the transition path must be calculated what the conversion of the claim and the property means, who has a disadvantage and how it is compensated, and whether it is balanced in its totality. This applies to all participants who are connected. That collective objection is settled in proportion to the reflection of the fund. But it does depend on the fund. I can't make that more specific than this general line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u293	Would you like to enter into consultation with the elderly organisations and, in September, reconnect to the Chamber what opportunities you see for involving the elderly organisations in this particular issue? Can you, then, whether or not there is agreement, come up with proposals on the extent to which they are involved in this particular approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u294	We need to do that anyway, because we need to work this out properly in the legislation. But for the sake of clarity, pensioners are in the accountability body and in the stakeholder body. In doing so, they have a role to play in this strengthened collective right of participation that we are going to assert for the transition. So it is not that that is different than for other participants. But we need to work this out properly, because there should be no conflict between generations here either. Mr Omtzig does not want that, and I do not want that either. We shall come back to this in more detail. Moreover, I have spoken to many elderly organisations in the last period, who think differently about this. The elderly organisations do not have one opinion either, because the fact that you can switch to a new pension scheme also means that this indexation is getting closer. Of course, that's an advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u295	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u296	It is not a question of these elderly organisations having different opinions about entering. It's possible. That makes perfect sense. It would be weird if they were all thinking the same thing, and that's not necessary at all. The question is whether you can discuss with the joint elderly organisations what is a reasonable form of participation, and whether you can return to us in September or October what the options are. This is a rather crucial point when it comes to boarding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u297	Yes, but I want to consult with all the organisations, including the social partners, the trade unions and the employers, to which some of the older people belong. That's why I'm saying it should be done neatly. If you're gonna pull out one group, you're gonna trigger the suggestion that one group has a disadvantage, but that's just not true. It must all be balanced. All participants must be taken into account in this balanced balance of interests between pensioners, workers and young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u298	Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u299	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u300	In the process, we're gonna do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u301	Then I hope in September...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u302	That's what the Minister promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u303	... to receive a letter on the consultation with older people's organisations, trade unions and perhaps youth organisations on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u304	Mr. Ommzigt, that's a promise. Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u305	I had also asked that question about the elderly organisations. I'm just trying to make a bridge right now. We should not have 3 million people objecting individually to a general transition scheme. It's gonna be unworkable. It would be even more frustrating if 3 million people received exactly the same rejection letter. Then we're not credible with each other. Maybe the Minister could just make that bridge in order to give substance to what he means by "reinforced advisory rights"? That probably gives the CDA a little more comfort and then we know where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u306	Do you mind if I go back to that in more detail in the second term? Then I'll take the details of what's being thought of and how it's being designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u307	Yeah, that's good. Mr Van der Linde is all making gestures, but in the second term the Minister will return to this. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u308	A number of questions have been asked by Mr Bruins, but also by Mr Stoffer, Mr Van der Linde and Mr Omtzigt, about communication and explanation. It's obviously incredibly complicated matter. How do you explain that in a simple way? It is indeed important that every participant or pensioner knows how his or her pension can develop and that he or she can get a clear and real picture of what it is going to look like. For example, we have made that navigation metaphor with the expected benefit if it is disappointing and if it is not easy to offer more handles to people to prepare for and to respond to it. The fact that pension is uncertain is already true, and it will continue to be. This is true in the current system, but it is also true in the new system. That is why we have already included such a navigation metaphor with three scenarios on mypensionoverzicht.nl to show that there is also uncertainty in the current system. It is very important, however, that I agree with Mr Stoffer that people can follow it and know what is happening. They need to be able to track what changes and why. Of course, it is primarily up to the social partners and pension practitioners to provide information to their members and beneficiaries who are members of the fund, but as a government, of course, we also have a responsibility. I believe that we ourselves should also have information on these important changes and that we should also explain them. That's what we do with all parties. Think of the Pension Federation, the Association of Insurance Companies and all parties that are members of mypensionoverzicht.nl. For example, an animated video has already been made. It can be seen on the website of my ministry. In addition, we try to provide better information and explanation through the appropriate channels. Mr Omtzigt specifically asked me to make a brief explanation of a few pages that can be understood by everyone. I understand the concern very well, because I see that it is complicated matter. The question is what level of detail people want to be informed about exactly how the system works. I'm going to invent an information campaign with the parties involved. In that I also take the question of how to explain it smaller and more accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u309	Do you have a question about that, Mr. Van der Linde?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u310	On the previous point. Look, education is beautiful. We have great initiatives like Pension TV and movies and so on, but what I was concerned about is this. Are we going to do something about the Financial Supervision Act to allow pension funds to just give participants advice? Why is it wise or not to include that 10%?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u311	Yeah, that question was still here. I think it is important, just like Mr Van der Linde, that people should know what they are doing, that they should ask for information and advice and that this should be done. This can only be done by a person with a licence from the AFM, because of the Wft, the Financial Supervision Act. Mr Van der Linde knows that. But in the elaboration of the pension agreement, also for the AFM itself, the AFM has asked for a strengthening or concreteisation of the duty of care: how funds accompany individual participants in their choice. There are several choices possible. For example, you can opt for such a high-low pension. Soon you'll be able to choose such a sum at once. I'd like to consult with pension administrators about what's wise about this. I'll also see if the Wft is a restriction. That is a commitment towards Mr Van der Linde. Mr Omtzig asked about the costs. I agree that costs should be as low as possible. That is also a discussion we had a while ago, for example on the Australian example. We have had research conducted into the premium scheme and whether there are hidden costs in it. Why do I think the new system is really different from those foreign examples? The new system does not change the market organization and the obligation. Participants therefore do not have the choice to choose their own pension fund. That's where it went wrong in the other countries. That doesn't happen here, so I don't see that risk here. Apart from that, it remains important to continue monitoring these costs, to keep the finger on the wrist and to include the lessons we have learned from the research that we have done at Mr Omtzigt's request in the development of the pension system, so that those costs do indeed remain low and the return is due to the participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u312	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u313	Two more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u314	Then I'd take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u315	Mr Smeulders asked about the pension compass. I have read Mr Vandenbroucke's research very well. That is a valuable addition to the pension debate. I also agree with his basic thinking, with clear objectives and accountability. I do not intend to start a separate product, but I am willing to inform the Chamber periodically about the progress of the further elaboration of the pension agreement and whether the objectives we have set out to achieve will also be achieved, in order to implement such a pension compass as Mr Smeulders suggested. Finally, Mr Smeulders and Mr Van der Linde asked about the pension label of VCP Young Professionals. I think that label is an interesting idea. The proposed label only looks at the ambition of your pension, namely to what extent you can build 80% after 42 years. I think that's a limited interpretation of such a label. But I'd like to consult with VCP Young Professionals to see if we can take this one step further. Mr Van der Linde asked that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u316	These were all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u317	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u318	Good. I shall go first to Mr Omtzigt for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u319	It's three short questions. I would like to receive these two or three A4 explanations on the new pension system. This also makes the discussion in the autumn on how the pension system looks much clearer for the rest of the Netherlands. You can agree or not, but we'll know what we're talking about. Now it is for the whole of the Netherlands, except for the specialists who are working here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u320	That was question one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u321	Question two is: can we have all the European legal opinions that have been issued? That was also referred to in those 200 questions. Several of them have been released. I'd like to see them. That will be a crucial point. The third is: can we see a transfer from 1945 onwards, with the returns that have been achieved, of how the system would have operated? So how high would the premium have been? How strongly would the benefit have fluctuated between generations? That gives us an idea: if we had that system, what would have happened in 2001, when it went wrong all at once, in 2008 and 2010? So those three things, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u322	Mr. Chairman. Number one. I'm going to think about the three A4's explanation in the context of pension communication and its explainability. How are we going to make that clear to the general public? I think we can leave out all kinds of technical details, but we can simply make it clear what this new system means for someone's paycheck. What do you see in the bounty you're putting in and the return you've made and that's reserved for you as a person? Well, I'd like to work that out in that communication campaign. I'm still in the middle of it or that's in September, but we're working on this fast. So that's one. I believe that I have shared the legal opinions with your Chamber, including the document by Mr Lutjens to which reference is made. Of course, earlier opinions have been drawn up by the Council of State on the abolition of the average, in 2015, I think I remember, by heart. They're public, too. In addition, there is simply official work, in the sense that people from my ministry have looked at the legal frameworks. What's available is publicly available. Attorneys are always able to discuss this, I know, even though I am not a lawyer myself, but an economist. Everything is in the main note, Chapter 8 or 9, I think I remember, plus all the sources that have been used for this and the separate report by Professor Lutjens, which provides the basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u323	And then there's the third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u324	The third question concerns a discussion that we have had before. Mr Bruins also had a question about this. Back to 1945 is impossible to do. Then you have to start making assumptions about what happened. At that time, a lot of changes have been made. We've gone from final wage to middle wage. We've modified the Witteveenkader. The premium was very high when Mrs Van Brenk started in health care, as she said in her first term. But this has also been very low, in the nineties, when there were big bonus holidays. If you're gonna reason back, you're gonna have to make all kinds of assumptions. The question is whether that is realistic, because you assume that people don't change their behavior when there is a shock, as happened in the 1990s, when the coverage rates were at 200% and employers and trade unions said, "Take that premium down a little bit." You can't make a reconstruction like that. Instead, we have calculated thousands of scenarios or three scenario sets to different age cohorts, birth cohorts, to see how the current system is working out compared to the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u325	I'd almost respond to something the minister just said, where he's partly twisting the truth a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u326	If Mrs Van Brenk says I'm lying, she should also table a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u327	It is said here that both employers and employees reduced the premium, but that was only because the government threatened to rob things off. It wasn't like they just did that, that they thought, "Let's take a bounty-holiday for fun." That was just because this government...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u328	This government?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u329	The government then. You weren't there at the time, neither was I.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u330	I know that there was a discussion in the Chamber in the 1990s about a pension levy, certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u331	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u332	But I also found that there were bounty holidays. I'm not saying what caused it. All I'm saying is that employers and employees both benefited from lower premiums in the 1990s, because there were large surpluses in pension funds. That's what happened in the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u333	Sure, and that was because the government was threatening to tax pensions. I had also expressed my concerns about the costs. There are a lot of people who eat with us from retirement, as we call it. The question is whether this new system will be cheaper in terms of cost. Can we at least write that down, to say that that's a point of profit? Is it cheaper, are the costs lower? Or did we miss a chance here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u334	I find that difficult to answer, I say honestly. The advantage of the current system is that it is possible to invest collectively, for many participants at the same time. At relatively low costs, this large pension fund is managed. This does not change in the new system; it remains the same. I think the contract will be more transparent. I also think that this is a reason or reason to really improve another point that Mrs Van Brenk has mentioned more often, namely the quality of pension administrations, when moving to a new system. Of course, it remains assets invested in financial markets, in shares and bonds and real estate, for which a management fee is paid. In my view, it is important to maintain the current system, because it allows you to invest at low cost for many participants at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u335	Back to the last heading: communication. That's what I wanted to stick to an earlier topic: the white spots. The Minister spoke in particular about the broadcasting sector, but I think there are also a lot of small employers who are in good faith and simply do not know that they are obliged to join a pension fund in their sector. Would the Minister in the attack plan he comes with in the summer pay particular attention to the communication towards those small employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u336	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u337	A brief question, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had one more question open. I asked in my contribution why employers cannot grant individual benefits higher than the threshold exemption RVU. This is now in the form of a grant, but I wonder why this is not made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u339	Because we have also agreed with social partners that the RVU levy will expire to an amount of €21,200. That is the net AOW. She's gonna stay up there. This has also been done on the basis of the idea that we should not encourage people to leave early. This really is about a regulation for the heavy-duty professions, to which employers pay a little bit and the employees pay a little bit, and the government a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u340	Mr Van der Linde. Also a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u341	There's just one question left. In line with shop law, I had asked whether it was right that only pension insurers should be able to offer a flat-rate benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u342	I will come back to that in second term. I'm not ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u343	Okay. Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. Let me take a look at you guys. First a dinner break and then the second term? I belong here. We'll go straight ahead. That's a lot of enthusiasm. Then we'll just go to the second term. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u344	Mr. Chairman. At a killer rate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the examination of the proposals for a new pension system until after 17 March 2021 so that the electorate can judge them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-521]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u345	Time goes on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u346	You're absolutely right about that. As soon as it's different, time will be stopped. So we're just gonna count this. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u347	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure participation by not putting Article 83 of the Pension Act into effect during the transition to a new system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the transition to a new system is accompanied by a fairly large regulatory space;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that older people's associations have a say and a formal role during the transition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the fall in risk-free interest rates towards zero has led to a huge redistribution from old to young;]] [[Whereas an interest rate of 2% would reverse about half of the above-mentioned redistribution;]] [[calls on the Government to establish the "transition rate" on the forward rate structure with a minimum of 2%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-522]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-523]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-524]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u348	And the last one, Mr. Chairman. The minister would be disappointed if he wasn't there. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to maintain the current pension system with a fixed calculation rate of at least 2%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-525]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many open ends, many questions, many things that are not settled, but where it is done as if it is arranged. There will be a lot of debate on this in the coming period. Three motions from my side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to the Court to amend the accounting rules of pension funds for this calendar year in order to exclude pension reductions and allow indexing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-526]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u350	This motion is similar to Mrs Van Brenk's, but it's a little more specific. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the individual right of objection is likely to be deleted;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the individual right of objection in full,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the RVU tax is "the early retirement penalty', which makes it impossible for older workers to stop working earlier;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the RVU tax in its entirety and in a structural manner without further conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-527]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-528]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u351	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u352	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u353	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD, I would like to join in complimenting all those people who have made it possible for the pension agreement to be drawn up. This applies to the economists and all figure artists, for which I can only take my hat off as a simple investment economist. But it also applies to many drivers who have had to deal with critical supporters and who have stuck their necks out for this. Those people have taken their responsibilities, and that is greatly appreciated. It is now up to us to clarify all those people who are involved. That means quickly making the sums, quickly getting started, and rolling out the whole chord as soon as possible. And if we can also achieve an indexing, very much, but it must all be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u354	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linde. Mr Gijs van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many people are struggling to reach retirement age in good health;]] [[noting that the RVU fine will be suspended as of 1 January 2021, but that the subsidy for earlier cessation of work will not be available until 1 June 2021;]] [[Whereas police officers, construction workers and workers in the meat want to stop working earlier and have already agreed to do so;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine the extent to which sectors can benefit from the heavy-duty profession subsidy scheme as of 1 January 2021;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with the social partners on the level of the subsidy rate with a view to removing obstacles to early retirement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many flex workers, especially young people, have low or no pension;]] [[Whereas the new pension contract provides for a flat contribution to be paid and it is important to start saving for retirement at a young age;]] [[Whereas the quality of pension schemes can also be improved;]] [[calls on the government to consult with social partners to come forward with proposals in the run-up to the new pension contract to further reduce the waiting time for all pensions and improve the quality of the pension scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-529]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-530]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u356	I just want to say a few words, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u357	Oh, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u358	Mr. Chairman. This was again an important debate in many debates on pensions and healthy retirement. As I said, the PvdA supports the pension agreement. We also welcome the grassroots groups of the large trade unions. However, I would like to warn you that we are going to follow all the legislation very critically, so that it meets the requirements that we have imposed on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u359	A brief question, Mr De Jong. About the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u360	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party states here that it supports the pension agreement, while there is a very large group that simply misses retirement. There's no compensation for that. We do not know about the Solidarity Fund, we do not know about the transition towards generations, nothing is happening to restore the confidence of young people, and yet you are saying yes already. How can you take yourself seriously as a pension party if so many people are disadvantaged?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u361	I think Mr De Jong stopped listening after the motions, because after my two motions I said that the Labour Party has always said that the pension agreement is important and that as an opposition party we are prepared to stick our necks out if the unions agree. The unions are in agreement. I agree with Mr De Jong that there are still a lot of questions for interpretation. I have asked a great many questions about this in my contribution. That is why I also said that the Chamber can count on a Labour Party which will be very critical of this and that I will work with you and with Mr Van Kent to ensure that no people are going to fall between shore and ship, that young flex workers are going to build up their pensions and that there is not a generation that is being hit hard. But it is clear to me that we must move from this system to something else. If you hear all the experts in the country correctly... We have heard a lot of experts lately say: well, that new pension contract seems really better. Why? You don't have to save a lot of buffers anymore and you can most likely start indexing earlier. So that's good. But beware, the next six years will be crucial. I agree with Mr De Jong: there are a lot of questions that I also have. You can then count on a Labour Party which will be very critical of this, for the sake of all those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u362	For the sake of order of the debate, this is a second deadline. We've been debating for hours. If there are any questions, they should relate in particular to the motions that have been tabled or to a question that has remained, but we should not go back to the debate. So I'd like to give you a chance to ask a short question. The same goes for you, Mr. Van Kent. It is up to you to decide when you ask and no questions. Mr De Jong is also entitled to ask a question, not of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u363	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to do so. The big problem is that we are having a debate today on a pension fund of EUR 1,500 billion in 20 years' time, and there is nothing clear in this agreement about the consequences for young people, for the elderly and for all those who become...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u364	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u365	Exactly. And Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party already supports that. I'd like to ask him one question. Can I see Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party at my side if we, in the present system, ensure that the doomed do not continue to suffer? So you'll support my motions in a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u366	Thank you for that question. I have to disappoint Mr De Jong: I will not support these motions, because I see that the current contract is at the end of its existence, and that is what is incredibly affecting all those people you and I stand for. As a result, there has been no indexing for 10 years. That's why there's a lot of discontent. That is why I believe it is necessary to move towards a new world, where we can achieve it sooner, where we have a collective capacity but it becomes much clearer for people what is theirs and what happens to their money. We retain all the solidarity we have now. And, very important: there will also be more flexible calculation rules because you will appreciate in a different way. I think that Mr De Jong has fought hard for this in recent years. That gives pension funds more room, which is why I expect to be able to talk to experts after the fact that it will lead to the indexation of pensions more quickly. I think that's a good thing. I see the uncertainty in the coming years. We have to watch that very closely. I think that's our role here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u367	The interruptions must be short, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u368	I'm starting to like it more and more!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u369	Yeah, I can see it in you. Mr Van Kent doubts: shall I, shall I not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u370	We had a few questions in the first term. This is going to be a political debate; I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u371	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u372	Cozy!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u373	I hear Mr Gijs van Dijk being critical of the content of the pension agreement. We have talked about indexation, about possible reductions and about the heavy-duty occupational regime that is not structural. What parts of the pension agreement does the Labour Party not support? You say that you support the agreement, but that you are critical and that things still have to be done. Where's the pain point? What does the Labour Party not support of the agreements that have now been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u374	Let's clear up a misunderstanding. I have just said that we support the terms of the pension agreement, but I see that there are still a lot of questions of effect in the coming years, which the Minister rightly says he does not yet have an answer to, because all this still needs to be worked out. I say that because I think it is important that we do this generation-balance and that we do not want to let people fall between ships, from any generation, that you can count on a Labour Party that is going to be very critical of that. But that does not mean that we would not support the agreements, because we do support them. I'm saying there's still a lot of impact questions. Then you can count on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u375	Finally, Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u376	Yes, questions of impact; after 12 years of indexation, this goes on for years and even threatens pension reductions. That pension agreement didn't solve that. Yet you say: I support it. So the Labour Party accepts that in the coming years these indexations will not continue and that even pensions will be reduced. You can't take care of that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u377	This is gonna be a bit of a word game. I predict, and all the calculations show, that it will be even more difficult if you stay in the current system. Then more people are gonna get hit, and that's gonna take longer. So it's not the question whether we should jump. No, we have to jump to a new world. In that jumping we have to pay close attention to how that will work out for all these generations. I feel the pain of people, I speak them, like you, who haven't been indexed for ten years. As a result, income decreases every year. That can't be explained at some point. That's why such a new pension contract is needed. If we don't do something, it's really gonna go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u378	Thank you, Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u379	Thank you for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u380	Mr De Jong has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u381	Mr President, thank you very much. There's still so much unclear. To scrape off the average systematic system, so that people from 35 to 55 are simply severely disadvantaged. Nothing concrete in the pieces and nothing concrete today how to solve that. Entrance of current pension rights. Nothing concrete in the documents, nothing concrete today during the debate. Solidarity reserve. Nothing concrete in the documents, nothing concrete in this debate today either. And when it comes to pensioners who have gone wrong all these years: no compensation, no specific arrangements for those people. Mr. Chairman. It is quite scandalous that we are not improving the most beautiful pension system in the world but simply abolishing it. We'd like to avoid that. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to maintain the current pension system and to improve the calculation rate by means of a real accounting rate that reflects the multiannual return of pension funds, thereby preventing reductions and allowing indexing in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Jong and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-531]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u382	My next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not only to remove the pension rebates for 2021 but also to avoid unnecessary pension reductions in the coming years due to the extremely low interest rates created by the ECB and the current rigid calculation rate in the transition to a new pension system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Jong and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-532]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u383	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u384	Thank you, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first is about the goals of the pension agreement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court requested a qualitative analysis of the pension agreement, focusing on collectivity, solidarity and security;]] [[Whereas this analysis recommends the introduction of a pension compass to monitor whether the agreed targets, such as 80% of the average wage after 42 years of work, are still being achieved;]] [[calls on the Government to comply with Professor Vandenbroucke's recommendation and to make the pension compass proposed by him part of the periodic administrative consultation, to inform the Court periodically and to take additional measures if the agreed objectives are not to be met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-533]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u386	Mr. Chairman. The second motion concerns the fact that fewer and fewer people and more young people are retiring, and that we must stop it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Chamber and the Cabinet are concerned about the size of the white spot of 9% to 10% and that the pension agreement aims to increase the number of workers in retirement;]] [[Whereas the Labour Foundation has drawn up an attack plan containing 22 concrete measures, but no specific targets have yet been agreed;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Labour Foundation to continue monitoring the white stain and to report periodically to the Government on the progress of the white stain attack plan, and to inform the Chamber thereof;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with additional measures in consultation with the Labour Foundation if the share of white spots in 2024 does not show a significant downward trend every year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-534]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cabinet chooses to make the level of pensions largely dependent on stock exchange prices;]] [[noting that it is inevitable that fossil companies' shares will become significantly less valuable in the coming years;]] [[Whereas it is also in the interest of pensioners that pension funds end their investments in the fossil sector;]] [[calls on the government to oblige pension funds to come up with a plan to reject investment in the fossil fuel industry in the foreseeable future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-535]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u388	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an increase in the AOW provides greater security for all pensioners and, moreover, is relatively beneficial for the elderly with a low or no supplementary pension;]] [[calls on the Government to examine other ways of increasing the security for pensioners, such as the increase in the AOW and the possibility of increasing employers' contributions (temporarily),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-536]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u389	Mr. Chairman. I may have missed him, but in the remaining block I missed the question about how as a fund you always have to make your participants understand why you choose one of the two contracts. It may have been up to me, but I didn't think I heard him. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one motion. It is about legally standardizing the concept of a partner. That sounds very technical, but now you sometimes have two partners, one of whom, by different rules of a pension fund, would be regarded as next of kin to the other, but not, for example. There are very poignant stories of people who have been together for a long time and who do not receive a survivor's pension. The Minister has the ambition, and in order to support and pursue that ambition, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that uncertainty about the concept of "partner" leads to distressing situations where a surviving spouse is unexpectedly unable to claim a survivor's pension, e.g. because funds use different definitions of "partners" and impose different requirements for the notification of a partner;]] [[Whereas, in the letter on the elaboration of the pension agreement, the Cabinet states that it wishes to achieve an extensive legal partner definition, going beyond the advice of the Foundation of Labour;]] [[calls on the Government to legally anchor this extended legal partner definition as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-537]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u390	That could even be done by adding it perhaps by means of a letter of amendment to, for example, the divorce bill that we have. Mr President, I see Mr Van der Linde standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u391	Yeah, I see him, too. Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u392	My final comment would be: this is a first step. We must now continue to deal with this very carefully. There's laws coming up. I'm sure we'll talk about that a lot more. We came back in the recess because the pension agreement is so important that we now have a first debate on the main issues. I look forward to a careful outcome in the coming time and maximum pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u393	Let's talk about the concept of a partner. The minister just said he was going to see how it works when people live together at a young age without having a relationship. He said he'd take his time. This is, of course, contrary to this motion. How am I supposed to indicate it in that light?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u394	If I ask for this now to be legally anchored, then of course it will have to be carefully prepared by law, so I ask for speed and care. My point here was: do not wait until maybe 2026, but add it as soon as possible to a bill that might be running or something that will come as soon as possible, because this cannot wait very long. A lot of people get into very big problems when their partner dies. Mr Van der Linde has drawn attention to a specific point, for example, which he said: is that the intention? As far as I am concerned, this is part of the careful preparation that the Minister is doing. I am sure he will also be in contact with the social partners, but I do not think they have shown all the ambition that is needed in the foundation advice. Good to judge due diligence, but speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u395	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u396	Thank you, Mr President, for the answers. I will put forward as soon as possible a proposal for a more extensive hearing, because there are a lot of technical issues here. This is not insignificant in about the biggest reform operation you can imagine in this country. We've had clear answers, though. I look forward to the impact of the labour market effects on the DC schemes, the consultation with older people and trade unions on how they will be involved in the boarding debate and the feedback to the Chamber, and the survivor's pension, which really must be completely watertight. I will not hide the fact that I would much rather have a basis for building than risk cover, but this is what the social partners have agreed. But then there really must be no hole in it. Those few A4's explanations are really crucial. If you want to keep your support under this pension reform, then also for the rest of the Netherlands it must be clear what you are proposing. Let me put it this way: it is not quite that, outside this Chamber. Let's just be honest. I insist on having some sort of pass-through of what would have happened if we had had this system since 1945. There may be some assumptions in it, but we would also like to see the volatility of the pension in the new system as part of the coalition agreement. I must insist that I have an indication of this before the end of the recess. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u397	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. I call Mr Krol on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, had a motion to remove the individual right to object, but two colleagues have already tabled that motion. So I don't have to do that. That gives me the opportunity to put one more question to the Minister. I hope he will answer that in second term. The current 77-year-olds and older people have not been indexed for 12 years and are also not indexed in the coming years. Then they're fat in the 80s. The contents of the pension fund have doubled. They're losing 20% in income on it. Can the Minister explain what kind of group is "balanced"? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u399	Thank you, Mr. Krol. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. 17 motions have been tabled and I see a note; I don't know what it says. Oh, how long are we gonna suspend, is the question. I'm now suspending to half nine. Then you can combine it with the dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u400	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u401	Thank you, Madam President. There were four things remaining from the first term, which I will come back to, and there were a few questions. Then I'll go to the motions. In the first place, Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether it would be possible to make an insight into what contract you are switching to. The transition plan contains all the choices and considerations regarding the transition, including which contract is chosen, so yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u402	Very briefly, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u403	So that just needs to be properly discussed with the participants, like all the other things, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u404	Sure, sure, yeah. That is also obvious, of course, because in the end it is about what is best for the participants. Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van der Linde had asked what the collective objection law was like. The exact details are still to be found. It looks at the powers already conferred on the bodies in the case of an external collective transfer of value. We have already had a discussion on this in the framework of the IORP, for example. I have already told you exactly what the enhanced collective powers and participation for the accountability body and the stakeholder body will look like, but that still needs to be worked out. Through these bodies the individual gets a say in the decision, but he cannot refuse to enter individually. That is precisely the discussion on the individual right of objection. This does not mean that there are no individual possibilities for a judicial test, for example on the basis of the ECHR, because of course they remain. An individual can always go to court. This is only about the individual right of objection, Article 83 of the Pension Act. The consultation with the interest groups, including the elderly, will be included in the drafting of the legislative proposal, so I will come back to that in the drafting of the legislative proposal. Mr Van der Linde spoke about the new contract. There is also a possibility for pension funds to offer a flat-rate benefit on the basis of the ftk rules. I forgot a question from Mr Bruins about the generation test, his motion last year. I agree with Mr Bruins that it is very important that the effects on generations are properly mapped out. That's what we did with the CPB wire transfer. The CPB report "New pension rules: effects and options of the advanced contract and a transition to a flat contribution rate" was published on 19 June. It charted the generational effects up to the birth year 2040. Mr Krol spoke about generations not yet born; this is true both for the new contract and for the comparison with the current contracts. These generation effects have been made clear, both in terms of expected pension benefits and in terms of net earnings. In doing so, we have tried to provide insight into the effects of this transition on the generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u405	Then I would like to put that motion to the vote. That is the motion that was held on 5 February 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u406	It's actually just done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u407	Well, it's about the broad labour market reforms and there's more coming. But before the pension agreement it has already been implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u408	Yes. The motions. Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 521 with the request to postpone the negotiations, I would advise against. In fact, I'm going to work very quickly on the elaboration of these laws. The motion in part No. 522 calls for Article 83 not to be put into effect. The objective of the ESC, the cabinet and the social partners is to keep existing pensions together as much as possible. That is why we have opted for enhanced collective powers for the accountability bodies and the stakeholder body. The individual right of objection has been temporarily replaced for the transition by that strengthened collective right of objection, but of course remains valid for the rest. Against that background, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 523 by Mrs Van Brenn on the formal role of older people's associations. As a general rule, I have already promised this to Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van der Linde to involve all kinds of organisations in the drafting of all legislation. Everyone gets involved, but nobody gets a formal role. This motion calls for a formal role. Moreover, as I have already said to Mr Omtzigt, all generations must be involved in this transition of the pension system, young people, workers and also the elderly, in order to be able to shape it in a balanced way. Against this background: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u409	Short question, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u410	I understand that this summer there is a consultation with both the elderly unions and the trade unions on the role of participation and that we will hear back what the result was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u411	Yes. You'll hear it back, and I'll take it with me in the drafting of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u412	I'd like to hear that back around September 1st. So I don't want us to have it for another year and a half. You can do that in the next eight to ten weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u413	For the next eight to ten weeks, I don't know, because I just want to send my people on vacation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u414	No, okay. October 1st, I get it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u415	I go in consultation, because this is an important point. I do the consultation with all these unions in the preparation of the bill. I also understand the point that you simply want to follow what is happening there and whether all parties are connected. I'll report back on that. But when? After the summer, if it's all right with you. A great deal needs to be done at the same time. People have worked very hard. I'm gonna give them a vacation, too. After the summer, people have to work hard to work it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u416	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u417	The motion in part No. 524 requests that a transition measure be established on the RTS with a minimum of 2%. That is an increase in the rate of calculation. We've had a lot of debates about that. You know my position on this. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 525 actually asks the same question: 2% interest. Dissuade. The motion in part No. Mr Van Kent's 526 concerns the accounting rules of pension funds, i.e. the accounting rate. You know my position on this. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 527 concerns the individual right of objection. That is actually the same motion as Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 522. With the same argument: dissuade. The motion in part No. 528 by Mr Van Kent, the government requests that the RVU levy be abolished in full and in a structural manner without further conditions. So we have agreed a package of €1 billion for the heavy-duty professions for the coming years, the years 2021-2025. In doing so, we are seriously enabling employers and workers to work on the heavy-duty professions. This is not only about early retirement, but also about sustainable employability. That's more than the RVU. It is also about saving leave and sustainable employability. The complete abolition of the RVU is a bad idea. Moreover, this motion is not covered. That's why I'm telling her off. The motion in part No. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders asked the government to examine the extent to which sectors could benefit from the subsidy scheme as from 1 January and also to consult the social partners on the level of the subsidy rate. I have already promised that I am prepared to see if 1 January is possible, to do my best. We already have an agreement to discuss the subsidy rate with the social partners. Again, remember that if the percentage goes up, the number of employees will fall. Against that background, judge Room. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders' motion for a resolution (Doc. 530 calls on the government to consult with the social partners to come forward with proposals to shorten the waiting period in the run-up to the new pension contract. An important step is already being taken in the broadcasting sector. The waiting period is reduced to eight weeks. The conditions of employment remain a matter between employees and employers. I like that and I don't want to go into it all the time. I am prepared to talk to the Labour Foundation in order to identify the advantages and disadvantages of a further reduction. If I may read the motion like that, I'll give this judgment Chamber. I see Mr Gijs van Dijk nodding. Mr De Jong's motion for a resolution 531 concerns the debate on interest rates and discounts. The position is well known. Dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 532: calls on the government not only to take the pension discounts off the table for 2021 but also for the coming years. I have already said to Mrs Van Brenn in an interruption debate in the first term that I cannot promise that because we do not know how the economy is going to develop. Against that background, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u418	Perhaps a clarification of that motion. It also calls for reductions by avoiding the transition to a new pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u419	But there is no reduction as a result of the switch. There isn't one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u420	To respond very briefly to this, we do not know what a pension fund will have to meet in order to make the transition to a new pension system in the near future. We read everywhere that if a pension fund is below or below 90% or at 95% or at any rate, we do not know whether it should be at 100% to be able to enter the new pension system, but that there is a chance. In other words, can you prevent pension reductions from occurring through the switch or because they would be needed in the transition to a new pension system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u421	Okay, that's what you mean. Let me get this straight. This is what the motion says. 1. Take the discounts off the table for the coming years. 2. The extremely low interest rate created by the ECB. 3. The current rigid accounting rate. I disagree with all three arguments. With that, I advise against this motion. I said earlier that we should clarify how we go from the current to the new system and what requirements we have to meet in terms of the path of integration. In the coming period, I will have to work on this with the social partners. But with all the considerations in this motion, I disagree. The motion continues to dissuade. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 533. I'm gonna give you a long answer to this. As I understand the social pension compass, it is important to have clear at national level what objectives we set as a country for citizens' pensions. That is what Mr Vandenbroucke said in his report. It is about considerations such as when you can retire and how high the pension is. After that, it is important to indicate whether the goals you have set will be achieved in practice. That is Mr Vandenbroucke's sort of compass. I'm very comfortable with that. That's what it's all about: set clear goals and be responsible for whether you're gonna make it. Last year, we set clear targets in the pension agreement. In the elaboration, chapter 10 of the main note, those goals have passed. These objectives have also been guiding the development of the last year, including for trade unions and employers' organisations. At the same time, I know that much more will be done in the near future. Then I'll have to come to your room with legislation. It also focuses on achieving the goals set out in the 2019 pension agreement. That is the set of goals we have agreed on. I am very willing, as I said in the first term, to inform your Chamber periodically about the progress of the further development of the second pillar pension and whether the objectives we are aiming to achieve are being met. If I may read the motion in such a way that I inform the Chamber about the progress of the implementation of the second pillar pension and whether the objectives are achieved, Mr Smeulders said not to attach the form to it, then I can leave the motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u422	It's okay. We're going on a five or six-year stretch. It seems very important to me that there should be a periodic moment in which we look not only at the performance and the details, but also at the bigger picture. It's fine to do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u423	Thank you. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 534, which calls on the Government, in consultation with the Labour Foundation, to adopt additional measures if the share of white spots in 2024 does not show an annual significantly decreasing trend. We both want the same thing, which is that the white spot is getting smaller. In the plan of attack, a periodic, i.e. biennial, investigation has been agreed. I'll report on that to your room. If I may read the motion in such a way that the share of white stain in 2024 shows a decreasing trend compared to 2018, I would like to give it a ruling Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Van Wassenberg and Mr Van Raan asked the government to oblige pension funds to come up with a plan to get rid of investment in the fossil industry in the foreseeable future. There is now a directive on socially responsible investment. Minister Kaag and I signed a covenant on sustainability and socially responsible investment last year or one and a half years ago down here in Nieuwspoort with the 100 largest investors. That was also the case with the large pension funds. This includes PFZW and APG, the major parties. So that's a policy that's already in place. But as a minister, I don't deal with the investment policy of the funds. Those funds have themselves joined that IMVO covenant about the big investors. Against that background, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u424	Of course, it's good news that things are moving a bit. Maybe I can make it easier for the minister. It now states that pension funds must be obliged to come up with a plan of action. I have changed that into: encouraging pension funds to come up with a plan of action. That goes a little further than the right direction. Perhaps with that explanation and that change the Minister can say: I would like to leave the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u425	This is already happening. This is really happening. That's why we have imvo. That is why these big investors... I believe that 90% of the assets invested by Dutch pension funds.. have embraced this and that IMVO covenant has been signed. That's what Secretary Kaag and I are looking at, both proud as a peacock. Photos were taken of that. Of course, as a minister, I was very pleased with that. So this is happening already. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg has another legislative initiative on the same subject. But the sector is already working hard on this. The motion in part No. Mr Van Wassenberg and Mr Van Raan asked the government to examine other ways of increasing the security for pensioners, such as the increase in the AOW and the possibility of temporarily increasing employers' contributions. For all older people, whether they have a high or a low supplementary pension, the AOW is the stable base, which has always been increased and indexed over the past ten years. Employers' contributions are part of the labour-conditional process at the collective bargaining table. The fiscal framework provides sufficient scope for agreement. That's why I don't recommend this motion. Apart from that, we have a debate every year on purchasing power. In recent years, we have increased not only this cabinet but also the cabinet for this, in a number of steps, the elderly discount, precisely to support the people who are retired and who are not subject to indexation, in their income. The motion in part No. Mr Van Weyenberg's 537 concerns the legal anchoring of a comprehensive legal partner definition as soon as possible. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that a legal definition of the concept of a partner leads to greater clarity for participants and their partners. In his motion, Mr Van Weyenberg called for this to be done as quickly as possible. Two legislative pathways would then be a logical vehicle, namely the Pension Bill in the event of divorce or the Renovation Bill in the pension system. Both are intended to enter into force on 1 January 2022. Against that background, I'm leaving this motion of censure Chamber. Oh, I see Mr Krol standing by the interrupting microphone. He asked me a question I forgot. You're right. Actually, I think it's a repeat of moves, Mr. Krol, including the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u426	Before proceeding: what is your verdict on the motion in part No. 537 by Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u427	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u428	Okay. Then there is Mr Krol's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u429	In the first term, I also had this little debate with Mrs Van Brenk. I understand the grumpy very well. It is true that, in the case of a large number of funds since 2010, not all of them are still regularly indexed or partially indexed. But most of the funds, especially the large ones, are not indexed. This applies to pensioners, who feel that directly in their wallet. The same applies to the workers, who simply build up less. This is an unsustainable situation towards the future. That is why it is so important that we do this pension reform. But you can't suddenly change the rules in the meantime, because then you're going to slide with abilities over the generations. I don't think that's wise. You have to have a new law with new clear rules, new distribution and filling rules that are rationally fair. They must be fair to young people, workers, older workers and pensioners. Unfortunately, in the last ten years, partly as a result of falling interest rates, pension liabilities have risen sharply, but paradoxically, the same applies to assets, also as a result of falling interest rates. It just can't be explained. We've seen that in the last few years. With the new system, we are taking a step towards the future and hopefully moving beyond the generational conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u430	The problem for 77-year-olds and older people remains, of course, that there is no indexing for 12 years and that there is no indexing in the coming years. By the time those who stand a chance of that, they'll be well in their 80s. It won't do them any good. How can you explain to these people that it is balanced? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u431	I can explain very well that it is balanced. As I have just said, there is also no index for the construction of workers at the same time. It is not the case that only pensioners are not indexed; workers are also not indexed. But again, I understand the grumpyness about the current system very well. That is why I have worked so hard in recent years on a new system, and that is why I am so pleased that it is now on the table, with the support of the trade unions and employers' organisations. Hopefully there will also be broad support in your room. Finally, I am given something about the Bruins motion on the generational test. The Minister for the Interior will inform the House of Representatives. So the friendly request is to hold the motion for a moment. I'm going to bring him to the attention of the Home Secretary. I'm gonna call Mrs. Ollongren and see if she'll respond soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u432	Mr. Bruins, what's your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u433	I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u434	For that, you have until the votes. He's thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u435	Thank you, Madam President. It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u436	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-14-tweedekamer-3.u437	That concludes this debate. We're going to vote in 15 minutes.
