ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-28.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. The subject we are going to discuss is the amendment of the Tobacco and Smoke Decision on the introduction of a smoking ban in areas of educational buildings and establishments. One speaker has been logged in. That is Mrs Hermans of the VVD, whom I am giving the floor to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No more smoking in the square of primary school, secondary school, an MBO, a college or the university: that appointment from the Prevention Agreement is now laid down in the tobacco decision. You could say we're setting that standard now. This is part of the goal that we set out in the Prevention Agreement, namely that children should be able to grow up in a smoke-free environment. But setting a standard is one; we must now also ensure that it works and that we achieve that goal with each other. That's what primary schools want. That's what universities, colleges, MBOs and high schools want. But just saying to these parties that something has to happen doesn't mean it's going to work. We also need to talk to each other now about how we're really gonna get this done and how we're gonna make it work in practice. There are still a number of questions, as I understand it, about the NVWA's enforcement framework, for example. When will that be done? If there is, I think it would also be good to discuss this with all those parties, to ensure that it is properly implemented. Then you can learn from each other and exchange experiences to achieve this in a good way. So I'm asking the Secretary of State if he can commit to such a meeting. When will that frame be ready? Can he inform the House of Representatives about how that conversation went? Then about the NVWA. The NVWA actually receives a number of new or additional tasks with the implementation of the Prevention Agreement. My group lacks an overview of exactly what this whole new and additional task is. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State for a letter which I would like to receive before the treatment of the new Drink and Horeca Act, which gives an overview of all the new tasks assigned to the NVWA under the Prevention Agreement. What about capacity and financial resources? What does this mean, for example, for the choices that the NVWA then has to make in order not to do things anymore or to do things differently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-28.u3	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. Then the Secretary of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-28.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad we can discuss this decision today. As far as I am concerned, that means another nice step towards a smoke-free generation. Mrs Hermans asked a few very specific questions after a few introductory remarks. Firstly, it asked how the NVWA is going to maintain this, how it is going to maintain it and when that enforcement framework is ready. I do not know the date, but it must be ready before the summer, because the decision will take effect on 1 August. Last week I had a very constructive discussion with the Education Councils, the domes, which are very curious about this and, as far as I am concerned, are entitled to clarity on this point. I have agreed with the Education Councils that I will schedule a consultation between the NVWA when they have finished that framework; that will be before the summer, with the Education Councils. I fully agree with Mrs Hermans that it is a good thing that the organisations concerned have complete clarity about how they will be maintained and what regime they are dealing with. So I'd be happy to admit that this conversation will take place. I think Mrs Hermans also asked: can the Chamber get a report of that conversation, to see if there are any other hiccups in it? I would also like to say that there is a report of that discussion to the Chamber before the entry into force of this decision. A broader question from Mrs Hermans is the following. Under the Prevention Agreement, new tasks are assigned to various organisations. The NVWA must maintain it all. What impact does this have on NVWA's capacity? Does that lead to displacement of other activities? Any new people coming in? What's that all about? How will the NVWA maintain and what costs are involved? I can say something about it now, but I think it's much nicer when I do it in a letter. I would like to do that for the treatment of what Mrs Hermans calls the Drinking and Horeca Act, but which will soon be called the Alcohol Act. That's just as easy. I would like to admit that I will forward that letter with that overview, including alcohol enforcement, to the Chamber for the plenary consideration of that bill. I think I have answered the questions that have been asked, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-28.u5	Looks that way. At least there are no follow-up questions. Thank you very much. That brings us to the conclusion of this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-28.u6	We'll wait for the next ruler to arrive. That will be the Minister of Education, Culture and Science.
