ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the goodbye to our colleague Erik Ronnes. I'll start with a few passages from his suicide note. "It's not an easy decision to stop. Especially now during the corona crisis, where there are many uncertainties for the inhabitants of our country. Nevertheless, I have made the choice to contribute to a new board in the province of North Brabant as a deputy Space and Living. There was an urgent appeal to me which I responded to. With mixed feelings, because I fully realize the importance of the work of the representative of the people. Over the past five years, I have given my full support to contribute to a better Netherlands as a regionally rooted representative. A special thank you to my group colleagues from the CDA. You guys were a really good team to work in. I am also going to miss my other colleagues in the House of Representatives. Despite political-ideological differences, I have been able to work with all my colleagues in a good and pleasant way. Thank you for that. Thanks also to all employees for the support. It was an honor to be able to play the role of a People's Representative." And you're gonna end up with "How can it be otherwise "hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo-hoo." Dear Erik, In your maiden speech, five years ago, you didn't put up with chairs or benches where your heart is. You even started with some lines from a song by a well-known Brabant folk singer. As spokesman for Living, Spatial Planning and Finance, you felt like a fish in the water. Your expertise grew and you became a stable factor in your group and in the Chamber. The fact that you're leaving for Brabant isn't a surprise to you, but it is for others. There are major challenges and challenges for the province of North Brabant and its inhabitants, you turn yourself in. With the time, almost a year before your mandate expires, everyone is less happy. You know how I feel about that. It is not very nice, because membership of Parliament does bring with it a certain responsibility. You're gonna miss the Chamber, but I'm sure you're gonna be committed to Brabant with soul and salvation. I wish you every success in your new position and I also say to his Brabants: "Hello! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments, because I see the group chairman, Mr Heerma, with a bunch of flowers he would like to give. But it's a half-mile away!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	Again, thank you. I see your wife's here, too. Maybe you could have a cup of coffee together.
