ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u1	A special welcome back to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It is good to welcome you back to this Chamber! I repeat that the fixed interrupt microphones, which are operated by hand, have been replaced by a microphone that can be operated by the foot. I would also like to inform Members that, in the event of a motion being tabled, you must read the text yourself and then put this motion on a bench to your right. The guardian of the chamber will then collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Minister back. About the law before us today, I can be brief. My group supports the creation of the possibility of temporarily extending temporary leases for one or more months in the light of the corona crisis. The question is whether the number of months laid down in the law will be enough, but we trust that the Minister will come back to us if he does not. In the course of the examination of the law in the Lower House and in the brief written procedure here, it has been discussed whether there should no longer be any need to hand over tenants who have fallen into financial difficulties as a result of the loss of income due to the current crisis. Much has already been changed about this, which I will not repeat. As a result of the written reply to the questions put by some of my colleagues in this Chamber, I still have a supplementary question. In that reply, the Minister states that it is in consultation with the Authority housing corporations to accommodate tenants with payment problems, and that this is also about allowing measures that corporations are not normally allowed to take. Can the Minister indicate what measures are envisaged in this regard? And is this also about being more generous in applying the possibility of a rent reduction? The Minister also indicates his intention to create in the bill rent and income limits the possibility of a temporary rental discount. This legislative process will take some time and cannot therefore contribute as a crisis measure. Is the Minister prepared, in anticipation of this bill, to make temporary rental discounts possible earlier? These were my questions. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I should like to give the floor to Mr Crone of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. I also really appreciate the Minister's coming back. She has stretched the distance of 1.5 meters very much for the last one and a half years, but I am very happy that she is now close again. We would like to bridge that 1.5 meters again now, but that is not allowed, then you intervene. Welcome back, Minister. I agree with the questions put by Mrs De Boer. There will be another motion, as announced, from Mr Kox. I would particularly like to support why we believe that something really needs to be done, which was also requested by the entire opposition in the House of Representatives. Let me first say that I am pleased with this law, Minister. This gives support, but first and foremost also aid to the landlords, because there will no longer be an automatic extension of the contract to an indefinite period of time. So this is good for the landlords, also for the tenants. But in that balance we also miss a little more attention for the tenants. I will focus on the fact that many tenants are now facing serious financial problems. Half of them are already in trouble; we already know that. And anyone who has children, looking for a house or wants to rent somewhere, even the two of them, who just pays €700 or €800, or more. And many of us, including our children, have already had a tens-a-month rent increase in recent years, and that's where this is coming up. And then you'd have a flex contract, and you'd have lost both. Then you have to go to welfare, and then you can't pay it anymore; the old rent already, let alone that increase. So where we are so generous, let me just say for the booking.coms of this world, freezing is not such a complicated thing for landlords. The Minister is very confident, of making an appeal, of being kind. That is what the House of Representatives and we have said about flex contracts. Fortunately, however, last week, the Chamber said that flex contracts can no longer be restricted to entrepreneurs; we must also oblige them to do something for flex workers. So I share the view of good faith, but there has to be a stick behind the door. That is why I am in a position to support the motion to call on the Minister to freeze. We can talk about the modalities and there are many possibilities. This is all the more so since, of course, there is no real market operation. People can't say, "Well, if the rent is too high, I'm going to another house," because that house isn't there. That is still separate from the fact that there is no search time, given the corona problem. On television you can see how difficult it is for buyers to visit a house with a real estate agent. Of course, now it is not possible to just move and find another house. Financially it is even beneficial for the government, because if the rent does not go up, it also has to pay less rent. Of course, there are options and provisions, but in this respect it is even a financial windfall for the government if we do this now. But it is the social justice that prevails. People are really pushed underwater, even further than they are sometimes underwater. That is precisely the case with the people who need the most. That is why we would like to support the motion that will be tabled in the near future in order to ensure that the landlords who do not want to bind it do not want to do so. It doesn't bother the good guys, because they planned all the good guys. They're on the Minister's side and ours. We always find it annoying when the good guys have to suffer again from the evil guys. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u6	I thought the Minister would answer, but perhaps it would be a good idea to interrupt. At the beginning of his contribution I hear Mr Crone say that this law is mainly intended for landlords, because if they do nothing now, a temporary lease will not be converted into an indefinite contract. But I understand correctly that this is the case, so it is still true that if there is no termination at the end of the current period, it will simply become an indefinite contract. I think that the Minister will perhaps make that clear, but it seems to me to be a very bad thing if something about this is going to appear in the Acts which is not legally correct. I do not know whether Mr Crone wants to respond to this or whether we are jointly asking the Minister to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u7	That ball's gonna be right on the dot, so the minister's gonna shoot it in later. But the balance is clear in this law. Of course, the landlord can always cancel, but if he doesn't, it would go on indefinitely. Let the Minister explain the legal fine-tuning later. But that balance was in it. It's not just a tenant's right to sit in your house any longer. It is also in the interest of the landlord not to automatically be attached to an indefinite duration. That was the only reason why in the Lower House the VVD voted in favour, because of course it is very liberal oriented. He liked that the landlord was protected by this. Otherwise, maybe she wouldn't even have voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Kox on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In normal times, a Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is no luxury, you might say. In times of crisis, we need the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations very much. The Minister has been replaced very well, but I am glad that we can now do business again with 'the original'. I also hope that we can do business. I have already said in previous legislative proposals that at the moment the government is not acting on the basis of the government agreement, but on the basis of what is best for the country and its citizens in this unprecedented and unknown crisis. That is why Parliament places great faith in the government and in the government's proposals. That is what we are doing again with this bill, which I think will be adopted unanimously not only in the House of Representatives but also here too, even though it is far from clear and there were still more wishes on the other side and here about how the bill could have been drafted. But, as has been said, in times of crisis, the government must act. The coronavirus does not wait either, and a parliament must be prepared to give broad support to our government. However, I must say that the Minister is not very robust in taking accompanying measures on this point. In my group's view, where we see other ministers taking really big and substantial steps, this minister is on the economic side. Let me give you a few examples. Why is the extension so short? It seems that we should probably have a follow-up legislative proposal by May. Couldn't you have done that a little longer? A second point is the following. If we were to prevent tenants from getting into unacceptable problems, would it not have been wiser to say that no one will be expelled from the house in the next six months unless there is criminal activity? Now the Minister's statement is that she is counting on landlords to be able to behave. I have a lot of faith in a lot of landlords, but I don't have every confidence in all the landlords. This means that there are problems that could have been avoided by a more robust government measure. Then there is a third comment. Why isn't there room for landlords at the moment to call off rent and lower rent? I understand the Minister is negotiating with the Authority housing corporations, but is there any result? That would have been an obvious, robust step. The fourth step has already been mentioned. Why hasn't a temporary rental stop been chosen now? If the government can count on Parliament to look generously at proposals, then I also think that if the almost complete opposition in the House of Representatives and perhaps the entire opposition in this Chamber makes a proposal to arrive at a temporary rent freeze, it should take a serious look at that. We are making this proposal because we know that if problems arise, they will be more severe for tenants, because there is a larger group of tenants who are first vulnerable to socio-economic decline. We know, and the Minister knows, of course, that the very best thing that Nibud research has shown is that there are already 800,000 tenants who already pay such a high rent that they are unable to make the basic expenses and that almost half of the tenants do not have the minimum buffer required by the Nibud. Then it's not higher mathematics to think that if there's gonna be blows, and they're gonna come, which is probably the first thing the tenants get, the fastest and the hardest. Hence my question to the Minister once again: why not come to a temporary rental stop? If we seize that opportunity, we will at least give some space to a whole group of Dutch people who are most likely to get into trouble first. In view of the debate, I would like to table a motion on this matter in the first place. The President shall: Mr Kox, Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr De Boer and Mr Crone proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the large risks arising from the current corona crisis;]] [[having regard to the precarious situation in which a significant proportion of tenants already live;]] [[assuming that this situation will deteriorate rather than improve in the coming period;]] [[calls on the government, as an emergency measure, to allow a temporary rental stop for both the social sector and the free sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35431-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u10	I request that the motion be placed on the bench to your right. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u11	I have another question for the author. The issue has just been discussed, but how does Mr Kox see the term'make possible'? In principle, is it possible for any landlord to enter a rental stop? Any landlord is free to say: you're having a hard time, especially social housing, so I'll give you a rental stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u12	Every landlord is free to do so, but a lot of landlords are also free to ask as much as they want, for example in the free sector. The other landlords are free to ask for a rent increase up to certain limits. This can be done on the basis of the average rent increase, 2.6%, but it can also be done on the basis of the maximum reasonable rent, between 5% and 6.5%, slightly wider thus. There are all these possibilities, but I would like the Minister to examine the possibility of a temporary rental stop with landlords. In practice, a large number of corporations have already made that decision themselves. Other corporations have continued a very limited rent increase, but there are also private landlords who continue very large rent increases. We are currently living in a time of generic measures because they are easy to implement. Let us therefore ask the Minister to make it possible for a temporary rental stop to be introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u13	So I can explain the motion in such a way that an appeal is made to the Minister to talk to the sector in particular to see how the vulnerable people Mr Kox is talking about can be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u14	But then concretely, in the form, as the House of Representatives asked, via a temporary rental stop. So that's a permanent arrangement. It's not gonna work for next year. For this year it is about making a temporary rental stop possible. This Chamber does not have the right to amend a law, but it has the right to advise the Minister to do so. If we did not increase the rents this year, we would give a large part of the Dutch residents who are almost certainly the first to get in trouble, a bit of a buffer. As I said, the Nibud already thinks half of the tenants don't have that buffer. Let's be careful with that. That's the idea of the motion. As has been said, on the other side of the House, it has received the support of all the opposition groups, apart from Mr Van Haga, but it is a bit in the industry itself. I imagine he didn't sign. All the other opposition parties have signed. If we continue to adopt proposals from the government to combat the effects of the crisis, I believe that the government should also adopt proposals from a large part of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr Van der Linden, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u16	Finally. That's obvious. The content is also clear, but I was particularly concerned about the term'make it possible'. Is that talking, or is that also imposing obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u17	The details must be decided by the Minister, because we do not have the right of amendment, but the message is clear. Failure to continue this year's rent increase would be extremely good for a large proportion of the population that is in the first line if this health crisis has socio-economic consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u18	I assume that the Minister can also be welcomed back from the interrupting microphone. I have a question for clarification from Mr Kox. In particular, Mr Crone anticipated the motion to be tabled, stating that there should be a stick behind the door and that there should be a freeze. Like Mr Van der Linden, I have heard very well that you were talking about a possibility and not an obligation. I would very much like to see your intention, namely that we should not impose anything as a Chamber. We cannot amend, Mr. Kox rightly said. But I think the operative part of the motion is very close.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u19	We cannot, indeed, amend it, as Mr Schalk says. So this Chamber cannot say: the rent increase must be frozen. There's no point, because that's not what this Chamber is about. But this Chamber can say to the Minister: look at the data and see where the blows will come down first; know that not raising the rent in any case, for example in the eyes of the Nibud, would give room to give that vulnerable group of tenants a small buffer for what is to come. We don't know what's coming. So the Chamber calls on the Minister to do everything possible to see if such a rental stop can be agreed. We cannot instruct her to do that; there are more partners for that. But the Minister has options. We are living in a time of emergency legislation, so the Minister has opportunities to say: considering everything, I think this should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u20	What Mr Kox says confirms me in the positive attitude I have towards the motion: we are not going to submit it to the Minister by means of this motion, but we are asking her to examine the possibilities and, where possible, to use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u21	The direction of the motion must be clear. The direction of the motion is to see whether a temporary rental stop can indeed be achieved. But I agree with Mr Schalk: the Minister is about this; this Chamber is not about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u22	For the sake of clarity, we can't force the minister to do anything, which is why we have a motion. But it is the intention of the SP to impose it on the whole sector. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u23	The intention of the petitioners is to do what is stated in the motion. As Mr van der Burg has seen, this is a very broad group of groups. It also corresponds to almost half of the House of Representatives, so it's not a SP proposal. It is up to the Minister to see how she could achieve that. We cannot oblige her, because we cannot amend the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u24	But let's say the Minister points out that I am talking to the different sectors, both private and corporate. And let's say at some point it indicates that some of the parties are willing to make a rent cut or a rental stop, but some of them don't, and it's up to the sector. Then how do you react to that? Because I can only address you and not the co-positor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u25	If the Minister embraces this motion, if it is adopted, then it will do what this Chamber wants, but also a large part of the Chamber on the other side. Then I am confident that when the Minister comes to inform us about the state of play, we will be able to discuss it further. Once again, it is up to the Minister and not to this Chamber. So far, however, I have also said that I do not think it is sufficiently robust for the Minister to say: I trust that landlords will do so. That's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u26	We need to be very precise in what we want right now. I think that's the most important thing. We want that rent freeze. We can't legally enforce that. That's obvious, too. By "the stick behind the door," I meant this. Suppose the minister finds out and comes to the conclusion: gosh, a lot of landlords don't, do opt for that rent increase and don't freeze the rents. Suppose this is a high percentage of the landlords. Then it will not be achieved what the proposers want. Then the Minister can, I think, come up with all the instruments necessary to put a stick behind the door; we do not necessarily have to come up with them. But I would also like to draw attention to the reverse situation. My mailbox is also full, like probably the Minister's, with all those stories about those high rises. Then the Minister can't say with dry eyes: I've called on people, on landlords, but they don't? Well, I guess she'll intervene on her own. I would see it as some kind of commitment, but focused on results. So I would also like to see a form of commitment to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u27	What is your question to Mr Kox?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u28	Doesn't he want to make it too weak? He started saying, "This isn't SP, this is all of them." I ask him whether he agrees that there should be a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u29	As I said, the direction of the motion is clear, just as the ruling across the street was clear. It says: this is what we would like. But what this Chamber can't do is say, like this. And so we're gonna leave this with the minister. I hope that if this motion is adopted, the Minister will not withdraw the motion from her, but will embrace it. And I hope that's what she's gonna do. Then we have every confidence in it and then we are one step further than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mr. Van der Burg, you've interrupted this motion three times. I'll give you one more chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u31	I would like to make a small correction. Mr Kox said just now: the other side's statement is clear. But I do believe that the verdict across the street was to reject this motion. In that sense, he is clear, but he is different from what Mr Kox is explaining and suggesting here. Do you agree with me, Mr. Kox?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u32	I fully agree with you that all opposition parties have indeed voted in favour of the motion on the other side minus Van Haga, but the coalition parties have not voted in favour of it. That means that there were two votes missing for a majority. But I can also count, and I see that there is a chance that the motion will be adopted here in this Chamber. Then a large part of the parliament on both sides is in favour. I ask the Minister to say: fine, I understand the direction, I embrace the motion and I'm going to see what I can do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I hear the Minister would like a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u34	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the proposal 35431, temporary rules on the possibility of extending fixed-term leases. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm also very happy to be back in your midst. That's what I'm personal about. I am also for the reason that we are here today, because we now have to do everything we can to do what needs to be done for people in the Netherlands, because we are in pretty bad weather. The fact that you are meeting here today on a number of proposals from the cabinet indicates that democracy in this institution is working hard on this too. I am grateful for that, as well as for the kind words that have been spoken about my return. The crisis is affecting everyone. He hits tenants, too. I would just like to say immediately at the beginning of the reply that I am very aware of this and that the cabinet is very aware of it. Stientje van Veldhoven, who has observed this part of my package, has also taken immediate measures, including this temporary law. She also entered into the conversation with landlords and industry organisations to really prevent people from being evicted in the fact that they have no alternative at all. Those are very concrete things. Very concrete steps have also been taken to prevent such things. I think it's very good that this happened. Mr. Chairman. The specific attention paid to tenants in this regard is entirely justified. I'll never deny that. But I would point out, if you say that I am not making a big gesture to the tenants right now, that as a cabinet, as a government, we are making a big gesture to the income side of people. This is the emergency measure taken by the Cabinet: a broad package of support for households to ensure that they retain their income as much as possible. By supporting salaries, wages. By making sure that a sum is credited every month, so that people can continue to bear their ordinary burdens. That's the route chosen. The amount of the benefit, which is unchanged, of course. The rent allowance, which applies specifically to tenants. Inside, you still have people who are getting into very specific trouble because of the corona crisis. There has to be customization for that. That's why we make sure there can't be any home evictions. That is why we are making sure that this is the legislative proposal before us that temporary leases can be renewed for a short period of time. That is the approach adopted. So that's not exactly the angle of the rent side, it's the angle of the income side. Indeed, that was also the subject of the House of Representatives. Some suggested that, for example, inflation should be reduced to the level of inflation. There were also questions about freezing the rents, very general. That might be possible in itself, but that would have been a different approach. If you do the income side, it doesn't make sense to approach the group of tenants in the same generic way. I am also pleased to note that the landlords are also extremely sensitive to this. To people who are really in trouble, customization is applied, very wide, across the line, from housing corporations to private landlords. In addition, the IVBN has announced that it advises its members to be very moderate with rent increases. Inflation plus one maximum the IVBN advises its members. All this indicates that everyone is taking it very seriously and also wants to take their responsibility in it. Of course, we do not yet know exactly what we are looking at, but it is obvious that it will have its effect. I would suggest that I now answer the questions that see the law as it stands and that I then return, via the route of the motion tabled, to the general point of the level of the rents and their possible freezing. I will start with Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks. She asked if this was long enough. That's the question. I think it is therefore a good thing that the legislative proposal also states that it is possible to extend it until 1 December at the latest. By then, we'll see what situation we're in. If anything else is needed, this can no longer be done with an extension in this law, but a new legislative proposal must be put in place. This means that before the end of May we will consider extending this emergency act. If something had to be done after the end of this emergency law, it would mean that the cabinet would have to come up with a proposal again in the autumn. That's how it's done. The meeting with the Authority is ongoing, and also with Aedes. We really look together at what is possible to apply customization for people who come into payment problems. Part of these calls is anticipating the possibilities for temporary rental discounts for people who have come into trouble in the context of corona. I would also like to point out that this also has a bearing on what I am going to say later, and that I have said from the Ronnes motion adopted in the House of Representatives, which asks for a specific look at tenants who have been in trouble because of the crisis, that it is very useful to do so. I'm going to inform the House of Representatives, and I'd like to let the First Chamber know the same thing. Mrs De Boer asked if there are any other rules that hinder customization. What about the temporary rent discount? I'm working on the bill on rent and income limits, with the intention of removing the obstacles to temporarily giving a rent discount. So I'm working really hard on that. I hope you can get that to the Chamber very soon. I am always open to other signals about other obstacles that might exist. Once again, the discussion is under way and the law is in the process, and will follow as soon as possible. Mr Crone said that this law seems to focus on the landlords and less on the tenants. In this law tenant and landlord have to do something, but it is intended for the tenant, because it is the tenant who does not have the opportunity, given the crisis, to look at something else and who gets the opportunity to extend. It is, of course, about those who consciously and perhaps precisely because they were looking for it, have concluded a temporary lease. It is about 20,000 contracts in the Netherlands, and that is also a limited part. Because not everyone has a contract that ends now. But for those tenants this of course offers a solution, and also for the landlords. If landlord and tenant agree, it is an easy way to solve a temporary problem. I'll be back later to talk about the freezing. I have already spoken about the extension that Mr Kox mentioned. I also mentioned the Authority. I would like to conclude with the motion. I begin by saying that I fully understand the concern that I am experiencing, also from the interrupting debate just now. How do we make sure that we help certain tenants who are really in trouble and that the landlord is actually going to do so? I have just said that the cabinet does this primarily by focusing on people's incomes and by ensuring that there are specific solutions to specific problems. Therefore, customization is ensured: on the income side repair, and the rent payment can of course always be used in the event of a reduction in income. This approach means that, if it is right, the tenants who really get into trouble will also be helped, for example because they don't get a rent increase. On balance, it could amount to that. I just mentioned the Ronnes motion, which says: look specifically at the people who are in trouble. That's what we're gonna do: specific groups. When I listen to it like that, I think: we are basically in total agreement. The only thing I would like to stress is that if Mr Kox wants a stop on the rent for all tenants in the social and the free sector, that can never be his intention. Because then he would also want to introduce a rental stop for people who have a more than generous income, who would be able to pay fine. I can't imagine that's the point. I see Mr Kox standing at the interrupting microphone, so perhaps he will clarify that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u36	I see him, too. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u37	That's the idea, isn't it? We are repeatedly reminded by the government that it is not possible at this time to opt for very specific tailor-made solutions and that we therefore opt for generic solutions. This is also a generic solution. It's not about this being our rental policy for the next few years. It is proposed that the Minister should find out whether a temporary rental stop can be achieved, including in the free sector. I find it too easy for the Minister to say: so are people with high incomes and large houses. The Minister also knows that a significant part of the free sector is now being hired by people who should actually be in a social housing unit, but who cannot get into it and who are now paying blue to private landlords. In my first term, I said that half of the Dutch tenants, according to the Nibud, have problems to have sufficient buffer to pay for the basic services. Customization is good when you're talking about very small groups. But if, according to the Nibud, 800,000 tenants are already in trouble and half of the tenants do not have sufficient buffers, then in this crisis we should not go for customization but for a generic solution. That is the intention of the motion. That was clear in the House of Representatives and that is clear here. It is nice that we agree that tenants can get into trouble and that we have to do something about it, but it seems too complicated to do it through a customised route at this time, where housing corporations and landlords are overloaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u38	Mr Kox explains his motion by saying: I am indeed talking about the whole line, so generic for everything tenants, including those on high incomes, who can also rent and who could best spare. I really want to find a way. Again, I totally agree with anyone who has concerns about tenants who are really getting into trouble. I know the Nibud's numbers. Although they have improved compared to the figures quoted by Kox and others, I know that it is still very tight for a substantial number of households. This crisis could just mean it's going over the edge, and I don't want that. I really want to do everything in my power to prevent that, but I wonder if a generic rental stop doesn't miss its goal. We need to jump in and jump in in all kinds of ways. The better you focus that on the people who really need it, and therefore not generic, also for the people who don't need it, the better that seems to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u39	Mr Kox has a short question. I'll give you a second term later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u40	It is a bit like the Minister for Social Affairs said: we are currently taking stupid measures, generic measures, which we would prefer to take specifically. But it is not time to take specific measures at the moment, because who is to implement them and how is to implement them? Sometimes you have to choose the model that is available and that is a generic scheme. That was the idea in the Lower House of a large part of the political groups there and that is the idea in this Chamber. I hope that the Minister will listen to that part of Parliament and could also say: okay, you take over many of our ideas; I am willing to take over this idea from other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u41	No. I can very well imagine that Koolmees said that way, but the other side of that reasoning is: precisely because we are so heavily and generic on the income side, it does not make sense to do so on the rental side in the same generic way. The supplement to income support is that you look at specific groups on the rental side. For now. I am talking about this period of time, when we do that. In the event of a long recession, a crisis-like situation and a fall in income, you must, of course, look again. By the way, the motion is slightly different from the motion that was in the Lower House. Once again, we have come a long way to see each other when it comes to the people who really need it, but the explanation of the generic character - for everything and everyone in the social sector and the free sector - makes it very difficult, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u42	I understand the Minister is wondering if she's going to help too many people who don't need it. Apart from what Mr Kox said about this, we are not helping anyone because Booking.com is flying out of the band, so to speak. So if you want to set a rental limit, I don't know about it, but the Nibud, for example, say: over €1,500 I don't freeze. Well, at least we're talking about the group we're talking about. Because, of course, it is mainly those people who are not covered by generic provisions: both partners, men and women and so on, have had a flex contract, are now both unemployed and no longer have contracts. They're not getting anything yet. They have to go to the municipality's assistance. Of course, they can't pay the €700, €800, €1,100 they're paying now, and then another 5% on top of it. I know these examples literally from the nearest area. Those people have been helped, even with only a six-month delay. So we have all kinds of options. I understand that you still want to narrow it down a little bit, but you're not going to say I can help 80%, but because 20% doesn't need it, I'm going to do the 80%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u43	Your question is clear, Mr. Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u44	I'm actually looking for a way to help that 20%. Or am I saying it wrong? I mean, that 80%, if it were 80%. Suppose it's 80%, I don't think so, but okay, just for the sake or arguments, I want to help those people, but I do not want to help that 20%. That's the difference. Supporting people's incomes is just a big bazooka, where you don't have too much time to look exactly. Because the people who work at Booking.com can also have income losses. We'll compensate for that. Again, it's about the here and now and the short term. But if you did this now, you'd ask all the landlords to fund this, because that's where it comes from, of course. It's not money I transfer; it's money that landlords don't get anymore. We also ask the same landlords to provide sufficient housing in the social sector. This will be very difficult when they no longer have the space to invest in building new homes. So it also has another side, I just want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u45	Mr Crone, one short supplementary question. There's gonna be a second term later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u46	That's why it's the last attempt. I would like to take part in this and the House of Representatives probably also consider the question: which group should we not help? But if we do find out here that we have been doing this for years, and that 80% is in trouble, I would say: take that 20% for granted or take a limit above which the rent freeze does not have to be. I say €1,500 because I don't know about it, but at least we'll reach the middle groups that aren't in the social sector either, because there are agreements to be made there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u47	Following on from what Mr Crone says, I have a question for the Minister and perhaps Mr Kox. We talked about possibilities, we talked about obligations, but I have a question about that emergency measure. Does an emergency measure always have to be generic? Or can an emergency mat rule also have the effect of making a distinction? I think that is an important question in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u48	I don't think an emergency measure should always be generic. An emergency measure can also be very specific. But I think we are now trying to point out exactly what the intention of the proposers is. I was actually looking for space. Mr Crone and I can, of course, discuss whether it is indeed 80% of the people. The Ronnes motion, for example, also calls for a precise analysis of all this. Once again, if it is aimed at people who actually get into trouble, I am totally on the side of those who want to. The research will therefore show what numbers we are talking about. Then you can focus it specifically on that group, even if it is large; that could be large numbers, but I don't know exactly at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u49	The Minister had just worried about housing corporations, which therefore have less income and can invest less. In this house, I have pointed out that the government itself can make a huge contribution to this by not applying the landlord's tax. There is another motion on this above the market. But your understanding that the corporations are very disadvantaged by this rent freeze is, of course, also covered in the government's other arrangement. Would you mind reflecting on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u50	Sure. In September, at Prinsjesdag, it was announced that through the landlord's tax we will stimulate the construction of new homes by the housing corporations. They can get a discount on the landlord's tax if they quickly build new buildings in the social sector. So that's what we're looking at. That's the famous 1 billion. That's all set in motion. The landlord's tax and the possibility of a discount to encourage new construction have already been fully deployed. We have also done the same for investments in sustainability. So I realize that very well. The landlord's tax is here. There is a discount for housing corporations that want to participate and who want to build and make it more sustainable. The indicative spending space of housing corporations is sufficient to meet their three tasks: ensuring low, affordable rents, new construction and sustainability. So that space is enough. But the moment you take a bite out of that because of a measure like a total freeze of the rents across the board, you will of course remove an important element. According to the estimates, this could mean that up to 30 000 to nearly 60 000 new buildings will not be built in the social sector. I think that's a hell of a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u51	I believe that what the motion is asking for, a generic rental stop, is technically quite easy to achieve. On the other hand, a specific rental stop of 85%, 80%, 75% or any percentage of rent is very difficult to achieve. My question a is whether the Minister agrees with that and, if so, whether she can simply come to the conclusion that there will only be a generic rental stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u52	I can't say that I agree with you. I have just argued that tailor-made work is already happening and that people are really looking for the people who are in trouble. It's already happening. That's already happening. I have also argued that I think it is important to achieve this for those groups, even if it has to be done by law in one way or another. So I think it can happen in a targeted way. I only said in the small debate with Mr Crone that, of course, we should look very closely at each other when he says that it is 80%. But I do not think that in itself is an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u53	The authors of this motion see precisely that this specific tailor-made approach is far from being sufficiently effective. That's why they're asking for such a generic measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u54	Strictly speaking, the motion, I think, asks to see if it is possible. In replying to your Chamber's questions, I outlined what I am doing, and that is exactly what I am doing. In this exceptional situation, I allow measures that should not normally be taken by housing corporations. I have also just referred, in response to Mrs De Boer, to the bill on rent and income limits, which removes obstacles for landlords to apply temporary rental discounts. So I think there are several possibilities to actually reach that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your speech. You're at the end of your speech, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u56	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u57	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to be very brief, because sometimes life is just a choice. It's a choice: do I do the right thing, or do I wait for the better? And we don't have much time to wait for the better. Mr Koolmees said the same thing. There will appear to have been billions too many spent in a few months and even weeks. And I think it's been clear for years that there is a shortage and that the market doesn't work here, because people can't easily find another, a cheaper or an affordable house. I see too many people turning in. These are precisely the young people, who are already in flex contracts, but who also supply a lot of workers. They or their partner lose their jobs or part of their jobs. So I would say, Minister, don't let the better be the enemy of the good. Don't take too long to investigate, because we know. Nor does it make sense to note in September that the rents should have been frozen in July. It's not so bad for the landlords structurally, because that increase will come sometime. It is therefore a temporary measure of perhaps six months. That's temporary; this isn't about structural. The motion also says it's temporary. Sometimes it's a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr Crone. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for her answers. We don't do a contest here who takes the best for the tenants. We live in times when the government should be there for all of us, and so should parliament. But then we will have to make a decision, as Mr Crone said. And at this point, there is a strange contradiction. An hour and a half ago we heard: fine, but we now have to act generically to have effect; we live in an emergency and the coronavirus doesn't wait either. Then there is a proposal from a large part of the Parliament for a also generic regulation. It is indeed not the best thing under other circumstances we would probably not agree on either, but this measure has immediate effect and is feasible. That is why I find the Minister's statement that she will see what she can do too lean. I hear her saying she doesn't like it generically. Then I think the Chamber should take a decision on that. If the House adopts the motion, I assume that the Minister will be working on it with full speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u61	Mr Crone just noted that the applicants were asking for a temporary rental stop. Now, at least the majority of this Chamber, we place the Minister with an impossible task. In fact, the House of Representatives has said 'not to implement', and this Chamber seems to say, when I see the signature, 'execute' to the Minister. Which one of the two rooms is she the sweetest? It's almost like that. But in the context of the compromise, I would like to make the following point. We adopt a lot of legislation, which you always refer to, which is in two or three months' time. We have done this just for example around covid et cetera and we will do that a number of times later. Does that mean that you are satisfied when the Minister says that she is going to see if she can make a temporary rental stop for two or three months and then apply the old regime? Are the petitioners satisfied with the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u62	First things first. First, this Chamber is going to say what it thinks should be done. After that, the Minister will show what she's going to do with it. I would also point out to Mr Van der Burg that he has not been here that long, but he has been involved in politics for a very long time. We once had the French Weekers case here. As Secretary of State, he said that if you adopt this motion, I cannot carry it out, because the House of Representatives has not adopted it. That's when we had some great moments here. Then, on behalf of all my fellow group chairmen, I proposed that we bring in the Prime Minister. It is true that this Chamber has a relationship with the government. If this Chamber says it wants it to happen like this, then a government that is well-versed with Parliament is obliged to implement that motion. So we've had that before. Then that's part of the living law of the state. I'll be able to tell you where I'm gonna find it. Frans Weekers then said that he had understood and that he would no longer say that he could not carry out a motion from this Chamber because a similar motion had not been adopted elsewhere, so that has already been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mr Kox is right that he belongs to the mastodons of the First Chamber and that I am only a young man in this Chamber. In fact, I haven't even made my maiden speech yet. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is a difference between an amendment and a motion, which is only a question from us to the Minister. She does have a choice not to make a motion. I refer to the famous moment with Gerrit Zalm and the text 'I am not carrying out this motion'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u64	That was not a highlight in parliamentary democracy, as we all know. Salmon itself has also had its doubts about this. By the way, this was a motion in the Lower House. The operative part of this motion is similar to a motion in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u65	Mr Crone has another question for Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u66	Do you mind if I correct first? I was there when Mr. Salmon said that. That was not a political dédain for parliament. The sound system went out at night, just before the recess, and he had to yell, because the sound system didn't work: "I'm not running it." A minister can say more often that he doesn't execute it. That has then been the subject of a debate. I am defending Minister Zalm here, but certainly not on that point. Through the chairman I have the following question to Mr Kox, but also to himself. Surely it is too crazy for us to say here that the Minister is not allowed to carry out something we want because the House of Representatives rejected it? So we must never again reject a law that she has passed. Mr President, I would like to ask you: that is not our position, is it? We are allowed to reject or take over everything here, aren't we? Otherwise, we will have to lift ourselves. I would ask Mr van der Burg to take back those words. Surely you can find something other than the Lower House as a person?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u67	You are interrupting Mr Kox, so I would like to put the question to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u68	I tried to pull you into battle, because it's about the position of the Chamber. In that sense, I'm serious. Isn't it weird when we say to each other that we shouldn't ask the Minister, because the House of Representatives banned us from doing so? That would be crazy. Then we'll have to lift ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u69	I am confident that the Minister, if this Chamber makes a ruling, will act in good conscience and will try to put the Chamber's ruling into practice. Then she comes back with that and we can talk about that. Then the House of Representatives can also discuss it. As has been said, living state law has already taught us that it can never be so that a ruler in this Chamber says he cannot do something because the other side has forbidden it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you in a position to respond directly? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All that remains is a conclusion on what has just been exchanged and added by Members on the motion. I will leave the living state law and Gerrit Zalm to those who have just had an interrupting debate on this matter. I have made my comments on the motion. I have repeated what I also said in the House of Representatives, generic about the income side and specifically about the rent side. I understand that the proposers say that they are nevertheless looking for an emergency measure which has a generic effect. Of course, I have to wait and see what happens. The first thing I'm waiting for is for the motion to be passed. And if that were to happen... Well, "if, then" is never wise, but I think the proposers would like to know what I'm going to do. Well, then I'll take that into account in the talks with the housing corporations and the landlord's organizations, which I just mentioned, and with the other ministries. And yes, I have to come back to that. I think that is the only thing I can say about this at the moment. Again, my appeal is: give me all the space to look for the people, the tenants, who need it, without any generic measure. And if you want a generic measure, there will be all kinds of consequences. I'm going to have to deal with that, and I'm going to report to the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u72	I have one more question. Mr Kox has already pointed it out: in this house there have been a lot of great proposals, with great prosperity, about tens of billions going through. There is actually a sympathetic motion for this. The intention is well discussed. In my view, everyone in the basics agrees on what it should serve and that the definition is explanatory and enforceable. The Minister states that if this motion is adopted, it will be discussed. What is the Minister's interest in just saying: on so many big themes, with so much money, have we agreed in this house with coalition and opposition; I just embrace this, I'm going to work on it and you'll hear from me? That's not really a problem, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u73	First of all, of course, all the appreciation for the way in which we work together and the way in which the Lower House and the Upper House are dealing with the crisis, and for the measures. And I also believe and hope that the temporary law on temporary contracts, which we are discussing here, can count on a large majority in this house. I am extremely grateful for that. What prevents me from being as generous as you are now suggesting is that I think I should be consistent. I have actually had the same debate on this in the House of Representatives. I argued the same thing there. That is the position of the cabinet. So again, I've tried to change it with a lot of warm words at the point where we all agree. So that common ground is there, and I actually named it. But it would not be consistent, given the debate that took place only a few days ago in the House of Representatives, to depart from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u74	Then I have one final question, actually. What is the final appreciation of that motion? Is that "judge chamber" or is that "dissuade"? Because that "judgement chamber" could leave you like that, as a gesture or a political statement. After all, there are two houses, and that's what this one is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u75	That's a complicated one. Maybe I'm doing something I can't do right now, and then I'll hear it from the chairman. I gave an explanation to the motion, but the author of the motion opposed this explanation. The author of the motion, therefore, made the motion more specific in the debate. That is, of course, part of the Acts, and thus part of how the motion is intended. And that explanation is: it is meant as a generic measure, for all tenants. That is what I would like to say. Look, I also see that this motion may reach a majority. So I respect the submission, I respect the outcome of the votes, but on that particular point of generic effect, I must be consistent with what I said in the House of Representatives. That is not the choice made by the cabinet, and therefore I cannot but be consistent on that point and say: I am not suggesting that part. And the motion is about that. Once again, with all due respect for what this Chamber does and what the proposers intend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u76	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u77	I have come to the conclusion of this bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote directly on the bill today at the end of this sitting. I also propose that we vote on the motion for a resolution at the next sitting. I assume that Mr Kox would now like to make a point of order. Of course, he will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because it is not yet certain that we will meet next week, because we are already sure that we will not meet the following week, and because it is certain that the date of the rent increase is 1 July, we will get ourselves and also the Minister, who will have to get to work when the motion is adopted, into trouble. So, in this particular case, I would ask you to vote on the motion this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u79	That is an order proposed by Mr Kox. His proposal is to vote on the motion immediately tonight. I'll see if there's any broad support for that in the Chamber. I see everyone nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u80	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-21-eerstekamer-8.u81	Mr. Crone, one moment. I'm just dealing with an order proposal. I see that none of the groups oppose this. There is therefore unanimous support for this order proposal. In doing so, the order proposal has also been accepted by the Chamber. The vote on the motion under letter D (35431) will therefore be taken immediately this evening, in principle after the vote on the legislative proposal. Has this also met Mr Crone's wishes? That's the case. I shall now suspend the sitting for ten minutes in connection with an extra cleaning round and awaiting the arrival of the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
