ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u1	Good evening. The next item is the VAO Personnel Defence. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Defence. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Karabulut. It speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u2	Mr. Chairman. When people get sick of working with toxic substances in the Defense Department and apologize for failing to take care of them, they should not be faced with a long bureaucratic journey and a settlement that they cannot even make use of. There's gotta be another way. That's why I have the next, somewhat technical motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an epidemiological investigation into all causes of toxic substance exposure at the POMS depots is not in the RIVM's view feasible;]] [[noting that RIVM indicates that it is impossible to exclude all diseases arising from working with chromium-6 and other toxic substances as a cause of the many conditions suffered by POMS workers and other personnel of Defence;]] [[noting that the existing injury compensation scheme for POMS workers is based on 100% proven causality between working with chromium-6 and a number of diseases, as this scheme is based on demonstrable evidence;]] [[noting that there are also toxic substances such as chromium-6 and HDI/CARC elsewhere in the Defense Department, but that there is no regulation for the sick workers of the Air Force, the Army and the Navy;]] [[noting that all workers at the Dutch Railways in Tilburg who worked with chromium-6 were entitled to compensation for having been or may have been in contact with chromium-6;]] [[Considers that the condition of plausibility of common signs of disease among the POMS workers and among other Defence personnel is more appropriate to their situation than is currently the case, now that the RIVM finds that it is not possible to investigate all signs of disease;]] [[further considers that this unequal situation between Tilburg personnel and Defence personnel is unfair;]] [[Noting that the Heerts Committee in the Dust for Thought Report notes that toxic substances such as chromium-6 and CARC are also present in other sectors of society and that the principle of plausibility should apply in the recognition of compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to accept plausibility as a condition for the award of diseases by working with chromium-6 and thereby to increase the likelihood that a larger group of POMS workers and other Defence personnel will be eligible for compensation and to establish a generous generic compensation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Kerstens and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u3	Then I have a second, very short motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u4	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u5	Shall I just make the request, then, conveniently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u6	Yeah, if you can. I can't, I hear. It has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u7	I'm going as a tierelier, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that large groups of Petty Officers are struggling to meet the rising cost of living of their long-standing modest salary;]] [[Considering that the policy of the Ministry of Defence requires staff to stand at one level;]] [[noting that the new remuneration system cannot continue with effect from 1 July 2020;]] [[considers that the policy of binding premiums should not be applied at random;]] [[also considers that Petty Officers are the backbone of Defence personnel;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with representatives of interests, to make it possible for all NCOs to benefit as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Kerstens and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the way in which this year, with all the limitations, the Veterans' Day has been implemented. It's good to consciously reflect on our veterans and give them all the respect. Defense-cao negotiations broke this afternoon and there seems to be little movement in them. 1 July 2020 was the deadline. That's tomorrow. The Secretary of State will have to move to live up to her end of the bargain. The PvdA will therefore table a motion on this matter on our behalf. I also have two motions for resolutions on last week's debate. We have seen during the corona crisis that the need and strength of the logistical and medical support of the Defense Department are of great value. The Inspector of Military Health now calls the resources totally inadequate. This calls for reinforcement as far as GroenLinks is concerned. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, during the Corona crisis, it proved to be of great added value that Defence can support the national care chain by organising logistics, the deployment of military medical personnel and the delivery of medical supplies from existing stocks;]] [[calls on the Government to take a well-founded decision on whether or not to increase the medical staff of Defence and acquire supplies of medical goods in order to support civilian care in the future, in the context of the announced review of the Defence Note this autumn,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u9	An important concern: the support from the Defense Department and the additional care staff. I am glad that Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen is now saying that to the cabinet. Does Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen therefore think that the money should perhaps come from care towards the Defense Department in order to give the backbone of care an extra boost to the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u10	I don't think there's any money to go from care, because care is already running out of money right now. In this respect, money should perhaps be shifted or perhaps accompanied by a good proposal in the review of this part of the defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u11	But then you think the DOD has enough money?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u12	I'm not saying that. If you've listened carefully, I've said no money from the Department of Defense. They're already short on money. But at the moment in the review of defence, I think there is a good proposal where there might be room for extra money on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u13	Thank you. You have another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u14	Finally, I have a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the granting of a benefit under the Defence Payment Scheme for Exposure to chromium-6 and CARC distinguishes between cancers in the digestive system, with the result that victims with stomach cancer and larynx cancer receive compensation and victims of oral cavity cancer and thin bowel cancer do not;]] [[noting that this distinction is based on currently available scientific research, and that Defence indicates that it will follow new developments in science;]] [[Considers that due to the fact that Defence has deliberately exposed its employees to substances which it knew were harmful to health, there is a duty on Defence to investigate not only passively but also actively the consequences;]] [[calls on the Government to finance new scientific research for diseases that are common among Defence personnel exposed to chromium-6 and CARC, and which are currently not yet adequately researched to establish a link with chromium-6 and CARC,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u15	I saw I was 29 seconds past my time. Mr. Chairman. In the debate, I quoted the commander-general of the armed forces, who stated in his annual report that the men and women of the Defence Department doubt whether they really stand on one, the term used so often. It seems as if they know their organization well, because this afternoon the negotiations with the unions collapsed to create a new job and reward building that should make Defence a more attractive employer. That is a shame, because instead of the nice step towards that more attractive job and reward building that would be set up tomorrow, there is a conflict, yet another conflict. I have a motion to urge the Secretary of State and the Minister to come to good agreements quickly. I think they have every interest in that themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a previous agreement on terms and conditions of employment between Defence and Trade Unions has agreed to establish a new office and remuneration building that will make Defence a more attractive employer by 1 July 2020 and that this is necessary in view of persistent staff shortages and competition in the labour market;]] [[noting that there has been a delay in their preparation;]] [[calls on the Government to reserve sufficient resources, to resume consultations with trade unions and to establish a new office and remuneration building for this year's budget, in accordance with the agreements referred to above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Karabulut, Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u16	Of course, that sounds very sympathetic. It's a nice gesture, but there's no cover under it. We usually do that with an amendment. Butter with the fish, huh? Then the Labour Party delivers money to what it asks. She's not doing that right now. I am very curious to know where Mr Kerstens gets that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u17	I was just assuming that Mr Bosman would ask me to put his name under it, because it is such a sympathetic proposal. That money's here. At least I assume that that money was there at the time that Defence made the agreements with trade unions to take the first step on 1 July towards that more attractive job and reward building that Defence really needs. So I don't have to provide cover with that right now. That deal was made by the Defense Department itself in the final agreement on terms and conditions of employment. It just says in black and white that there would be a new pay system. There has been more than one exchange in this Chamber that will be a system that makes Defence a more attractive employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u18	I see that we are now entering into a negotiation as a Chamber which is actually between employer and employee. In fact, I understand there's still gonna be arbitration. Is it not a bit of a special position if we are going to get into something here and, in my opinion, Mr Kerstens knows the whip of the trade unions sitting in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u19	What I wouldn't want is... well, actually, I would, but what I can't do is sit at that table and make those appointments. That's up to the employer, Defense, and the unions. I think it is a responsibility of us here in the Chamber, because we are talking in every debate on defence about the acute shortage of personnel and the need to put the people of defence really together, and we agree that the office and remuneration building can play an important role in this. When I look at it and when my colleagues see that it is going badly, despite the agreements that have been made, we find it our responsibility to interfere, not at that table, but here in this Chamber, wherever it belongs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u20	Thank you. You were... Oh, there's another question from Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u21	I would like to ask Mr Kerstens whether he is also aware that Mr Bosman is at the front when it comes to billions for larger weapons, but that he is actually a little on the brake when it comes to staff first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u22	Yeah, I'm a little disappointed in him, 'cause I know he's a former D.O.D. employee, and he's very high on the D.O.D.'s. That is why I invite him to think about how we can make this beautiful appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u23	Yes, Mr. Bosman, you can't leave that unsaid. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u24	No, because I'm using all that money that's available in the budgets. All of that is earmarked and all of that is available. I'm not asking for extra money or special money. That money's here. And the staff is also asking for new equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u25	This wasn't a question to me. I have indicated that this money should be there, because otherwise the DOD would not have made the arrangements. What's lacking is the execution. I have a second motion. It has something to do with Veteran Day, last Saturday. Unfortunately, it was less large than we are used to and all would like: no défile, no flyby, no applause and no big meeting on the Malieveld. I have a motion for the Minister. I hope she'll listen to it nicely. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Veterans' Day this year was much smaller than previous years because of COVID-19;]] [[Whereas, as a result, the funds earmarked for this purpose are under-utilised;]] [[calls on the Government to find a solution for the remaining funds for our veterans, for example by providing a financial contribution to veterans' meeting centres which have been severely affected by the restrictive measures imposed by COVID-19 in recent months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u26	Then I have a brief final comment, and I hope the Minister has heard me. I have mentioned an example to which that money could be spent. If the Minister comes to an at least as good a goal in consultation with the veterans, that is fine as far as I am concerned. I am only concerned that this money does not leak into the budget, but somehow benefits the veterans in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then there's one final comment. We all know that there have been a lot of investigations into how these negotiations are going on in the Defense Department. I'm getting more and more curious about the conclusions of those investigations. Maybe we can do something with that from our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u27	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA. One moment, Mr. Van Helvert, there's still a brush.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u28	Thank you, Madam President. A very nice motion by Mr Kerstens, which we would like to take part in. We have also talked about the new wage building and the negotiations in general. Unfortunately, they collapsed. I have to say that at the CDA, we do suck at that, because we consider security, a good wage and a good salary, very important for the Defense Department. Now the Minister and the Secretary of State think that I do not doubt that too, and yet it has gone wrong. In fact, we would have liked to see work already being done on remuneration and salaries in terms of post rather than grade. Because if someone is going to give me just one example; there may also be more people in the medical or ICT field who have a position at a very high level and pay only according to grade, they will not ultimately choose the best people for Defence. So the function must also be important. That is not going to happen now; that too is not going to happen. I would, of course, like to get a response right now, but I would also like to have a written response from the Minister and the Secretary of State on how these negotiations are going to continue. Because that's the most important thing. Because of course it is very difficult to say which motions we should table, as long as we do not know exactly what has gone wrong and how the ministry continues to do so. Another point we have discussed is the RVU levy. That problem has to be solved, but there is a disagreement between the Defense and the Treasury. What's really uncomfortable is that that's where the DOD's money has to go. Mr Bosman will also discuss this further. I support the motion he has tabled on this subject and I wholeheartedly endorse it on behalf of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u29	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD. You wait neatly until you can stand behind the speaker chair. It's still getting used to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u30	Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation Staff we certainly talked about the RVU levy and its dynamics. It's been a matter of discussion for years. I can quote the Eijsink motion, which has already been discussed and which has also been asked to take a look at the special position of the military. That's actually the essence. The military has a special position in our society, but also in funding and salaries. That's what we have to name and keep naming. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council,]] [[having regard to the new pension legislation;]] [[Considering the special position of the military;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation by an independent party to consider how the early retirement scheme of military personnel, in relation to the special position of the military, fits into the financial laws and regulations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bosman, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u31	With the pension schemes that have been adapted and all the innovations that are going on, it is still important to see how we can guarantee the special position of the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u32	Thank you. I call Mr Krol on behalf of the Krol/Van Kooten-Arissen Group. You stroll so nicely towards microphone, Mr. Krol, but it's clean by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u33	Your concern is worthy of you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. I am very glad that many of my colleagues are so concerned about the reward of military personnel, which is often undervalued. I hope that those motions will be given a Chamber's ruling, but if that is not the case, then I have a motion here that goes a little less far. Under this motion are three K's; after me are the colleagues Christmas and Karabulut. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are high demands on military personnel and the work is demanding;]] [[whereas many military personnel are resigning because of another job with a higher salary;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal to bring the military pay house more into line with wages in similar positions in other sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Kerstens and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u34	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen wishes to endorse my two motions. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u35	Okay. That is an amendment to the motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Karabulut on documents Nos. 74 and 75. These are co-signed by the member Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. We changed this right away. As I said, this puts us at the end of the first term of office. The rulers haven't gotten the motions yet, so I'm suspending for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u36	I give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make the assessment of the motions on the documents Nos. 76 and 79 on my behalf. I would like to make one point which has been raised by a number of Members of the Chamber: the appreciation for the Veterans' Day, which we have done in this other form. There has been an enormous amount of commitment by the Veterans Day National Committee, with all the employees of Defense and with all the orchestras that were present with videos in one way or another. So last Saturday, despite the corona crisis, one could still in a very beautiful and moving way, I found myself, conveying the recognition and appreciation for our veterans. Even though it was different, from the reactions I got and the conversations I had with a lot of people, I noticed that it was very important that we did so in this form. That brings me to the Veterans' Day motion. 79, by Mr Kerstens. We have also talked about this in the AO. Mr Kerstens raised this point there. He asked: did you hear correctly that it says "for example"? I heard right, Mr. Christmas. I understand that, too. I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I'll talk to veterans' organizations, because I really want to look at a meaningful use. It is not about huge amounts, but I agree that we need to invest what is left in a good way. I explained that in the debate. It is not the case that the national committee only organises Veterans Day, but also Veteran in the Class, Carnation concerts and other things. I heard the word "for example" right. I will commit myself to appropriate spending. I will raise this in the conversation with the veterans' organizations. I also made an appointment with the Veterans Platform. I'll take that right away. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion-Van den Nieuwenhuijzen c.s. in piece No. 76. What I think is important and what also came out well in general consultation is that there is a great deal of appreciation for the way in which Defence in this case or the civilian authority has done so, because we have done some of this or have supported hospitals in the context of the corona crisis. If something happens again, we will, of course, do the same. Our people have proven to be there when needed, and that's a big good. That's what we were talking about in the talks. I'm sure I'll learn from that. That was also a question from Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, also looking at the Defence Vision. This applies both to the use of medical personnel and to the availability of strategic stocks and capacities. The latter will have to do in a broader sense, by the way, is the idea. When I look at the operative part, I can also leave the judgment to the Chamber. We'll look into that. We're definitely looking at that. If you tilt to main task 1 and main task 3 is main task 3, then national operations and support are likely to require other supplies. We have also discussed with colleagues in a European context that we probably need more. For example, defence is also a buyer of personal protective equipment for the entire Empire. A request has also been made by Mr Van Rijn to consider the question of what iron stocks should be available from the Defence Department, because that is more our task. Mr Bosman is right: of course, this must also be partly paid by VWS. That's what we need to look at together. But I leave the judgment to the Chamber. We will also take the points of the igk with us at this point. Both are therefore subject to judgement, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u38	Thank you. If you'll just wait a moment... There's a little cleaning going on. Then the Secretary of State for Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u39	Thank you very much. If the microphone can get a little higher, that would be very nice. Yeah, all right. Mr. Chairman. A lot of motions have been tabled. Given the time, I think it's okay to go through that. I'll start with the motion in part No. 74 by Mrs Karabulut, and also by Mr Kerstens and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, I understand. It's a pretty extensive motion. In the context of the recitals and observations made, I think it is important that the people who have worked in the non-POMS locations now or in the past should also be able to rely on the coulance regime set up by my predecessor, then Minister Hennis. So there's an arrangement, but it's about the coulance scheme. On behalf of the Joint Committee, RIVM has also been really asked to complete this year's research on non-POMS sites as a matter of urgency, because we think it is important to give that clarity. I would also like to take up your call in general consultation to engage in a joint discussion with employees who do not feel represented by the trade unions. You also refer to the Heerts Committee. The cabinet would like to come forward with a cabinet response to the Heerts Committee before the recess, even if we do not know if we can make it through. As a result of the research in Tilburg, he has looked at how to facilitate things and how to design clear regulations, national and government-wide, but perhaps in the future also with employers. The Heerts Committee is talking about plausibility, but it is still talking in its report about objective criteria that have been scientifically established. There must therefore be a relationship between the disease and the work carried out. But we will come up with an appreciation of the Heerts Committee's report. For this reason, I advise against this motion. I'd like to take a look at it. I have also said this in a commitment to Mr Kerstens, to his question as to what the Heerts Committee means for the regulation we have adopted together with the trade unions. But I don't want to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u40	I understand that the Secretary of State wishes to investigate a number of other issues, to engage in discussions and to appreciate the Heerts Committee. Would it help if I held the motion for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u41	That might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u42	Then I'd like to hold the motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u43	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motion (35300-X, No. 74). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u45	Then the motion to part No. 75 by Mrs Karabulut, Mr Kerstens and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. When it comes to your request to us, it is good to note that the current wage building is based on seniority. We had a discussion on this with Mr Krol. That is the so-called need principle: the older you get, the more needs you have and so you are entitled to more salary. That's not like this anymore. So we recognize that there is an imbalance in our current pay structure. That is also one of the reasons why we want to change it. Also because we no longer have a final wage system where the current wage structure fits very well but has switched to a middle wage system. You want everyone to have a good retirement. That really is a subject to discuss at the table with the trade unions. I shall now turn to the debate we are having at the table. A number of Members have also asked for this. But precisely in order to ensure that our people do not lose their salaries, we have decided to continue the temporary allowance for the petty officers, who will earn them more salary, pending further consultation with the trade unions. So we will certainly take this up, but I really think this is something for the discussion at the table with the trade unions. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u46	The reason for this is, of course, that from the top a number of staff officers would receive a reward. So I'm fine with the Secretary of State getting everyone an appropriate reward and not one group of, I think, eight people are and the rest aren't. That is exactly what this motion calls for. Would the Secretary of State therefore undertake that this bonus or special reward, under whatever arrangement the Defence Summit intends to do, will not continue and that, if I understand it, it will carry out this motion? Then it would be in support of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u47	On the specific case we have dealt with in general consultation, I have gone into it. Every commander is now free to reward someone more individually. I would like to maintain this principle, particularly in the context of the broad appeal in this Chamber, namely 'give the commander more powers and space'. It's possible. That was used in this case. In addition, binding premiums or retention premiums can be awarded when it comes to specific categories or specific people you would like to keep. I wasn't going to step down from that. I would simply like to maintain that possibility, and so would our staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u48	That is not what the staff want, at least the staff on the work floor, at all. They have been forced to survive on a rather poor salary for years. And then there is indeed an exception, but it is random. The staff doesn't want that at all. So I understand that the Secretary of State is dissuading this motion because she simply wants to continue with this arbitrary policy, when she does not even come out with the unions from that consultation and so the other officers have checked it out. That seems very unfair to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u49	Also for other petty officers, men and officers there is simply the possibility that the commander will grant this. I'd like to maintain that possibility. I see that a lot of people appreciate that, because they see that there is appreciation for their individual commitment. That possibility must remain. I'd like to go to the motion on part number one. 77 by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen together with Mr Kerstens and Mrs Karabulut. We have also discussed this with each other in general consultation. RIVM is now conducting research into the exposure to chromium-6. In which function groups did that occur and what disease signs do that give? I think it's a good thing that research was funded by the Defense Department. So the discussion is not about funding, but it is about the fact that RIVM cannot determine whether there is currently insufficient scientific evidence to show, for example, the example of larynx cancer that you mention in your motion, but you are also drawing it more broadly. This has nothing to do with the lack of scientific research. Scientific research has been done, but no or insufficient evidence has been found for that relationship. I have also said in general consultation that we periodically ask RIVM to update all international and national scientific research in the field of chromium-6, and whether or not certain diseases, continuously so that we can process them. We also have the research on non-POMS locations. I just gave that to Mrs. Karabulut. That also runs until the end of the year. We also want to offer a periodic medical consultation via the VUmc. Of course, there may also be signs of disease, of which we will then say: this requires further scientific research. So it is not a question of not wanting to finance or not wanting to implement. It was executed, but no evidence was found. That's why I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u50	In the RIVM study and in the results there are a number of remarkable things, specifically about thin bowel cancer. One is that there are only three meta-studies and therefore they cannot judge. But it also says that in animal studies it is likely that there is indeed a relationship. In Table 2, they talk about an indication of cancer. They also talk about an increased number of tumours in mice in the same study. That is why I specifically ask for further research into the thin intestinal tract, because it is clear that there are indications that there are additional tumours due to chromium-6. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u51	You can see in the same annex that the RIVM has looked very wide. In fact, following all the questions we've been asked by former POMS employees, we've been looking at what diseases they say are caused by chromium-6. They will also check whether, in current international scientific research, there is evidence of this, not only in animals, but also in humans. Can you find that? That's what they keep doing. If your call is whether RIVM will continue to look at this type of specific disease and whether it will also look internationally at whether there are new studies that might prove a relationship, I can say: they will. In this motion, it's about individual, separate investigation, and then I have to dissuade the motion. If you say that my explanation is exactly what you mean, then it is policy support. But I think you really mean a separate investigation, and the RIVM is not going to do that anymore, because it has already done so when it comes to the POMS locations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u52	Mr. Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u53	You do not see any possibility of taking a more active role in this, also as an employer of these people, and ask RIVM not only to look at what research has been done, but perhaps to have them specifically look at whether they can initiate new research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u54	But they did, by order of a joint committee. This has been investigated, together with the power stations but also under the leadership of an independent chairman. There was no proven scientific evidence found in that. They keep doing that. We continue to appeal to them to see if there is other independent scientific research that can prove that. But we have RIVM, as Mrs Karabulut said in her contribution, also asked for an epidemiological inquiry. That's wider than just chromium-6. In that you reason from the disease images, and then you see if that is more widely applicable to all people who have worked with it. Unfortunately, that is not possible. I would have liked that too, because then you might have been able to give a clear answer to a number of diseases. But RIVM has said, and the joint committee has accepted, that it is not possible now. If it is possible in the future, I would certainly like to do so, as I indicated in reply to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u56	Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 78 by Mr Kerstens, on behalf of Mrs Karabulut, Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen and Mr Krol. It might be good to say something about that in a general sense. We agreed in the current agreement on terms of employment that we would come up with a phased system of remuneration and a simplification of allowances. That's what we've been talking about. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach agreement on the phased system of remuneration. Last year, in response to a motion by Mr Kerstens, I also indicated that you will really have to come to a new system in a number of steps. Mr Van Helvert also asked about it. I don't see him right now, but he came up with the example to go from rank remuneration to job remuneration. That's typically one of those subjects that you have to fill out, with the power stations, to see what that means and what effect that has on everyone in their wallet. What is the specific position of the military? Some of you also mentioned the function building. What does that mean? Well, it has not been possible to reach a common consensus on this before 1 July. In the meantime, however, we have decided to extend the temporary wage allowance, which is mainly for the men and the petty officers, for the next three months, so that people do not suffer from it now, including the 3.15% increase that will start tomorrow. This is, of course, a subject of discussion between the employer and the power stations, so my call would be that we would like to have a quick consultation with them again. But they have indicated that they want to go to the arbitration committee. In that line, there's just a process, an AMvB, that prescribes what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u57	Meaning?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u58	And that means that, in advance, I will not make any substantive commitment, and that I will therefore discourage any motions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u59	Mr. Christmas. Try not to repeat the debate, because we are running very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u60	That's the last thing I'd do, Mr. Chairman. Let me ask the Secretary of State a little more clearly: why does she advise against the motion? I'm asking for sufficient resources. That makes sense to me. I call for a resumption of consultations. I believe that this is necessary, especially after possible arbitration. And I give the Secretary of State five months longer than she gave herself when she made the agreements with the unions, because there would be something on 1 July. So I'm just looking for the exact argument to discourage this motion. I don't think I'm asking anything weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u61	No, and I believe that I have also indicated to you earlier in debates that we would like to complete this process over the coming period and that it will go step by step, because you cannot do this at once. But I have also indicated to you that if one of the parties at the table says that they should go to the arbitration committee because of a dispute, then the trial will also stop. So you can call me to resume the consultation. I am also open to any consultation, but if other parties decide to go to the arbitration committee, then the procedure applies. We're gonna follow them nicely now. Then it is a bit weird to say things in advance. I think you should leave it to the parties sitting at the table. They choose to follow the procedures they want to follow. In this case, the power stations have partially indicated their intention to go to the arbitration committee. That process will take place now, so that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u62	Then it seems to me that we will be there when I add: after the meeting of the arbitration committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u63	I would really ask you to have the parties at the table first see if they can come to an agreement. There's an arbitration committee now. We're gonna see how that goes. But I do not really want to anticipate the substance of the matter, otherwise we will be negotiating through the Chamber. And I think that's kind of crazy in this situation. It is not a collective bargaining agreement either, it is an elaboration of an AV agreement on a very important subject. We'll share that with each other. Because there's just supposed to be innovation. The Minister and I have made that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u64	Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u65	I would just like to say to the Acts that I am not asking for anything in substance. I'm gonna ask you a trial question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u66	It's clear what you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u67	I think I have also given a clear answer, Mr President. I therefore also have the motion in part No. 78 discussed. And for the motion in part No. The same applies, I say to Mr Krol. In my view, these were all the motions relating to the wage building and whether or not to restart the consultation. Then the motion to part No. 80 by Mr Bosman, Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Belhaj. We have also discussed this in general. I think it is indeed very good, because pension legislation is changing and your Chamber has pointed out several times the special position of the military, to see what that means. Should we or should we not take additional measures and what does it mean financially? The RVU levy has been referred to several times by the Chamber as a subject matter. We will involve them in that. So I'm giving this motion judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u68	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this report of a general consultation (VOA).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u69	The votes on the motions will be on Thursday. I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-40.u70	Then we will continue with the next report of a general consultation.
