ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We shall begin with Mrs Van Esch's question from the Animal Party to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, whom I would like to welcome. The question is about the fuss around the granulate dump. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few years ago there was a shocking documentary about environmental pollution in the Netherlands, called Beerput Netherlands. This made it clear how industry and politics have been cheating on this country for decades. Unfortunately, Zembla's shocking broadcast last Thursday fits in with that long tradition, a tradition which always shows that the economic importance of this government outweighs the interest of nature. So it could happen that the asphalt lobby with Halbe Zijlstra, the VVD party colleague of this minister, simply ignored the law that protects our nature and health. The industry sat up with its waste and after long and frequent contact of Zijlstra with the top officials it could suddenly be dumped into nature. I have the following questions for the Minister. How can it be that a licence is refused on substantive grounds and then passed on by a top official without any knowledge of the substance? Is it true that on 18 October a video call indicates that substantive arguments do not matter? What does the Minister think about the fact that the company, Rijkswaterstaat, simply instructs certain officials to stay away from this file, because they would not be objective? Does the Minister consider it acceptable for lobbyists with obvious financial interests to communicate with their officials in this way? How is it that this whole dossier is steeped in asphalt interests and the Minister insists that they have not played a role? I want this whole cesspool really to be ripped open right now and that we can move on with this dossier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u3	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u4	I thank Mrs Van Esch for her questions. She's asking a lot of detailed questions on this point. Let me address the main point: what role has Mr Zijlstra played? I would like to remind you that on 5 March we already informed the Chamber that Mr Zijlstra has drawn attention to this dossier on a number of occasions, but that it has not led to any other outcome; at the most, it has speeded up the process. I quote from Mr Kuijken's independent report. "The conversation with Mr. Zijlstra on 1 July 2019 did not result in a position being taken by DGWB." That's the Water and Soil Board. "Mr. Zijlstra has been effective in raising the issue of GIB and speeding up a decision at policy level." Mrs Van Esch has asked a lot more detailed questions. I would suggest that she put it to Mr Kuijken himself, because Mr Kuijken has offered to discuss this with the Chamber too. For a large number of cases, I simply refer to the report he has already published. So I suggest that you ask those questions directly to him. After that, of course, you can also debate with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u5	It is quite appalling that we are asking very specific questions to the Minister here and only referring to the Kuijken Committee. Kuijken does not say at all that there has been no pressure from the asphalt lobby. Kuijken says that top officials themselves state that they would not have made any other decision through that lobby. That seems to me to be a bit weed in this case, as the officials of course have to cover themselves when they are sitting with this. So I really want a specific response from the Minister. Furthermore, I find it quite appalling that no response has been given to the questions that have been asked here. Those are just questions to the Minister. Only referring to Kuijken I find in response really too thin for this moment. I would also like to ask you once again to stop this dump. That has been asked many times by our Chamber, by several parties. There's a lot of fuss about this. The new broadcast of Zembla indicates that waste is simply dumped in nature, under the guise of nature development. That really can't go on like this. If you think that there should be more research or that we should look at Kuijken, then perhaps we should. But then we really have to stop this dump at least now, because it really is not possible for us to continue with that now. I'm sure I'd like another reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u6	I'd like to give that reaction. Of course, we would also like to remove that concern. A lot of research has been done on it as well. The decision has also been upheld by the court. So that is where I refer again to the conversation with Mr Kuijken, because he is completely independent, has been able to see all the pieces that have been unpainted, has been allowed to speak with everyone and has even made a call for whistleblowers. If you doubt our words, I think it would be wise to look at them in that way. In the decision-making process when assessing the concrete application of the granules, the rules of the Soil Quality Decision are decisive. Granulite met and still complies with the rules of the Soil Quality Decision. That is the only thing I can say about that right now. I can just refer to that. Those rules are the way they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mr President, I am now giving the other colleagues the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u8	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u9	I will listen carefully to the answers given to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Laçin, then to Mrs Bromet, then to Mrs Van Eijs and then to Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mr. Chairman. What the Minister says here is still below expectations. We were not expecting much from this minister on this dossier, but to stand here in Question Time and answer questions from a Member of Parliament with a reference to a committee and to say 'ask those questions to Mr Kuijken'... No. This minister is responsible. It's gone horribly wrong at Rijkswaterstaat. The Minister now points to a judge's ruling which we now know is based on miscalculations. They were wrong 1,000 times. And because I think it is very crazy to quote now in Question Time. The question to this Minister is: how can it be that despite substantive considerations that have been decided over and over again not to deposit granules, there is a legal document from the ILT, the advice of a steering committee not to do so, the opinion of experts that it should not be done, yet the decision to deposit is taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u12	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u13	And then the Minister calls that effective...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u14	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u15	... but as far as I'm concerned, it tends more towards corruption, Mr. President. So I'd like to ask this minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr. Laçin!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u17	...to get away from that and stop the dump now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr Laçin, Question Time is as follows. The speaker has four minutes in total and the supplementary questions last about 30 seconds. You have spoken for more than a minute. I'm going to see the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u19	Of course, I always try to answer all the questions as well as possible, but Mrs Van Esch was rather detailed. She mentioned, for example, a date of 18 October, which I cannot immediately place. You also insist that I do the answer carefully. If I cannot see that precisely at the moment, I think it would be wise for me to refer to the debate in which we can discuss this in peace. You can talk to Mr Kuijken in advance and ask him all your questions. As far as the decisions taken so far are concerned, they simply comply with legislation and regulations. The Decision soil quality is as it is. They've been tested on that. That trajectory is still in the courtroom. I have little to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u20	The Minister did not refer to the debate, she referred to Mr Kuijken for answers. The minister just did. That's why I'm giving her this answer. What matters to me is that we see on substantive arguments that in Rijkswaterstaat the executive officials say over and over again: we are not going to do this, we are not going to allow this. And after repeated intervention by Halbe Zijlstra, after a two-and-a-half-hour conversation, without any substantive argument, one comes to another decision and they say: we are going to do it anyway. This minister should ensure that Rijkswaterstaat is not blackmailable and is not influenced by a former minister or by anyone else. That's how our rule of law works, that's how Rijkswaterstaat should work. And this minister does nothing here but wave it away. It is now defending Mr Zijlstra's lies that he has only passed on a telephone number. I want this minister to get his act together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u21	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u22	I want the landfill of granules to stop and this minister at Rijkwaterstaat will see where it went wrong and make it up to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Laçin, we're just getting started. We've got a whole week to go. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u24	That too, Mr. Chairman. Let me take away the misunderstanding which I seem to have caused in the direction of Mr Laçin, which I would just like to refer to Mr Kuijken for the answer of all the questions. That is certainly not the intention. Of course, I think I have said that too. The Chamber will then have the opportunity to debate this. It'd be kind of crazy if it wasn't. It is precisely because all kinds of detailed questions are being asked, including the content of the document in which the Secretary of State is better at than I am, that I say here too, but, of course, we want to give all the answers to you together. So the conversation with Mr Kuijken is just an extra service. I also like the fact that he's offering that to your room. I don't need to start interpreting his report. It's much better if he explains that himself. That's exactly what I meant to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u25	I should like to inform you that Mr Laçin is on the order of business with the request to hold a debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u26	Look, you'll be served at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u27	Industry clearly has interests in this matter and is trying to safeguard those interests behind the scenes. My question to the Minister is what the Ministry is doing to defend the general interests of nature and health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u28	What she always does on every file. There is no subject, or there are people who advise us and our officials to do things or leave them. Then it is precisely up to the official organisation and us to come to a well-balanced judgment on this. In this case, that is no different from all other matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u29	Then I go to Mrs Van Eijs and then to Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Van Aalst and Mr von Martels. Mrs Van Eijs, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u31	Hold the foot pedal down for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u32	I have to push really hard. For D66 it is very important that such decisions on the environment and health are made on the basis of substantive arguments and beyond doubt, and that there is no impression of conflict of interest. Mr Kuijken himself said in his report that this process does not deserve a beauty prize. So I ask the Minister what she is going to do to ensure that all the processes in the future do deserve a beauty prize, i.e. neatly on the content and carefully taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u33	The Secretary of State also sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter. We will certainly want to give careful consideration to Mr Kuijken's recommendations. I therefore refer to the letter sent by the Secretary of State. We can discuss this further in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u34	I have two questions, which I am also addressing. On page 63 of the Kuijken report, to which the Minister refers quite frequently, it says: "The question can therefore be asked whether the current rules actually allow the public part of the system, namely the Ministry, to determine independently under which category (land, building material, dredging) a particular product can be applied. I don't think the Ministry is competent to do that right now." I would like a reply from the Minister: 'is not competent', according to Mr Kuijken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u35	That has to do with the reaction "what are we going to do"? and Mr Kuijken's conclusions and recommendations. The Secretary of State has sent you a letter on this matter. I would suggest that, on the basis of that letter and Mr Kuijken's report, we discuss it more closely. The Secretary of State is also working on this, to see where the system can be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u36	Mr. Chairman. I have a minister here who just doesn't answer, not a decent answer. I would like to know what the Minister's conclusion is that Mr Kuijken supports the statement that granulate is land. 'Cause I can't get it out of the report. Did she ask him that on the man?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u37	I have not had direct contact with Mr Kuijken on this, at all. I can repeat quotes from Mr Kuijken's report, but I have just done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u38	Shocking to see there's another ministry led by corrupt VVDs. It will have to be about the content. Is this minister simply prepared to clean up this mess at her ministry, to stand behind those people in West Maas and Waal and put an end to this misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u39	I support the people at my ministry and at the Rijkswaterstaat, who, in all conscience, are doing their job. When it comes to any lobbyist or anyone else who wants to highlight his concerns, I say that is precisely what we consider important in a democracy. We are consulting on all our legislation and so on, so that we can weigh the points of view from all sides, just as Mrs Bromet also points out, in order to achieve a good, integrated weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u40	Clearly, there are a lot of questions. Everyone also needs a debate. That debate is about to take place; that has already been more or less promised. As a CDA, we would like to participate in this. I'd like to take a bit of an advance on that debate. Mr Kuijken's conclusion when it comes to deepening puddles is that the relationship between economics and ecology is totally disturbed. What is the Minister going to do to bring that back into balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u41	I'm repeating myself. I can only refer to the letter sent to you by the Secretary of State on this matter. Then we have to talk to each other about how we want to deal with this in the future. That it does not deserve the beauty prize, the Secretary of State and I have also endorsed it. We would like to talk to you about improvements on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u42	I find it really shocking that this Minister thinks that the questions raised here by my party are too substantive. I also find it appalling that you do not know what happened in the video call on October 18th. In my view, that proves that you are probably not sufficiently informed about the situation at the moment. I find that very worrying, because that means that you are still not sufficiently informed about this matter, which we also see in Zembla's broadcast. There are two questions that I think you can answer, because they are not so substantive. What does the Minister think about a company that instructs a certain official to stay away from this file because it would not be objective? Does the Minister consider it acceptable for lobbyists with obvious financial interests to communicate with civil servants in this way? Those two questions came up in Zembla's broadcast. That broadcast was Thursday night, so you really should be able to answer it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u43	Let me correct something immediately: I certainly did not say that the Party for Animals should not ask substantive questions. Of course you can, always, day and night. We will also always do our utmost to answer them as detailed as possible. But if you ask me what exactly was on a given date, then I am not just going to respond to it in front of the fist. Then I also want it to be carefully tested. So we shall certainly do the same. You ask: can lobbyists have contacts and express their views? Yes, I may, but I would like to quote another text from Mr Kuijken's report. He concluded that "this aspect was addressed in the preparatory documents for the directors' consultation but did not play a decisive role in the decision-making process." Of course, there's the crux there every time. Everyone can express their views and their interests. That's the way it should be in a democracy. And then, in the end, it is our responsibility as a ministry to make an integral, well-balanced balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u44	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u45	I asked two questions. Let me ask the first question again: what does the Minister think of a company that instructs Rijkswaterstaat to keep certain officials away from this dossier? That is a question that is not answered again. So I've already set it twice. I just want an answer to that. How do you feel about this and how can civil servants be disposed of in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u46	I have just said that I agree with Mr Kuijken's conclusion that this whole process does not deserve the beauty prize internally either. We are also going to see how we can achieve an improvement there, both in speed and in other aspects of it. The Secretary of State has sent you a letter stating how she intends to deal with it. I really imagine that we should allow that detailed discussion to land in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-29-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you. I thank the Minister. Now let's go to the next question.
