ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	We started a little later because of a slight delay, but we are about to start the debate on the European Summit on 19 June 2020. Of course, I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister and Members of Parliament. I give the floor to Mr Wilders as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. The Dutch economy is in ruins. Businesses go bankrupt; self-employed people come into the assistance; unemployment doubles and incredibly many people in the Netherlands will be able to pay their rent, their mortgage, their health insurance and the messages for their seen. A terrible tragedy for many families in the Netherlands is coming towards us. How embarrassing and inappropriate than what is being discussed at the European summit on Friday: EUR 750 billion should, according to the European Commission's institutionalized urophils, be distributed as a gift or loan to the so-called recovery fund, which benefits mainly countries such as Italy, Spain and Greece. For example, look at a country like Italy. A country where the government is almost bankrupt, but the average citizen is richer than the average Dutch citizen, and where private sector debt is also 2.5 times lower. The Italian citizen is therefore much less in debt and on average much richer than the Dutch citizen. And why? Because Italians, as we all know, hardly pay taxes. Even the President of the Central Bank of Italy recognizes this, while we pay blue taxes here in the Netherlands. It's the world upside down. And then we would now be giving billions to Italy, when we ourselves are in one of the biggest, unprecedented economic crisis? How perverse do you want it? What sick ghosts made this up? Do they think we're crazy in Brussels or something? Do they assume that Prime Minister Rutte, just like before in Greece, will sign back on the cross, or that the Dutch VVD of the Netherlands will once again make the European Union the blur? Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Prime Minister to reject this decisively and to veto the entire large money pool of EUR 750 billion in grants and loans, to which we, as the Netherlands, too, must contribute EUR 30 billion. So a veto, less is not acceptable. I'd like a commitment from the Prime Minister. Let the Italian government do its own thing by taxing their own richer citizens, or by borrowing more on the capital market itself, which Italy can do at a relatively low interest rate of 1.5%. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the support fund. The fact that the need is not so high in the countries for which all these gifts are intended is also evident from the fact that no country has yet been granted any country! It has made use of the hundreds of billions that are in the support fund. And do you know why? This is because Italy and Greece have not used the EUR 240 billion in ESM because they are loans. It's loans, and loans you have to pay back, but paying back is a dirty word in southern Europe. Those countries don't like that. And why would they? They know there's a big pot of gifts coming, which they don't have to pay back. This shows how perverse the European Union is. I ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with me that if the need was really unbearable and countries like Italy needed that money, they would of course have made use of those billions from the ESM, where they could have borrowed money at an extremely low interest rate. Does he agree with me that the reason they didn't do that is that they'd rather spend money as a gift than borrow it, and that the need isn't that high at all? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European budget. This too is being abused by the urophils, by asking for more and more money. Another EUR 11.5 billion for this year and another EUR 100 billion for the next seven years. The European budget, if it is up to the European Commission, is increasing from EUR 1,000 billion to EUR 1100 billion. That's two ones with eleven zeros, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch share will then be around 70 billion euros and that is a small €10,000 per Dutch household. We are going to contribute a small €10,000 per Dutch household, while unemployment here doubles and people are seeing their income fall massively. It can't be described with a pen. Every time, the Brussels urophiles come up with proposals to increase their power and their budget, because money is power. Mr. Chairman. In Brussels, they are in fact doing nothing more than dividing our taxpayers' money among all those other Member States. Every year we donate almost EUR 9 billion to this monster from Brussels. Here too, I say to the Prime Minister: finally, just like Thatcher did in the old days, with your purse, you must still have one on the table somewhere! Tell them that we want our money back, that they don't get a penny from us anymore, that in this great economic crisis we are now spending our money in our own country on our own people. And that we in the Netherlands have shown enough solidarity by being the European Union's largest net contributor for many years. And that it has been nice, that we are done, that we do not want to give a penny anymore, that we do not want European taxes and that we do not want common loans, which are perhaps not eurobonds but simply eurobonds. We don't want that! The Chamber doesn't want it, and you didn't want it, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. We do not want to give any more donations to countries and populations that have the better of them than here in the Netherlands. That's what the PVV expects from this prime minister. If you bend a millimeter, the Netherlands will once again see that you have no backbone again, and that you bend, swallow and crawl for the urophils and spend our money. I would like to announce here, Madam President, that if the Prime Minister is going back to the summit in July, whether it is about European taxes, whether it is about increasing European budgets, whether it is about the donations, whether it is about the whole package that will make him go through the pump horribly sooner or later, Mrs Merkel is the President of the European Union from 1 July onwards, and you are probably going through the pump, then I will not hesitate to bring the Chamber back from the summer recess and to express suspicion against this Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the longer term, as far as tomorrow is concerned, there is really only one option for the PVV: like a hare from that European Union. We're spending enough on development money as it is. We have spent hundreds of billions of dollars in development money for Africa over the past decades. Surely it cannot be that we are giving development money, tens of billions, hundreds of billions, back to the European Union? Then there is no added value to that project. What good is an internal market if we have to finance the countries with which we have to trade? Then we'll pay for our own trade. What the hell are we doing? So from that European Union! Become the boss of our own money, our own laws, our own country, our own borders, our own culture! A nexit is what the Netherlands needs. The Netherlands again from us, a proud and sovereign country with a new impetus, a new mission and if possible a new Prime Minister. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr Jetten has a question for you. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u4	I waited a while, because I thought: perhaps he is going to stand up for the Dutch interest somewhere in his speech. The single European market is crucial for Dutch prosperity. We earn 70% of our exports from the European internal market. If you do not go for a European emergency fund to deal with this huge blow from the corona crisis and if you even dare to plead for a nexit, what message does Mr Wilders have to the transport companies in Venlo who earn their living in Eastern and Southern Europe? What message does he have for the port worker in Rotterdam who is dependent on the European internal market for his job and for his income? When will Mr Wilders see that the European interest is also the Dutch interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u5	The European interest is contrary to the Dutch interest. All those companies you mention are far better off outside the European Union, because we only pay to the European Union. What kind of internal market is that if we have to pay hundreds of billions? I mentioned yesterday in the media the example of the HEMA that is going badly. Imagine the HEMA on the street handing out vouchers to everyone of €100 and everyone is going to spend those vouchers at the HEMA. At the end of the day the director of the HEMA says: well, we had a good turnover today. Don't you think you're kidding each other? Surely we can't hold up countries by giving hundreds of billions? What do I say, these two funds put together, the support fund and the recovery fund, are together more than 1,000 billion, more than a billiard. That's our money. Let's spend it here. Let's make our country stronger ourselves. A single market based on quicksand, where we finance our own exports, where we do development aid, not only in Africa, but also in Europe, is the worst thing we can do. We need to get out of there. The sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u6	Over the last few months, I have had a lot of debates here with Mr Wilders on the corona crisis. Also there were the huge scenes with funeral cars that drove through the streets in Italy and Spain, because Corona hit them much harder than in the Netherlands. That's where the economy is now. This means that the Italians and Spaniards do not buy our flower bulbs, buy our cheese, do not order our Dutch transport companies to trade with those countries and also make money here in the Netherlands. So I say again to Mr Wilders: you may be angry at what they all need to do better in southern Europe, but you must also recognise that it is in our own interests and in the interests of our own prosperity not to let this economic crisis be too deep and invest with each other to deal with that blow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u7	It's just a perverted system in Europe. Mr Jetten mentioned Italy's example. As I told you, the Italian citizen is better off than the Dutch citizen. The Italian citizen has two and a half times less debts than the Dutch citizen. The Italian citizen is on average............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He's got more savings and more possessions. So let these Italians start by taxing in their own country. Let's get them started on that before we pull the wallet. We're not gonna pay to a country where people are richer because the government fucking taxes? Are you out of your mind? We're not gonna do that. Let them take care of that on their own. If they have any money left, they can simply use the capital market where they can borrow at low interest rates. If that interest rate is still too high, there is also an ESM, where they can also borrow at an interest rate that is almost zero. Let them do that before we become Italy's flap-tap again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u8	That is why the European Commission's proposal is so good. We have to do and-and. We need a strong emergency fund to ensure that the economic recession we are seeing is not too deep and not too long, also to prevent it from threatening Dutch prosperity. At the same time, we need to work together in Europe to structurally reform these economies, so that we can come out of this crisis stronger together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u9	No, we shouldn't. We gotta get out of here. As far as PVV is concerned, we didn't have any of those transfers. We don't need ESM. As far as we are concerned, the ESM will disappear tomorrow and we will leave the European Union. But as long as we do not have the majority in that, I would say that the problem of the example you mention, Italy, is that there is zero tax morale. The government is bankrupt, but these citizens have fewer debts and more assets. That's because that government doesn't levy taxes. Surely it cannot be that we are going to levy taxes here in the Netherlands to help those Italians, while the citizens are better off there, what is the fault of the government that does not levy taxes? Meanwhile, they can enjoy a sambuca on the beach in Sicily. We're not gonna do that crazy thing, are we, Mr. Jetten? We're crazy. We must stand up for our own country and our own interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u10	I do find it interesting to hear Mr Wilders' economic plan a bit. He says we should get that nexit as soon as possible. Is it true that I understood correctly that he said that we simply have to get out of the internal market and that we have to negotiate on a country-by-country basis how we shape exports? Or do we just stop exporting while we're at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u11	We presented extensive plans on this issue years ago. At that time you were still destroying the Netherlands in the cabinet as Deputy Prime Minister. At the time, you were cutting the benefits, and you are now very much in favour of the Italians being baked. We have made great plans for how, as a country outside the European Union, we see it happening to some extent with the United Kingdom now, which can be part of the internal market, if there is one, but under conditions that you are negotiating yourself. That doesn't have to be bad. In fact, I am convinced that if Europe continues with this transfer union and giving development aid to other European countries, a country like the United Kingdom will be much better off. It is not for nothing that since the United Kingdom has decided to leave the European Union a company like Unilever.. it will hurt the Prime Minister.. has decided to go back to the Brexitland United Kingdom. They have not said: oh, this is not part of the internal market; the negotiations have not yet been concluded. They just do it. Great faith. The same will happen in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u12	I'm just wondering if there was an answer to the question, in between the usual remarks. There was indeed a rather curious report by Mr Wilders from years ago for his nexit plan, but what was not entirely clear is whether Mr Wilders wants the Netherlands to stay in or out of the internal market. I'm not actually hearing that right now, when I think he knows that if you're outside the internal market, it'll cost millions of jobs, when when you're inside, you'll have to keep the agreements that are made in Europe. So here's the next question. Under Prime Minister Wilders, we'll have a next year's nexit. Are we going to stay in the internal market, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u13	I predict that if this continues within the European Union...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u14	I said yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u15	I'm about my own answers, not the moment you want me to. What the hell? I predict that if the European Union continues this way, the internal market will crumble and countries will run from the European Union, perhaps even Italy will run first. Trust me, that's totally screwed up. If we leave the European Union and there is no internal market, then we will not be part of it. If there is an internal market, our report shows that we, the Netherlands, will, of course, negotiate it or we will have access to it. But then you'll have a negotiating position. Then you can see how you're gonna do that. We also showed that a country like the Netherlands, though only because of its location, will always remain transit country for a lot of economic goods to the hinterland of the Netherlands. It'll always be. The port of Rotterdam will always flourish. We'll always have jobs here. The great thing about our report was that if we did that, I believe that we in the Netherlands would get 2% more economic growth a year, Mr Asscher. 2% more economic growth! That is not €10,000 and all these contributions for the European Union, but that is thousands of euros extra in the wallet for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u16	The story is very fuzzy. Mr Wilders wants to negotiate access to the market. I'm sure he'll come out better if he does that on his own on behalf of our country...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u17	One hundred percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u18	...and then there will be 2% growth here and 2% growth there. It's just gambling with Dutch people's jobs. It's gambling with the survival of the Dutch. A very, very big mouth about everything and everyone, other political parties, other countries, the cabinet, other cabinets, but when it comes to Mr Wilders' economic plan, it's quicksand, gambling with jobs and throwing people into misery. That's what he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u19	Well, what the Labour Party is doing, and not only when Mr Asscher was Deputy Prime Minister and the Netherlands was about to cut down on care, the WW, social security and what he did... with which he destroyed the jobs in the Netherlands, with which the Labour Party yes, he does not like to hear it; I see him looking nervously with which he has dealt with the Netherlands. But you're now agreeing to be a so-called opposition party. Are you happy that we are going to waste our billions on countries that have it better than us? It started immediately after the crisis with 37 billion from the cohesion funds. Then came the support fund of 540 billion, which we also guarantee in the Netherlands. Then came the recovery fund of 750 billion. The MFF will be raised by 11 billion this year. Soon the European budget will receive another 100 billion. Remember, Mr. Asscher, the 11 with nine zeros? That's probably what you're gonna sign. Money for countries that are better off, who are treated like Africa and who are about to receive gifts! Instead of the Labour Party saying 'we are going to spend that money here in the Netherlands to ensure that people get better purchasing power, by ensuring that nurses are treated better and get a better salary, by getting more jobs in the Netherlands', Mr Asscher is throwing those jobs and that money to Italy, Spain, France and to what countries I know. You and your party are the one who sells the Netherlands, and then as an opposition party. Shame on you! You're not an opposition party at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u20	We hadn't heard from nexit for a while, but the nexit is back. Mr Wilders refers to his report, from which an important sentence has been deleted in the final version, namely that the private sector and the public sector are being called upon to borrow. Anyway, I won't talk about that. It is a good thing that Mr Wilders is going on about what he wants. He wants to be part of the internal market. It's possible. So do Switzerland and Norway, but they do pay contributions to the European Union. So if Mr Wilders is here on the European budget and he wants to be part of the internal market, then he can still draw his wallet for the European Union. How does Mr Wilders see it? Are we not going to pay a contribution or are we, or is it just a bit of a fantasy of Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u21	We have had this discussion 500 times in this country. Of course, if you have access to that internal market, after negotiations, you would have to pay for it. But that's a dime of what we're going to have to pay right now. That's totally negligible. Just as we didn't have to pay Greece back then, we don't have to pay all these crazy funds anymore. We no longer need to contribute the 750 billion to that recovery fund. We don't have to pay these support funds anymore. We no longer have to pay for this development aid, which is provided not only to Africa under the leadership of the VVD, but also to the whole of southern Europe today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u22	It is a good thing that the PVV is saying here for the first time that leaving the European Union means that you are also paying. At first, it was always said that's not true. Well, that's true. That is a step towards realism, by Mr Wilders. Then we still have to pay. Otherwise we will not have access to the internal market. As Mr Jetten said, the port of Rotterdam, with 90,000 jobs, depends on exports. We are all putting that on the line for a fantasy by Mr Wilders. Well, it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u23	What I have is not a fantasy, but a dream for the Netherlands. That is indeed a completely different dream from that of the VVD. What's the VVD's dream? Make a lot of noise, just like Rutte is doing now. He flutters a bit, as he always does, and he says 'I don't want this and I don't want it', but I predict that when I call the Chamber back from the recess, we will be standing here in July, because Mr Rutte will eventually bow down to Mrs Merkel, who will be President of the European Council from 1 July, at least Germany. He's going to bend. This means that we are going to come up with European taxes, or that the European MFF, the budget of the European Union, is going up, or that we are going to give gifts, perhaps a little more or a little less, and loans. We're all gonna do that. So what's the VVD's dream? The VVD's dream is becoming more eutrophic every day. That is: giving money to Europe, giving power to Europe, perhaps even introducing eurobonds, but under a different name. That's your dream. Do you know what my dream is? That we spend our money on our own people and our own country. That we are going to be a proud, sovereign country again, which does indeed do business with other countries, which does not build walls around it, but says 'it is our money and we are not going to make countries that are better off themselves than we are'. That's perverse, that's wrong, and that's what the VVD stands for and we don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u25	It was a party, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks. I understand that no one objects to the fact that Mrs Leijten is the last person to speak? No. Then the order of speakers will change. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that, before a European summit, we can once again discuss with the Prime Minister. I've missed that for the last few months. I also promise you a slightly different sound from that of the first speaker, so you will have something to look forward to. Mr. Chairman. The pandemic seems to be reasonably under control in many countries, but when it comes to the economic damage, the gloomy predictions about growth, unemployment and public finances are plundering each other. Inequality is also at risk: within countries, but also between countries, including within the European Union. Within the European Union, the opportunities for governments to draw the wallet vary considerably. Mr. Chairman. If we work together and want to help each other out, we will get out of the crisis faster and better; I am convinced of that. Our economies are simply too interconnected. That purchasing power of the Dutchman, which Mr Wilders was just talking about, is half earned abroad. If southern Europe goes bad, our trade will be at risk, and if unsustainable debts arise, our banks will have a problem. So we have to find a solution together, if it is not out of solidarity, then it is out of self-interest. That is precisely what the Netherlands, which benefits from the internal market, should be able to promote a little more. But apart from the economy, I would also like to look a little more at the political side of the debate on recovery. To my disappointment and amazement, the appreciation that the cabinet sent us last week is not really about that at all. I have questions about that to the Prime Minister. Where are we in the European Union? What about the support for the "frugal four" proposals? I saw another economic essay in the Financial Times yesterday. The political message was not entirely clear to me. Was it a public lesson economics for all those others who don't quite want to get it, or was it an attempt to build a bridge? Are the four themselves still on the same page or have the "sucky four" become a "robbing three"? What about the fight we had with southern Europe? Have the excuses been accepted or is there still a lot of old? How do we relate to Germany, until recently a loyal ally in budgetary matters, but now more in the French camp? Mr. Chairman. Now that the Brexit is at the door, the White House is confused and China and Russia are breaking us up, unanimity and decisiveness are also essential for other than economic reasons. Is that how the Prime Minister sees it? Then there are the proposals themselves and the appreciation of the cabinet. I have four questions about this, first about the scope and the justification. The cabinet says that the amount to be entered in the recovery fund is actually not sufficiently substantiated; it is not sufficiently clear why it is this amount. Does this mean that if this support for the cabinet can be convincing, the sum of 750 billion will be negotiable for the cabinet? My second question concerns the relationship between loans and subsidies. Does the government also see that new large-scale loans can lead to unwanted accumulation of debt and that subsidies, provided they leave under strict conditions, are sometimes better to help an economy recover? My third question is about own resources: a good way, I think, to prevent increases in payments and, at the same time, to support the direction you want to take with the transition, while avoiding new tax competition. The government says that the use of ETS revenues and taxes on unrecycled plastic are in line with the climate objectives. However, the cabinet is reluctant, because transparency, simplification and predictability are the problem. Doesn't it always apply to national taxes that you have to pay attention to things like that? Are we seeing the beginning of a positive appreciation of the question of the possible increase in own resources? Finally, Mr President. My fourth question is about the pace: how does the Prime Minister see it? Shouldn't we be quick to avoid deepening the crisis? Is a phased approach possible? What's the schedule like? Mr. Chairman. It is good that the cabinet is committed to an EU budget and a recovery fund that is in line with modern priorities. If we make so much public money available, it is obvious that we will make this work for the benefit of, for example, the green transition, which we wanted anyway. However, in the European Commission's plans, it is still little concrete: many fine words, but few harsh conditions. Look, for example, at the sustainability and greening of the EU. Should we not take guarantees so that the money from the recovery fund cannot be spent on polluting activities, I ask the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. I like to close with the issue of vaccinations, and that brings me back to the covid pandemic. The Netherlands, together with Germany, France and Italy, has established a vaccination alliance. In the meantime, an agreement has been reached on 300 million promising covid vaccines, with the possibility of a further 100 million doses being reduced. How much we pay for that, the cabinet won't say. My question is: why are we not operating at EU level? In the EU, health ministers have committed nearly EUR 2.5 billion to pay in advance, but there is a joint negotiation on behalf of the EU as a whole with the pharmaceutical industry in order to reach the best possible price. How do these two initiatives relate, on the one hand, to the Dutch initiative with Germany, France and Italy, and, on the other hand, to the initiative of the European Commission, for which our VWS Minister has signed up? And how are we going to prevent the rich countries from putting billions into a race to get vaccines, when the poor countries have checked? Will the EU make a real effort to ensure that vaccines are not only available to its own Member States, but also to the less wealthy countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u28	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u29	Mr. Chairman. You have heard me say a lot here in this House: this country can only do it in the long term if Europe does it well. And I'm very, very serious about this sentence today. We must be prepared to make a completely different contribution to the European budget for a limited period of time, and that is to say a significantly higher contribution to the European budget, because we want all the Member States of the European Union to be able to recover economically. Mr President, these are not my own words: I borrowed them from Angela Merkel. She knows how to tell us honestly and effectively what we often do not dare to do in this house. It is our well-understood self-interest to defend Europe financially. Our dear, free Netherlands can only do well in the long term if Europe is doing well. For the Netherlands, the Union is not instrumental. It's not a mouth cover you use to throw it away when it's done its job. The Union is for us the oxygen that makes us breathe. Our sovereignty depends on that greater European sovereignty that we have adopted in Europe. Our prosperity depends on the post-war miracle of the single market. Angela Merkel knows. Dutch entrepreneurs know this too. Trade within the EU accounts for more than two thirds of our exports. We still export less to the great giant China than to the old world of Spain and Italy. Entrepreneurs also know that if the south drowns in a sea of debt, the Netherlands will sink after it. My group therefore welcomes the European Commission's proposal, which helps the EU as a whole with economic recovery but explicitly focuses on the hardest affected regions. The planned expenditure is subject to sensible conditions: commitments on spending, tight agreements on economic reform, demands on the rule of law and investment in green recovery, knowledge and innovation. Europe is not an open-air museum, it is a future lab, and the Commission has seen this well. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate you on the reasonableness with which the cabinet appreciates this Commission proposal. Not so long ago, the Prime Minister mocked planned reparations and talked about a party committee looking for a party. Minister Hoekstra greeted his European colleagues in need with a lifted bookkeeping finger. About the innovative financial instruments he himself signed for in April, he said: well, those words can be explained as cheerfully as he or she wants. When I asked the cabinet to follow up on Merkel's plans and Macron, Minister Hoekstra said on television: leave the boy; he can say what he wants. But look where we are now. I can tell you that this boy is positively surprised that the Minister and the Prime Minister have now stepped over their long shadow. Because the cabinet now embraces the need for a gigantic European recovery fund, in the Dutch interest, it no longer objects to the financing of this emergency fund, is more positive about European taxes and stresses the importance of the right priorities within the European budget. And for that, my compliments. But I also ask the question: why do you, as a cabinet, come to this understanding so late? Couldn't this have been done without putting the Netherlands in the south as the blunt accountant, without alienating us from even Angela Merkel's Germany and without inciting euroscepticism in our own country? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the content of the Commission proposal. Firstly, with the help of the Netherlands, the Commission can borrow billions on the capital market. The cabinet is critical on two important points: how are we going to use this fund and will it be loans or subsidies? My question to the Prime Minister is how hard this line is. Is there a certain relationship between loans and subsidies, for example, as Denmark has recently proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u30	The question I would like to put to Mr Jetten is probably obvious. He is pleased with this reasonableness and says: good that the cabinet is now reacting so reasonably, too bad that this happened so late and that some chunks were made along the way. I'll say it in my own words, but he's okay with that now. At the same time, I see an appreciation in which it is said: well, we should see that amount again. I see an appreciation in which it is said: no subsidies, just loans. I see an appreciation in which it is said that, in the end, we do not see European taxes for reasons of transparency, predictability and so on. If you really look at that very critically with glasses that, let me say, D66 and GroenLinks can often sort of share, then you could also say: Mr Jetten has bought a cat in the pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u31	I have just listened very carefully to Mr Van Ojik's contribution and I could actually fully endorse it. I think Mr Van Ojik has also read the cabinet letter very well. Between the lines you do read a change in the attitude towards previous cabinet juices. It's not a "no" anymore, it's not the butt against the crib anymore. It is a number of points from the European Commission's proposal that are valued constructively. And there are indeed concerns. Some of the questions I am about to ask are also in line with Mr Van Ojik's four questions. But I am making the political point with him about the attitude that the Netherlands has adopted in recent months. We actually referred Michel's proposal to the trash bin earlier this year within 24 hours, and now we need to negotiate a proposal that is much bigger than the one we said "no' to. So I do wonder: what strategy do we pursue, how does it serve the Dutch interest and how does it respond to the concerns we have with regard to the specific points?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u32	Please continue. Or, Mr Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u33	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I see that Mr Jetten is very pleased with the tone in the letter. But I had a bit of the same thing as Mr Van Ojik: I read literally in that letter the phrase "The commitment of the Dutch cabinet is unchanged." So how did that bet change, if it says it's unchanged? Perhaps Mr Jetten would like to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u34	So I see more reasonableness and a more constructive attitude when it comes to whether there should be a large emergency fund at all, the European Commission can borrow money for it, and whether we are prepared to think about our own resources. And, of course, it is also good to set firm conditions; I will give a few more to the cabinet in a moment. But I think that's a better attitude than we've seen in the last few months. Moreover, there is also the great Dutch interest that we should not only have an increased European budget and a strong emergency fund, but that we should also devote it to the right priorities. So that countries that break the rule of law are cut short, and that we are committed to the greening and digitisation of the European Commission. What I have seen over the last few months is that our attitude mainly led to those priorities being referred back to the background. So I see there now a smarter attitude from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u35	If I understand correctly, the attitude and tone is smarter and more constructive. I think that's right. There has not been much material change, but Mr Jetten says that this may happen in the future. Now my question. He has previously indicated in an interview, I believe in the NRC, that he considers the coalition agreement to be obsolete on this point. So I was just as curious, as an interested Member of Parliament, when we are going to receive a new version of that, what is the state of these negotiations and at what point that becomes concrete. So the attitude is already better. That sounds like a good, fertile soil to re-negotiate. When is that actually going to happen and how are we going to hear it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u36	Well, if the more constructive attitude of the cabinet ultimately leads to the right results, hopefully we will assess that in the coming weeks, if there is a deal. I hope that this deal will be concluded soon, because of the need for that economic recovery. And if the Netherlands finally agrees to a European agreement, in which we have a substantial emergency fund and introduce own resources for the European Union, then that is different from the spirit of the coalition agreement we agreed with each other three years ago. And that's also wise, because corona has turned the world upside down. We have spent billions and billions here in our own country in recent months, rightly, to save Dutch jobs and businesses. All this did not fit in with the coalition agreement we concluded before Corona. And that has been my appeal in the NRC interview, and that is again my appeal here today: let us see what is needed now, for Europe and for the Netherlands, and not a piece of paper that we agreed with each other three years ago, as sacred and thus determine our attitude in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u37	I propose, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u38	Finally, Mr President. I think that's absolutely true: the world has changed tremendously. Only, I read it like it was more than just a call and "pooh-pooh-pooh, what's going on?" It really read as if you thought the appointments should be different. But that wasn't just the interview, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u39	No, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u40	You discussed it in the coalition, didn't you? So at some point that leads to an adjustment or no adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u41	In the end, it's about the result we're getting there. And I do not necessarily have to amend the coalition agreement for that. I am concerned that we, as the Netherlands in Europe, should finally reach a sensible agreement. And if we have to do things that we didn't want to do four years ago, then I fully support that and I want to give that space to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u42	Mr. Chairman. At the moment when a spokesperson, in this case even the chairman of the D66 group, says he is "satisfied" in the debate on Europe, he says that he appreciates Mrs Merkel very much, in response to an interruption, even says that he could fully endorse the earlier input of GroenLinks... You'll just be the VVD or the CDA! I can't believe this... It's getting more eutrophic and more eutrophic every time. And not only with you, but apparently also with the coalition. And, Madam President, I'm just signalling it, but they're not going anywhere. The VVD and the CDA, they stay put. Merkel is cited, GroenLinks is cited, the coalition agreement is cited, and they remain seated! So apparently they are either uncomfortable, or they are now in agreement with the VVD that more Europe is good. Now, Madam President, if you will allow me, because they are still sitting on a substantive question. The question of substance is as follows. Do you not agree with me that it is extremely perverse that we support a country such as Italy, whether through donations or through a fund, but certainly through donations, when that country has more money in the private sector, is richer, has fewer debts? And that it is really not important that we should immediately ask the Dutch taxpayer for a sacrifice through part of the donations we have to contribute to from 2028 or from the guarantee of the loans, while the Italian taxpayer does not pay taxes, and it is much better that ours has ours?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u43	In his own contribution, Mr Wilders wanted to put a very large fence around the Netherlands, also a large fence around the port of Rotterdam and around the logistics cluster in Venlo. That is not the Dutch interest, but a threat to Dutch jobs and to Dutch prosperity. We are making money in Venlo and Rotterdam thanks to our trade with Italy, Spain and all those other countries in the European internal market. So it is purely in our own interests to create a substantial economic recovery fund now. Now Mr Wilders says: why do we not let the Italians borrow anymore? Yes, it is a country which, for all kinds of reasons, already has a huge mountain of debt to deal with itself. This would be unwise for the Italians, but also for Dutch prosperity. If we need to see if you can do subsidies in addition to loans, I think that's wise. However, these subsidies must be subject to good conditions for structural reforms, which are also necessary in those countries. If Mr Wilders is concerned about the Dutch own contribution or the contribution that Dutch citizens have to make to the European Union, I would like to invite him to look at how we can smartly introduce European taxes, how we can ensure that polluting Chinese companies contribute to this European emergency fund with a CO levy at the border. So the Dutch citizens do not have to pay for that. That's money we can cleverly raise to invest in our own prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u44	All right, perhaps Mr Jetten can try to answer my question in his second attempt. My question was: why do you think it is fair that the Dutch taxpayer should start bleeding at once while the Italian taxpayer is talking about the private sector, which is richer and less in debt than the Dutch taxpayer? Wouldn't it be logical for the Italian government to levy taxes, as we also have to pay taxes in the Netherlands? No one likes those horrible blue envelopes. And then you want to add a blue envelope from Brussels with some stars on it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u45	Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u46	But let's talk about Italy. The people in Italy and the private sector there have fewer debts and more assets. They are richer than the Dutch because Italy does not levy taxes. Why don't you say as a D66 man: I'm not going to pay a penny until they ask for taxes from their own citizens; it's perverse to make the Dutch pay, while the Italian doesn't have to pay because they don't have to pay taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u47	First of all, about the tax envelope. There will be no tax envelope with a European flag on it. Don't say that. That's bullshit, and you know it. It is European taxes that we have paid by polluting Chinese companies. We are making them pay by American tech companies, which are not paying proper taxes anywhere in Europe. If we impose fair European taxes there, we can invest them in our prosperity, without the Dutch taxpayer having to pay the price. That's very wise. And yes, there must also be reforms in Italy. Yes, it would be good if the Italian government got better at collecting taxes. There are all kinds of other reforms that they could carry out there, but we in the Netherlands all earn a great deal of our salary thanks to that European internal market. This is now under pressure because of the corona crisis and because of the economic crisis in southern Europe. I am not asking Mr Wilders to show solidarity with Italians. I ask him to show solidarity with the Dutch, who want us to avoid this economic recession as quickly as possible in their own interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u48	The conclusion, then. I am not getting an answer again, or just a very small answer that the Italians need to get better at taxing. The answer is simply that D66 accepts that the Dutch taxpayer can bleed and has to pay because the Italian government refuses to tax the Italians. Italians with more money, more possessions and less debt celebrate, hold siestas and, as I said, lie on the beach in Sicily. That while the Dutchman has to pay and says: we pay taxes because you don't have to do it. That's perverse, that's wrong, you shouldn't do that. Your whole story is a "way with us" story: away with the Netherlands, away with our money and to Europe. It's perverse! What are you still doing here in this Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u49	I also find it appalling how Mr Wilders is now talking about co-Europeans in countries such as Italy and Spain, where they have had to bury thousands and thousands of people in recent months because of the corona crisis and where the economy is shrinking 20% because of the corona crisis. You shouldn't talk about that in caricatures of partying people. Those people are having a really hard time. We can help them to get through this crisis quickly, also to ensure that no jobs are lost in the Netherlands because of the economic crisis in the south. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at my questions to the cabinet. I was just asking about the relationship between loans and subsidies and whether the Prime Minister sees opportunities for strict conditions, just as the Danes do. Secondly, the cabinet welcomes European own resources, European taxes on unrecycled plastic and the extension of the ETS system. But I also said that there are more forms of own resources that we can raise to tackle problems at European level. I am thinking of the European CO2 tax at the border. I am thinking of a digitaks, so that large tech companies, which now benefit from tax advantages everywhere, will also pay taxes. I would ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to look at other proposals, such as the proposals for a digitaks and CO2 tax at the border, with the open vision with which the cabinet is now looking at this plastic tax and the ETS system. Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, the Cabinet agrees with the Commission's modern priorities, namely a strong link with the rule of law and a clear focus on future priorities, namely innovation, knowledge, climate and green growth. I fully support that line of government. I also call on the Prime Minister to ensure that these priorities remain in place, because we saw at the previous rounds of negotiations that every euro that the Prime Minister and Chopin had in hand was cut off from those modern priorities. The Netherlands must be more merchant and less accountant. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so, and will he make an effort to reach a European agreement quickly in view of the high urgency? Because I am concerned about the lack of urgency. Let us not repeat the error of the previous crisis. For too long delay is detrimental to our economy. Mr. Chairman. This European summit is also about Brexit, so I have a few brief comments to make. While we are talking about economic recovery from this corona crisis, a Brexit without a trade agreement seems increasingly inevitable. If there is something bad for the Dutch economy, for Dutch entrepreneurs, then it is a Brexit without a trade deal. [[Sentence could not be parsed: De situatie zal sowieso veranderingen, ook met een deal, want de Britten verlaten uiteindelijk sowieso de interne markt.]] This means major changes for our ports, customs and export companies. I heard Minister Blok doesn't come up with a plan for preparing for the Brexit until after the summer. I think that's too late. It is logical that companies are now mainly concerned with direct corona damage, but it is very important that they and our cabinet are also preparing for the changes that the Brexit is going to bring about. What is the cabinet going to do to ensure that Dutch companies are ready for this. Mr President, I will conclude. It is purely in the interests of the Netherlands that the European economy recovers sustainably and symmetrically. The Netherlands is a country of services and transit. Europe is our ship, our anchor and our crew. Without Europe, we are lost. From our flower growers to our transport companies, our entire economy is largely about trade, and that is where Europe is our most important market. For the Netherlands, European unity and cooperation is therefore priceless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u50	Thank you. Mr Asscher has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u51	Mr. Chairman. For the Netherlands, the location in Europe and cooperation in Europe is an incredibly important protection. The rule of law, our security and our way of life are much easier to maintain in a turbulent world if we do so together with other countries. When you see what corona does in health and in the economy, you should not forget that it also takes the international relations on a huge scale. China is trying to strengthen its position in the world with mouthcaps diplomacy. And you see Trump's United States still making further retreating moves. That role of leader of the free world is becoming more and more vacant. This week there was the decision to withdraw 10,000 soldiers from Germany. This means something for Europe, but that also means something for the Netherlands. The illusion that we could all do better on our own and that it would all produce free money, as Mr Wilders outlined here, is, of course, fake. If we look honestly at the interests for our future, for our children, for our economy and for our jobs, then we come to the conclusion that we need a very strong Europe, precisely in order to protect that way too: the rule of law, democracy, the freedoms that go with it and the open economy that goes with it. Then I am concerned about the position that the Netherlands is now taking within Europe, because you know that if you are not sitting at the table in Europe, you are on the menu. That's what we're seeing now. Hoekstra and Rutte at first, especially for domestic use, blew high off the tower. This means that much less reforms can be enforced that are in Dutch interest. This threatens to lead to a much less change in the budget in the direction of the Netherlands, a modern economy, than is desirable. When you see the social consequences of the corona crisis and the economic crisis, one in ten Europeans is in danger of losing their jobs, one in five young people in Europe are in danger of losing their jobs. In the Netherlands, this is hard and it is even harder if there is a second wave or if there is no economic recovery in Europe. Then we have a huge interest in working with the other countries in this respect. Yesterday, the Central Planning Office came up with rather staggering figures about our economy. I've never seen them like this before, I don't think any of us have. The CPB writes: "In this case, understood self-interest means international solidarity for the Netherlands." It's not popular, it's true. Where CPB is followed as often as it means that difficult things have to happen in the Netherlands, this must now also have meaning. I see the tone is changing. I give that to Mr Jetten. I see that joint borrowing from the Commission is no longer taboo. But what would be good would be for the Netherlands to reconnect with Germany and France, if there were a compromise and if the Netherlands could play a role in this, if the Netherlands were to take the lead, if the economic recovery could be accelerated rather than delayed. In this context, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister does not exclude the possibility of subsidies in a balanced package under the right conditions. I ask whether the Prime Minister does not exclude the possibility of increasing the European budget in a balanced package, because we have read that, before the own resources decision is increased, there should be a temporary increase in the budget by bringing forward the frontloading in that horrible Brussels jargon, of part of the budget. Is the cabinet going to block it now, because that is already on the agenda, or is the cabinet going to use the position of the Netherlands to achieve a good result there? I would welcome the latter. I would encourage the Prime Minister to do so. Contrary to Mr Jetten, I acknowledge that the tone is different, and I am not satisfied with the position that the Netherlands has now. We painted ourselves in the corner. As I see with the other economical, dreary four that there will be slow, but certainly a change, I would like to ask the Prime Minister here in the Chamber to tell us what he chooses: to invest out of the crisis instead of more debt and more savings, to work together in Europe instead of an internal policy to keep Mr Wilders happy. But you can't keep them happy. He's gonna keep tattling his story around here anyway. It does not matter what Mr Rutte does in that regard. He can better use his acquired credit as a statesman for the future of Europe and for the future of the Netherlands. Finally, the Brexit. We see a much larger country there than the Netherlands struggling with the demand: the internal market, but do not want to contribute and do not want to abide by the rules. You can see that, under Johnson's leadership, this is gonna be a fiasco. However, you can also see that underneath that something happens that costs the Netherlands, Europe and especially the workers in Europe, whether it is Italians or Dutch, for a long time, costs jobs, costs money, namely competition at ever lower tax rates, on ever lower conditions, competition actually contrary to what Europe should be. Europe must be: social progress, employment better protection for workers. The departure of Unilever, and we all know that the Prime Minister had almost everything to do to keep them here, points out, as far as I am concerned, that in an agreement with the British, whatever agreement, we must make crystal clear and firm agreements against tax avoidance, against competing at ever lower rates of income tax. That is why I am also in favour of taxing companies that are not now paying but profiting from their own resources for Europe. It must now come from workers' tax revenues, which are now greatly benefiting from the current crisis. I am thinking of a windfall tax, a tax for the big tech companies, for example. I heard Mr Jetten on that too. I would like to hear the cabinet on this, because we have already passed motions on it in the Chamber before. That must be the issue now, because it is more just to workers in the Netherlands, in Italy and everywhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr. Chairman. I fully support Mr Asscher's last speech. I also heard him talk about his enormous concerns about the Dutch economy. In an interruption debate with Mr Wilders, he pointed out the importance of trade for Dutch jobs and employment. That raises the question of whether he regrets the vote of the PvdA Group here in the House of Representatives on the Free Trade Agreement with Canada. It was Minister Ploumen who told us at the time that the trade agreement with Canada could bring the Dutch economy between 600 million and 1.2 billion, and is therefore good for Dutch jobs and jobs. Would the Labour Party, in view of the corona crisis, understand that it would be wise to conclude the trade agreement with the Canadians, even as an example of a trade agreement with the British?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u53	I understand Mr Jetten's question very well. Mr Jetten said just now: Europe is our ship, our crew, our anchor and our course. On behalf of the Labour Party, I also believe that Europe needs to change. I am very pro-European, but I do think that a number of things need to be changed. I think we should deal with labour migration differently. This is too often used as a way of reducing the costs for employers rather than in the interests of employees. I think we should deal with taxation differently. I think this is too often used as a way of playing countries against each other. And I think we should deal with trade differently. Fair trade, involving workers and involving environmental and sustainability organisations and human rights organisations, will have to be much more prominent. On that point, and that is what we have previously exchanged, I think that the CETA Convention, and in particular the investment protection paragraph, is not good enough. Am I against trade? No. In that we remain allies. But can it be better and should it be better? Yes. It is precisely when you see how geopolitical relations in the world change, when you see China's attitude and how the United States behave, that it is particularly important to make a new standard possible in the area of trade agreements. As far as I am concerned, the Dutch Minister for Trade is also working on this with her colleagues in Europe. It seems to me that you should be able to find a fertile soil for that in Canada. Who knows? Maybe it's possible. But not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u54	The Minister for Trade recently presented a very nice position paper with her French colleague on how these future trade relations should look, with much more attention being paid to sustainability and with much more attention being paid to workers' rights. And also with a much more realistic view on how to tackle all kinds of crazy tax constructions for companies. So the Netherlands is already taking a leading role in this, together with France, to change the attitude in Europe in the field of international trade. I hope that Mr Asscher will also see that and that this will also deal with a large part of his concerns. But the question remains what your message is to Dutch employees. They see us in an economic recession. They see that with better trade with Canada we can make up to a billion more. As an old Deputy Prime Minister, you also know that it takes years for you to reach a new agreement with the Canadians, if you now reject that trade agreement. My question to you would be: can you not give the tip to your senate group, given the enormous impact of the corona crisis, 'go for that Canadian trade agreement'? My fellow Members are laughing now, but it is a very serious point, Mr President, because then we will do and-and-and-and-and-so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u55	I'm curious, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u56	Then we do and-and-and we do more trade with the Canadians, in the Dutch interest, and in the meantime we make sure that all the trade agreements that we are going to conclude in the future are in accordance with these new standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u57	Mr Jetten has to laugh about it himself. I like that. He also knows, of course, that reference to an interview in NRC, a joint essay of two ministers or a tweet does not change the world. When I'm talking about thinking it should be better, I'm talking about real changes. That applies to the Netherlands and that applies to Europe. Maybe that's possible. I'd be there for that, but it's not the same as we're doing an interview somewhere. I am concerned about the real protection of workers. I am concerned about real protection of those more social interests. We know that increased prosperity and job growth were huge in the first trade agreements. But it's decreasing now. The second thing you see is that the benefits are very unevenly distributed. That's something we have to worry about. So new jobs are created and jobs disappear. But it also leads to a huge increase in inequality and a deterioration. It also leads to erosion of the position of employees. Not for nothing do you see throughout the world, even in countries that have an even stronger trade tradition than we do, that there are concerns about how these trade agreements work out. That's why I think it should be better. But we are very much in agreement on many of the other things that Mr Jetten said. It sounded a bit like an opportunity argument to ask for something different now because of Corona the First Parliamentary Group. They make their decisions in complete independence, as is the case with D66. I am here to defend why we need a different kind of trade relationship between the European Union and other countries or blocs in order to protect workers. I am here to defend why, in order to protect workers from the European Union, we need a different kind of trade relationship with other countries or blocs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u58	Finally, Mr President, I would like to address the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. It is not about tweets or interviews in the NRC. The question is this: are we able to set a first new standard with our allies, the Canadians, and are you prepared to organise for 600 million to 1.2 billion extra trade for the Netherlands, because we also need it very much in this economic crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u59	This is kind of weird, isn't it? I know that all kinds of positions are being considered now, but I think the First Parliamentary elections are a little further away. If Mr Jetten were to become a member, I would certainly support that. I think he could do great. The average age is therefore basement in the Senate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u60	My hair's getting a little gray.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u61	Well, well, well. But a little bit more content: I think it would be appropriate not to promise that it would yield an additional 1.2 billion if the First Chamber said 'yes' to that treaty. That is nonsense, of course, and so does Mr Jetten. Just when you try to conduct serious politics here and say that there are arguments you need to weigh, you shouldn't promise that either. I respect that you're voting for that treaty. I hope that Mr Jetten is going to do so because I have explained this in a nuanced manner, and I also respect the fact that I am making a different assessment. But it doesn't fit in with the mouth-to-mouth struggle against populism to promise now that there will be 1.2 billion more if we vote differently. I don't think that's so strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u62	No, I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u63	I quoted Minister Ploumen with that 1.2 billion. Those aren't my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u64	Okay, then you've made that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u65	Mr President, back to Europe. I also believe that the Prime Minister would like to go to the First Chamber as soon as possible. I support that, too. That seems like a good time, looking back on a special period here. Thank you very much. You see a lot of people out there who aren't good at rehab and who keep going there. Mr. Chairman. I think that the debate on where we are now in Europe and on the position of employees requires a much more serious debate than this little magical quote by Mr Jetten. I was struck by part of his speech. As a coalition party, it would be appropriate to talk about how the Netherlands can come from that corner where it painted itself. It is precisely for the future of the Dutch economy, employment, but also for our way of life that a strong Europe is essential. Then we can put this aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u66	A strong Europe that brings prosperity to all, so I understand the Labour Party. It would be very nice if that turned out that way. Now signatures were offered this morning by Twenteners who work at Vredestein Banden. That's a profitable factory. However, the shareholder thinks it is a good idea to close the toko there, with the result that 700 families without income are built in Hungary because a factory has been built with European subsidies. They can make the tires much cheaper there, with profits for the shareholders. How does the Labour Party feel about how this works now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u67	It fits perfectly with what I indicated as contrast between the Labour Party and D66. I believe that Europe needs to change. The protection of employment and workers must be given a much more important role than the protection of shareholders' interests. That is also why at least some of the discontent about Europe has arisen. People have seen that the rules of the game for protecting the free market are going to work much more for the big companies, the big conglomerates, and much less for the small contractor in the neighborhood and for the employees. This is an example of that. So I think this should change. This does not mean that you should no longer have a Europe or that you should have a weak Europe, but it means that there is a need for political change and that it is precisely this upward social convergence that must be at the forefront of European social progress. This includes taxing, which these companies often do not do. Then you can return some of the shareholder value in wages to employees. And this includes clear rules of play in the free market and dealing with competition law differently, which is now being used againstzzp'ers and those very large companies. We can change that together in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u68	I'd really like that to change...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u69	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u70	... but that is not the practice and that is not this European Commission either. This European Commission is allowing us to implement a law at this time, so that the Authority can no longer unannounced check whether companies have their business in order. It is precisely in the interests of companies that supervision is pushed back, while you are here making a plea on behalf of the Labour Party that this should not be the case. My question is: how? I do not see it happening with this European Commission. Nice plans for a Green Deal, but who gets to give the financial advice? The biggest investor who's always stopped the Green Deal! That is this European Commission. So how are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u71	I think it is very much on our way and on that of the MEPs of our political families, to ensure that the interests of companies and the interests of the large lobby do not win, as they often did in the past. I see some hope for that. I see a big change, too. I see a Europe that says much more clearly that the polluter must pay instead of the families at home. I see that Europe is now saying much more clearly that protecting workers is not negotiable, not even in a deal with the British. But I also see concerns, and we share those concerns. We can change those things together. We do that in this house and in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u72	We know that MEPs are busy with transparency, a lobby register and so on. But that goes one step forward and three steps backwards, because the European Commission is holding it back. That's the big problem. That power is very difficult to break. With what is now before us from the European Commission, the emergency plan, the Green Deal, they are drawing even more direction and power towards themselves. Then you will have a strong Europe, but that strong Europe works for businesses and for banks, and not for the people. It is really my belief that you need strong democracies with a strong parliament and a good debate, so that you can break the power of the big business and of the lobby there in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u73	I sincerely disagree with the SP, especially in this health and economic crisis. In the health crisis there is far too little cooperation and far too little coordination. I think that countries invent their own wheel far too much. You can see that with the vaccines. It's like a race to the button. That is precisely where Europe should cooperate more. But even in the economic crisis that this is, it is really an illusion to say that these countries should do so separately, and they should do so separately. No, it is very important that the Commission takes this forward. The cabinet has also said 'that's right' in its cabinet Juice. They do that for a good reason, because this is an unimaginable economic crisis, and you cannot deal with it separately as a country. Then it is our turn here to give our opinion. This is how we organised democracy. But that is what the European Commission is saying: 'our whole economy is in danger of falling apart if we do not do something quickly', that is a good thing. The alternative the SP sketches here is not clear to me. It is really not clear to me who is going to invest, who is going to get these companies credit again, and that economic recovery for the whole of the European Union is coming at a rapid pace. In this respect, I think Mr Wilders' story is more honest. He says "we're gonna do it all by ourselves; too bad about all those jobs, but then we're in charge." Even if we are in charge of enormous unemployment, it is a fairer story than saying: we are opposed to the Commission doing so, but we do not really know how to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u74	I find this disappointing, because I was just looking for what we could do together, even if you look at how to shape Europe differently. Mr Asscher knows very well how the SP sees it. We see this as a good cooperation, because it is necessary, but it is necessary, from countries, democracies where debate is taking place. This can be done at different speeds, as long as they release the whole dogma from a single housing market, a single labour market and a single financial market, because precisely the corona crisis shows that it is not. The boundaries had to be literally closed to keep the virus from spreading. Everyone was at the bar. There should be reflection on what is the most useful cooperation. I am very sorry that Mr Asscher is actually playing his part here in saying that the nexit story is more honest. No, if you can only say 'there is only a strong Europe and a European story if that European Commission can go divine and there are no alternatives', then you are really stuck in your mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u75	I heard Mrs Leijten first of all outline that the Commission is pulling all the power, that this is why things are going wrong and that it is much better to do it separately as countries. I disagree. If I have misunderstood or quoted her, I apologize immediately. If she talks about not having to go to a single European housing market, I totally agree. I believe that there is a great deal to improve and change in Europe, especially when it comes to worker protection, labour migration and healthy taxation. I just think you need Europe for that. We also agree that we can improve a great deal in its democratic legitimacy. I take that back, too. Of course that Wilders story isn't fair. He promises all kinds of golden mountains that aren't there. I know that, too. He knows that, too. But I think that we are making much progress by making improvements in this European cooperation and making sure that it is not the power of the market that wins it, but the power of the people, of the workers, without sketching the contrast between an unemployed Italian and an unemployed Dutchman, than if we pretend that it is not all the same. There was absolutely no intention of wrongly quoting Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u76	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u77	Mr. Chairman. It is good that the European Member States are committed to tackling the crisis. Solidarity is not only there because of our shared history, but also because of our shared future. The CPB spoke of "solidarity and understood self-interest." Those are not just fine words, they are also very practical reasons for putting our hands out to the other. Our production chains are connected, we are each other's markets and we like to spend our summer holidays in those countries that are the worst hit now. Countries with a large tourism sector and many small businesses, such as Greece, Spain, Croatia and Italy, are expected to be hit hardest. A tone of compassion towards the countries most affected is therefore appropriate. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union supports the firm intention of the cabinet that it, like the Commission, wants to maintain structural reforms. Only if the countries which are now threatened by the need to fall with this recovery package are they firmly placed on their feet, will there be support for aid. We have nothing to gain from a European Commission which, like a permanent head of water with loans, pushes the economically weaker countries even further into the abyss. A strong Europe exists at the mercy of strong Member States. To this end, I would ask the Prime Minister: how does he guard the conditions for structural reform? How does he guard the temporality of this package? How does he ensure that real checkable milestones are agreed? Let us be honest, Europe just has a very bad track record in this area. How can it be ensured that all this extra borrowed money really ends up in the real economy, in companies and in households? The effect of years of quantitative expansion by the ECB is, above all, a ship with money desperately looking for a destination, with disastrous consequences such as zombie companies and overheated rents in the big cities. What makes this borrowed money different and will land with real people, real households and real companies? I'd like a response. It has to be said out loud that the amounts proposed by the European Commission have been taken out of the blue. The cabinet itself writes that there is no relationship between the analysis on the one hand and the size of the fund on the other. There is no justification for the amounts proposed and no distinction is made between the effects of the corona crisis and the financial situation of the countries prior to the crisis. I would like to stress to the Prime Minister that support for a plan can only come after a thorough analysis. I'm asking him that message, please. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The proposed recovery package has so far been completely uncontrollable in terms of efficiency and effectiveness. There will need to be more concreteisation layers to be used by the Christian Union to produce a "yea or nay." Hopefully this will be an incentive for the Prime Minister to use the upcoming meeting to make things clear and concrete, including goals, conditions, milestones, underpinning and frameworking. Apart from these uncertainties, I see a general trend towards the Commission in these plans which worries me. The Commission explicitly draws more power into the proposals, in particular through new own resources. Let us beware of the further transfer of sovereignty from our financial system. How does the Prime Minister look at this and does he agree that this is not the path we need to take to get out of the crisis? Two more comments on the Brexit, which is also on the agenda. Now that the corona crisis has kicked our economy's ass, we must anticipate a second thump by an increasingly probable no-dealbrexit, while the British economy is already Europe's most shrunk economy. British industry, the Confederation of British Industry, also sees the great danger of a no-deal. They are possible to poke for delay. It is therefore desirable for the EU to strengthen its links with British industry and express its support. Is the Prime Minister prepared to commit himself to this? Secondly, I call on the Prime Minister to continue supporting Barnier. It has been crystal clear in recent weeks: no fisheries agreement, no overall trade agreement. This link is essential for the Christian Union. Keep our Dutch fishermen in mind. If the UK were to deny Dutch fishermen access to their own waters, the disaster would not be seen over by the sector. Make sure that there are good agreements on reciprocal access to waters, even if a no-dealbrexit is unexpected. Please confirm this course. Finally, I wish the Prime Minister wisdom and stamina. Be united, but with a well-understood self-interest. I think you can leave Chopin's biography at home this time. Instead, I recommend the book Rubber. That is a beautiful memorial book, released at the time at the 100th anniversary of Vredestein. Prime Minister Rutte, when you speak to your colleagues, stand up for this wonderful company with a rich past and, if it is up to the Christian Union, also a rich future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u78	Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u79	What was the name of that book?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u80	Rubber. About the tiremaking at Vredestein, 100 years of Vredestein. The book is from 2008, 12 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u81	Well, that's appropriate. We've got rubber Rutte in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u82	I think you're very sharp today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u83	No, it's not exactly a compliment for a coalition companion to call a book called Rubber, when everyone says he has a backbone of rubber. We've known that for years. We knew about Greece. We know that now. He's always got a big mouth: we're not gonna do this and we're not gonna do that. Eventually, he always comes back and we still pay the Greeks. You will see that in July something really happens again which you do not want and he already knows that before he goes through the pump you already call him rubber Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u84	Let's see if we can get the book Rubber in the house by Friday. Then we'll give it to you when the Prime Minister goes to the European Summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u85	Then can we agree to give it to him together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u86	Then we'll hand it over together at a distance of five feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u87	Then that's a deal too. Mr Omtzigt has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u88	Mr. Chairman. It was not a joke of my colleague Mr Bruins to speak just now about the book Rubber. There's a factory in Enschede. That's where 1,000 people work. That factory has been there for 111 years, I say to Mr Wilders. His colleague was also invited this morning and did not come to the concerned workers, who are all at risk of losing their jobs because Hungary has given aid, so that the factory that looks like it was built there. 1,000 families are worried about their future. They are concerned because plans seem very abstract here, but lead to the distribution of subsidies and sometimes to a completely wrong choice. Will the Prime Minister make an effort to ensure that this does not happen? They don't just need jobs in Hungary. They're gonna need those too at Tata Steel. They need them in Twente at Enschede. Thank you for speaking to them, but they're counting on you. Those aren't jokes. I do recommend that you do not read books this time, at least, not during the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u89	Let's talk about this point. Too bad we weren't there, but all the support for Vredestein and all those people. This is exactly where things go wrong. We are giving money to Europe and, ultimately, European subsidies are removing jobs here. What you're calling is the perversion of the whole system, isn't it? We can only solve this if we leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u90	In the case of Vredestein, it was not a subsidy, but it was a Hungarian subsidy, which was not, by the way, European money. They have been granted an exception for the European support measures, in my view on the wrong grounds, because they submitted them three days before the new framework, on 27 June 2014, while the new framework would be delayed by six months on 1 July 2014. Under that new framework, it was forbidden to move a factory, which makes sense. You may help to set up a factory, but you are not meant to create problems elsewhere in Europe. This is where the Dutch government has to make a call in Brussels of "we don't do this," but b do something for Vredestein to make sure it stays open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u91	Once, at all, but that is, as you yourself say, with the agreement of Brussels? You say that it is too late, at the last minute; we should not have done that. But it is Brussels, again, that with that consent, with which you seem to disagree, the perversion has also been realized in this area for Vredestein. We didn't do that, did we? Isn't that what Brussels did?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u92	Well, we didn't object to that at the time. I think that is still very stupid, I can assure you, because it was already clear at the plant at that time, and I happen to know her a little better, because I live near it, that this was a possible outcome. As far as I am concerned, the Netherlands sometimes has to wake up in Brussels when important decisions are taken there. And, as you know, I say to Mr Wilders, through you, of course, Madam President-in-Office, that I am awake when decisions are taken in Brussels on pensions, on the distribution of money and on the closure of factories. That is why I am standing here in good time when we do not like these decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u93	I am not blaming Mr Omtzigt for anything. You don't have to shoot all the way into the defense. I don't blame you. I believe you are genuinely fighting for that. But my question was not whether Mr Omtzigt is awake or not. My question was that it is Brussels that has made the wrong decision here. The misery has started whether we are awake or not because Brussels apparently made that exception, which they should never have done. The Netherlands didn't do that, did they? Isn't that what Brussels did?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u94	Hungary applied for permission to do so and the Netherlands did not object. The Netherlands itself can do the same. Mr. Chairman. I like it a lot. I've been working on this file here for months. This happens often here in the Chamber; I often do so with Mrs Leijten. If I say something here, everyone jumps right up here: can it be arranged in two seconds? Shall I tell you a secret? It won't be settled in two seconds. This is months of work, and that is why I will ask the Prime Minister to work hard for those jobs and to say a little less "yes, we can blame Brussels today," which we are very happy to do here. No, we've made mistakes of our own, and no, we're going to have to make sure that that kind of factory stays alive. And yes, not everything in Brussels is going well. Besides, things don't always go well in this cabinet either, but I'm just saying that in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u95	I would like to join the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u96	Oh, it would be perfect if you were in it, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u97	Things are really bad in this cabinet. But again, don't be so hard on your toes. I don't blame you at all. It's very good that you're standing up for this, so you shouldn't have stepped on your toes. No one insults you here, and there is no one who doesn't give you all the credit you like and deserve. My point is that it was done by Brussels. I'm not saying it has to be resolved by tomorrow. It would be nice, but I know that's not possible. The problems have arisen here, because Brussels made that mistake. That is the problem of the European Union. They do. They have a game there in Hungary and they have it in the Netherlands. They decide it's a big black box and it happens. Without that decision in the European Union, in Brussels, that would have been better for Vredestein in the Netherlands. You can't disagree with me on that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u98	I disagree with you, and I will explain to you why. We have a single internal market in the European Union. There are criteria of fair competition. Those rules were amended in 2014. From 2014 this was no longer allowed. Of course, it was clear why. You do not want people from relatively richer regions to be so rich as Twente, I tell you to move away to poorer regions. At that time, that framework was changed and they allowed it under the old framework. So strangely enough, the solution here is not 'less Brussels', but: more supervision from Brussels, so that it does not succeed anymore. That may be a solution that not everyone likes, but here Hungary has played the game handy. But I would like the Dutch government to do the same. I am still curious, by the way, which government from the last 70 years did like Mr Wilders in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u99	First year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u100	I see something blooming somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u101	Yeah, me too. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u102	It's getting really exciting. You were not happy with that either, Mr President, in a different form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u103	I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u104	If they're gonna hang out here, they're gonna do it again. I think they remember each other from their group. Mr President, I shall begin with my speech. We are in a very serious crisis in Europe: the worst crisis since the 1930s and perhaps since then. This is a point where the European Union can show its added value. We will necessarily have to come out of the recession together, in countries that are increasingly interwoven. Production chains start in the Netherlands and lead through Germany to cars that drive in France, where Dutch tires are underneath, German parts are in and which are eventually finished somewhere else. Countries will have to come out of the crisis together, or we will end up in prolonged depression. We shouldn't have that. But that does not mean that the Netherlands must say 'yes' to every European plan. We need a sensible plan. The CDA Group supports the efforts of the Dutch Government in this regard. This means that countries must be able to help themselves. Now we'd like to know what's going on with coalition formation right now. We support the commitment to using loans rather than subsidies. We also support the great reluctance when it comes to European taxation, and we support the clear article in the Financial Times today, with the other countries of the 'cautious four' in Europe. What about these coalitions and how can we make sure that something wise comes out? That starts with the division; my colleague from the Christian Union has already mentioned this. It is very strange that the European Union is already thinking of the extent of the damage caused by the covid crisis and of the very large package that is already in place to be able to distribute it to the last euro. I don't know. That is the disadvantage of a crisis: at the beginning of a crisis you really don't know what the impact is at the end. With second waves and so on, that can be even very nasty surprises. Then you could have helped the wrong countries completely. We had a debate here six months ago when I said in the first plan: 'Why Hungary and Poland as the biggest recipients?'. Mr Wilders referred to this. The problem at the time was in Italy and Spain, which could really use some help. How are we going to ensure that this commitment of the Netherlands becomes the central focus? This commitment is supported not only by the four, but also by a number of other countries, such as Belgium, Germany and Finland. If you want to solve a problem, you have to have a proper problem analysis. Then it should not be the case that Hungary gets the largest amount of money again, while countries that really have problems remain in trouble. Can the Dutch Government say that it only agrees with a plan if there is a clear link between the aid provided, mainly in loans with strict conditionality, and the damage caused by corona? I say honestly that this does not just have to be health damage. A number of countries to which we are happy to hand over here, I refer to Greece, have done well in the corona crisis. They've done a good job. Greece has less than 200 deaths, and that country is not much smaller than we are. They have had good policies there, but they do have serious economic damage because of the tourism sector. It is therefore not the case that those who have no damage in the form of large mortality have been ridden here without damage. Still, there's got to be a link. I do not want to see Poland and Hungary again at the end of the day. Two. That rule of law mechanism must be very rigid and remain in it. Because if the state of law in the Union breaks down, in the MFF or here, then we all have a problem. Because then we won't be able to trust courts in Poland. I would like to discuss the police in Malta separately once again, but there are serious problems there. Mr. Chairman. I come to a number of other things that I see. How do we ensure democratic legitimacy in that fund, so that there is no blackmail but consent from both countries and the European Parliament? The European Central Bank seems to be considering setting up a bad bank with all kinds of bad loans. I do not know any central bank in Europe that has ever set up a bath bank, let alone that the ECB should. How does the Dutch government assess this plan? Is it even part of the ECB's tasks under the European Treaty? If so, I can be told where these tasks lie. Repayment, because money is not free, must start on time. Not somewhere in 2048 but inside the MFK. Will the Dutch Government make a commitment to this? We have strong hesitations with grants, so now subsidies that are going to be loans. Of course, that would be fun, because it wouldn't be public debt. But of course it's government debt, because you know you're gonna have to pay it back later. By definition, it's not guilt, but of course it's something you have to pay back. Mr. Chairman. If there are recovery plans: the Netherlands is also quite affected. Read the CPB, read what happened to our health care. Are there also recovery plans for the Netherlands, for those hundreds of thousands of people who lose their jobs? I'll be on Vredestein in a moment, as a separate case. But doesn't this mean that we're going to have another European plan in which all the high-speed lines in Spain and Italy run, but between Copenhagen and Amsterdam where there's really no way to travel by train? Why is that? How come when we have an internal transport system, we are often forgotten? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the Brexit. We'd forget, but if we had a pruning...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u105	You can finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u106	It's about the Brexit, and I just don't think he's gonna talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u107	All right, then Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u108	I thought it was a good time to ask Mr Omtzigt about the recovery plan in conjunction with the Multiannual Financial Framework. I can follow many of his questions very well, but if you assume that the impact of the covid pandemic could be unprecedented economically, that is what the CPB told us yesterday, for example, then you could also imagine that this would have consequences for, for example, the way in which we co-finance a solution via Europe. I deliberately ask the question a little general, because it has been said for a very long time by the CDA that there should be no extra money to Europe and that there should be no additional payment. Has that changed now? I would like to ask Mr Omtzigt this because he himself says that we will have to get out of this crisis at European level. Has the expected impact of this pandemic changed anything in the attitude of the CDA to the rather essential question of whether the Prime Minister could ultimately come back from Brussels and say that it will cost us a little more, but that you have something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u109	Yeah, I'm not assuming this MFK remains within the original 1% limit. That was the stake, and I assume that there will be a recovery plan on top of that. I would ask the government to shape that recovery plan in such a way that it is a one-off and that the next time the MFF rolls through if you do not have an agreement, which is exclusive of a recovery plan. Because that recovery plan was only there for this pandemic. But the impact is so great that this also justifies an additional intervention to emerge from this crisis together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u110	For the sake of clarity, does this mean, quite apart from how the recovery plan will eventually be financed, because that can of course be done in a variety of ways, which also applies to the MFF, that the original attitude of the cabinet but also of a majority in this Chamber does not allow a penny to be added to the Netherlands, now that the pandemic is a thing of the past, including as far as the CDA is concerned? Isn't that what I can conclude from this answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u111	No. With regard to the MFF, the stakes remain as they are. I am only saying quite honestly that a package will be added to that. That package must be one-off, but the MFF is not very far from what the Commission originally intended. You can see this in the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u112	In conclusion, I believe that Mr Omtzigt himself mentioned the 1% in his first reply and said that we can no longer hold on to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u113	No, the MFF plus the recovery plan will not be possible within the original framework. That seems quite obvious to me. Otherwise nothing can happen within the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u114	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u115	The MFF does, but for the plan that comes with it, just decent extra space is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u116	I should like to congratulate Mr Omzigt in particular. I have sometimes wondered recently what the CDA's course is for Europe. We have recently heard, among other things, the MEP Esther de Lange, who said: the solution to this crisis lies in Europe. Last week we heard former Prime Minister Balkenende, who also made an appeal to the Netherlands: take a constructive stance on this European recovery fund. That is what I am hearing in Mr Omtzigt's words. I think he is right to say that the MFF plus, that European emergency fund, will not succeed within that 1%, but that we must do so with the right framework conditions so that the money is also well spent. My supplementary question to him would be: how long do you think we should conclude this agreement in Europe? In view of the enormous impact of the economic crisis, how much time do we have to reach these European agreements? Does he agree with me that it would be okay if that deal was concluded soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u117	I do not entirely agree with that, and that is because aid packages have been agreed for the short term in the Ecofin, such as loans from the ESM, which have not yet been used by the countries. "Null" says the Prime Minister here outside the microphone. Zero of those loans have been used. The business finance instrument and the SURE instrument have not even been used. So all those people who are now saying in an emergency 'it has to be because otherwise there will be no funds available tomorrow' are really wrong. That does not mean that we have to slow down to slow down, but I do share the call to have a good analysis of what is wrong and, I say honestly, perhaps some flexibility and perhaps not up to the last billion euros "the last euro" is a little vaguely defined exactly what you are going to spend in seven years' time. Because we are still in the middle of this crisis and we may not yet know exactly which country is suffering from it in a second wave or in another way. I would find it very unwise to set the total amount now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u118	I very much agree with that: the European Union's seven-year budget is really an outdated concept. It is far too inflexible; you are far too unable to respond to current events. So I support Mr Omtzigt's appeal. But I would also like to ask him this: let us not fight to death about the analysis or whether it should be 750 billion or 500 billion or 800 billion. In my opinion, the message must be that we not only have the European Central Bank which invests in the European economy with loans, but also the governments, the countries, the Member States, together with the European Commission, are able to send out a strong signal: we are driving the European economy, we are doing what is necessary and we are going to see how we can spend it as wisely as possible in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u119	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u120	Yes, Mr. Chairman. There is still a middle way between "not talking about it" and "fighting to death" if the difference between 850 billion and 500 billion is 350 billion. Well, then, as far as I'm concerned, it's okay to have a little fight about that. There are fights here about childcare allowances and people in trouble, there are fights about whether we should increase the rents here a few percent, there are fights about whether we can provide certain libraries, and at Mr Jetten perhaps the concert hall which also needs a few hundred million more. If we were to fight over 100 million, I would not be too frivolous about 350 billion in Europe, I would say. With us, there's the difference in the MFK. That's got to stay the way it is. I'm just saying you can capture a little more there. In those seven years you can say a little more 'we set the priorities', just as we plan ahead here. Maybe we can learn something from that, because in the Netherlands we think we are always planning only one year ahead. That is something else with the package around the crisis. That's just inherently more insecure. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the Brexit. These negotiations seem to have reached an impasse. In fact, there seem to be only two options: either there is still considerable negotiation and there will be some kind of free trade agreement, or there will be a very tough Brexit. In both cases, the Netherlands is hit harder than we dare to realize here. It's the British's right to do this, but is our Customs done now? Are we going to prepare ourselves for full scale in the summer, in addition to the problems we already have: a sharp rise in unemployment, the high deficit, the human problems, to ensure that on 1 January we do not have the people we have at work in traffic at Rotterdam or towards Calais or wherever we are going to Great Britain? Mr. Chairman. Unilever's going to Britain. This means that there will also have to be an agreement on a tax treaty with Britain, because apparently the British want to set up some sort of tax haven there. I would actually like to ask to what extent such a tax treaty is part of the negotiations with the United Kingdom, what we are going to have in the years ahead of tax treaties and how we are going to deal with Great Britain. I'd like a comprehensive answer to that. And if that doesn't work now, then by letter, because this is going to be crucial, I can assure you. That's the disadvantage of being a tax spokesperson: then you know why they do it. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something about Vredestein. I did it in an interruption, but I'll say it here. Europe is not an abstract thing. This European cooperation did not erupt together in Beethoven. That's good, but Europe is only if you live in Enschede and you can take the train to Münster, and if you don't drive a boom anymore. And that there will be high-speed trains between Amsterdam and Copenhagen, if that continues. Europe is that these jobs are at least as important here, and that our Prime Minister is fighting just as hard for them as all the other countries. Europe is that we can work together to ensure that we make vaccines here together, that we ensure that we have good health care, and that we ensure that it does not matter whether those products are produced in France, Germany or the Netherlands. And Europe is that together we come out of this crisis well, but each with its own responsibility in its own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u121	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I have followed with some surprise the escapades of the marketing department of the European Union a little bit. With a lot of bombabre and with a lot of bokito breast-crash, all kinds of programs are announced: EU4Health, Next Generation EU rescue... I thought, guys, that marketing department is really busy and trying to sell it all nicely. And all this to cope with the economic damage caused by the corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. You will not be surprised that the SGP is extremely critical of this. Let there be no misunderstanding about it, and I would like to emphasise this here too: it is not about the starting point that within the EU, in cooperation with each other, you must necessarily tackle the consequences of the crisis. This is not the subject of discussion. This discussion is about how this approach should take shape. And then I look first at the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery Fund. The cabinet has rightly asked for an analysis of the need for the recovery package: how large should it be, how should it be set up? And then some figures have been put together, but we cannot yet speak of a thorough analysis. The cabinet is therefore going to ask for a more detailed explanation, very well. There are a few questions we would like to put to you. Is the Prime Minister also going to ask for a country-by-country explanation so that this can also be seen more clearly? And also that we can weigh ourselves: do we support the direction in which financial support is given to a certain extent, or do we think it should be aligned in a different direction? And the question is: should not the measures already taken by the EU, the ECB, but also by the Member States themselves, be taken into account much more explicitly in this analysis? Look, it doesn't make much sense to come up with a triple solution to one problem. The Commission proposes a temporary loan of 750 billion. The SGP sees it as a high risk that this temporaryity becomes de facto permanent in practice. To what extent does the Prime Minister share this concern? It is good that the cabinet is critical of the proposal to finance expenditure with loans. At the bottom of the line, more Dutch taxpayers' money goes to the EU. I read that the cabinet is going to ask questions about the compatibility of this construction with the principles of Union treaties on the financing of the EU budget. My question is specific: when does the Prime Minister or the Cabinet intend to clarify this? That question is also extremely important for us as a House of Representatives. I also read in the EU's warning: 'The Netherlands remains reluctant about new own resources'. How exactly am I supposed to weigh that? Here, the cabinet opens up some scope for direct EU taxes, or even for direct EU taxes. levies and everything related to them? I would like a reflection on that. Mr. Chairman. The Commission intends to set up a Recovery and Resilience Facility of EUR 560 billion. Is it true that this fund is aimed at the overall resilience of the EU and that it de facto draws a piece of national responsibility from each of the Member States to ensure their own resilient economy within the EU sphere of action? Is the Commission not going to deal with the effects of corona here? This proposal builds on the €17 billion budget instrument for competitiveness and competitiveness. It's been negotiated for a long time. Now that pot is 33 times the size and this proposal needs to be quickly tapped. I would like a reflection from the Prime Minister on this. Support must go hand in hand with much-needed reforms. I very much agree with all those colleagues who have already made this point, and I would like to add the question: how is the cabinet going to ensure this conditionality and what is the specific situation of the EUR 50 billion REACT-EU? The Commission sees itself as a driver of climate and agricultural policy, so it is taking on far-reaching, binding ambitions. A question to the Prime Minister: how does the Prime Minister prevent the Green Deal from polluting the discussion on the recovery package for the corona crisis? Then I had one more point about the Brexit. I will confine myself to the questions, because I also find the concerns and tensions that have been expressed in this respect among colleagues. The questions are next. What is the planning of the approval procedures within the EU Member States? Are we as a government and business still sufficiently prepared for a no-deal scenario, or have we left that behind? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u123	Thank you. I actually want to suspend for two minutes, then we will continue with the rest of the speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u124	I give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are in an unprecedented crisis. It also requires unprecedented efforts in the coming years to get back on top; everyone agrees on that. Unfortunately, however, we do not agree on the question of who will be presented which part of the account and in what form. On top of the EUR 1,100 billion needed over the next seven years for the Multiannual Financial Framework, the European Commission also wants to create a EUR 750 billion recovery instrument, Next Generation EU. These are staggering amounts, especially if you look at the ECB's liquidity support of possibly 1,350 billion. The arguments for this are increasingly difficult to sell in larger parts of the 50PLUS population. For many years, older people and pensioners have been experiencing the shadowy aspects of the policy of this cabinet and previous cabinets imposed by Europe. Over the past few years, older people have been forced to make the bulk of the cuts needed to reduce the budget deficit and public debt. It is largely thanks to the ECB's policy that interest rates in Europe have become so absurdly low. Part of the Netherlands has benefited greatly from this. People with mortgages, entrepreneurs and banks were the beneficiaries. That is why Klaas Knot was also able to declare last week as President of De Nederlandsche Bank that the Netherlands, in particular, had benefited more from the ECB than Italy, for example. But why has there been so much resistance to Europe among the 50PLUS supporters? This is because our own governments have laid the burden on the elderly rather than sharing the benefits fairly. Due to the self-chosen systems of your arm calculating with an under-calculation rate, pensions have not been indexed for 12 years. That is why the AOW age also had to rise irresponsibly quickly and there had to be substantial cuts in the care of the elderly. This is where the minister hid behind Europe, the 3% deficit standard and the 60% sovereign debt standard to implement his own agenda. Not Europe or the ECB, but its own government is primarily responsible for putting our pension funds in enormous trouble. Now there is a Multiannual Financial Framework for the EU and a set of plans to deal with the impact of the corona crisis. For 50PLUS, it is very important that both the effects of the crisis and the ordinary financing of the EU are borne in the most equitable way possible between countries and between generations. That is why we are not so hard on loans either, because if the Dutch recipe for austerity is brought to a standard in the rest of Europe, then the rest of Europe is also hitting the elderly and the weak in the labour market. What you don't want to happen, don't do to anyone else. Last Monday at the technical briefing it appeared that there is still much unclear as to where exactly the money will go. In part, this is due to the lack of clarity of the criteria. 50PLUS therefore calls for more clarity on these criteria, so that we can now and in the future check whether the money ends up properly. The same applies to own income or income. taxes in Europe. We want to preserve our own sovereignty in the field of taxation. But a CO tax on imports from outside the EU or a tax on tech companies, in which individual countries cannot make a fist, is more a practical issue for us than a matter of principle. Does this mean that the Dutch citizen will have to pay less on balance? What can be promised about this already? The fact that citizens are going to pay less is also more important than the question of the exact relationship between donations and repayment of loans. Mr. Chairman. Today the Brexit is also on the agenda. This will be a major disaster for the ordinary British, aggravated by the corona crisis, which strikes harder than in the rest of Europe. But also the Netherlands is affected by the Brexit, especially if it becomes a no-dealbrexit. 50PLUS hopes it doesn't have to come to that, but at the same time sees the need to keep your back straight in the negotiations. We see no reason for Barnier to make more concessions than has already been done. I agree with the questions on the tax treaty with the United Kingdom. And then finally, Peacestein. I certainly recommend reading the book Rubber. With Mr Omtzigt around the corner is the factory, which would be closed. In the seventies the factory received all kinds of Hagenaars, because Vredestein was first a nursery with me around the corner in The Hague. That's why it's called Vredestein. However, the factory was closed in the 1970s, while in the sixties 1,000 people worked. For them was not physical, but mentally the distance to Enschede was at least as large as that to Hungary. So this is not a relativization of the importance of keeping Vredestein here, because Vredestein is and should remain a Dutch company.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u126	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u127	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. All European countries face the economic consequences of the corona crisis, but not all EU countries are equally able to maintain their public investment. This threatens to leave the economic recovery in the European Union behind, at least in a number of countries. That is not in the interests of those countries themselves, it is not in the interests of the Netherlands as a trading country that exports a lot, and that is not in the interests of the European Union as a geopolitical bloc that should consist of economically strong countries. So we have to do something about that. Fortunately, the European Union has already done a lot. The budgetary rules have been temporarily abandoned so that the countries can borrow more. There's an ESM emergency fund. The European Investment Bank is spending money, and the ECB is also trying to support economies and debt. It is important not only to show solidarity, but also to do so wisely. That's why it's good, and so does the Cabinet, to get a good idea of what the problem is first. The cabinet writes a rather business letter to the Chamber saying that there is no need for a need assessment, say an analysis of what the problem is and how you solve it. The question follows: how big should this fund be if you do not know how big the problem is that you want to solve and what you have to do for it? Nor is the question: what can the European Union do? But above all, what can the European Member States do first of all? So let us do those analyses and not simply draw a symbolic amount as a symbol of action. Let's do that with wisdom and careful, because you can only scare your gunpowder once. Is there any more clarity, I ask the Prime Minister, about this need assessment? Are there any better analyses? Last week, during an earlier debate, I asked the Foreign Minister the following question. I said: the European Commission has an economic model. If you spend money, it will lead to economic growth, but is that really true? I hope so, but perhaps the CPB, our own independent Central Planning Office, can look at the models used by the European Commission, the methods contained in these models, the assumptions and the limitations; the QUEST model is called that in the jargon. That is the model of the European Commission. If you are supporting other countries, this must be accompanied by macroeconomic conditions, as a condition for support. That is also good for those countries themselves, because that is how they emerge stronger from the crisis. The new European budget must also focus on this. It needs to be more modern, i.e. less towards cohesion, less towards agriculture and more towards innovation, climate and migration. I have said it before: the European Union's budget is not so authoritative. If you look at how it's being evaluated, it's actually happening too little. It is very simple: the evaluation states that every euro of agriculture delivers €2.3. Then you'd say you'd have to put all your money into agriculture, and not just that, you'd have to multiply it. But of course that's not true. So we are talking about a budget that has hardly been properly evaluated or not properly evaluated. That is a pity, because that is not good for the authority of that budget. If we look at February, but perhaps I'm naive, then you can see that all countries are looking at themselves again. Take the French President who first made a Sorbonne speech with all proposals for an improvement in Europe, but when it comes to it, it's just about money for French farmers. Is that bad? No, because countries have their own interests. Is that disappointing? Yes. So we have to look through these great European visions occasionally and see that countries think of themselves. And when are you gonna show solidarity? You want to help each other with the European budget if you also share some of the same values. But look at Poland. A third of that country has been declared lhbt-free. They don't want to. Gay people, lesbians, transgenders: they don't want that. A few days ago, the President of Poland referred to Ihbt ideology as worse than communism. Yes, I understand that there is reluctance in the Netherlands to give money to such countries. Poland is the largest net recipient and is the last to be on the lists concerning the rights of these people. And then the emphasis on the rule of law. It has just been said by colleagues: the rule of law is not abstract, because if the Polish judges are not independent, that means that Dutch judges no longer extradite Polish suspects to Poland. And that is not good for safety in the Netherlands. So stick to those conditions about the rule of law when you give money to countries. The rule of law must be in order. Much has already been said today about the recovery fund. As far as the VVD is concerned, that is a limited fund that is temporary, with a hard and automatic expiry date and without any possibility of renewal. It's not about gifts, it's about loans with harsh conditions. And no eurobonds: we are not going to do that, and that is not in the proposals either. And as I said, the money must be accompanied by reforms. Furthermore, it must go to the right countries, i.e. those most affected. Is that what is happening in the current proposal? If this proposal from the European Commission were to continue unchanged, what is not meant to be, then where will the money end up? Is it going to end up with the countries most affected, or are we going to use other criteria, which means that the money will end up in countries that are not or are less affected by the corona crisis? And what reforms are we going to ask of countries? Are reform plans linked to milestones and progress? Will the money come back if a country doesn't make any progress? And who is actually reviewing these reform plans? Who's checking progress? And is recovery possible if countries fail to comply with the reforms? In doing so, ownership is important and it is important that it is a loan. If you have a loan, you're economical. Then you have to borrow the money, and then you have to think carefully: is it wise if I borrow money for this? Is ownership also in order in a country such as Italy, a country mentioned here? I remember that I was an election observer in that country two years ago on the first weekend of March. The result was that the parties achieved a majority of votes against the European Union and against the reforms requested by the European Union. And then those parties formed a coalition, too. So is money, spent on countries where the population is not keen on reform at all, well spent money? Then how do you guarantee that's gonna be okay? Then the coalition formation; the frugal four. There are many names for it: the wise four, the wise four. My mother from Drenthe would say "the knee-peckers." But how is this coalition formation going? Is it still in order? It's wise for the Prime Minister to do this. Perhaps there are other countries with which the Netherlands can form bonds. So I'd like a reaction to that. Finally, Brexit. We saw a videotop last Monday. There was talk of momentum and the intensification of negotiations. Fine, but what is ahead of the European summit next Friday? Are there any decisions being made there? Other colleagues have already asked: how is the Netherlands prepared for a no-dealbrexit? When is the time for the Dutch cabinet to say: from now on, are we going to start preparing for the no-dealbrexit? Finally. The VVD prefers a deal. A deal with the British. A deal in Europe to make sure that we come out of this crisis stronger together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u128	Mr Mulder also saw the importance of a substantial European recovery fund to deal with the economic recession as effectively as possible. I'm glad. I have heard him give many conditions to the Prime Minister for the negotiations in the coming weeks, but I have not actually heard one topic come across, namely own resources for the European Commission. It was VVD group chairman Klaas Dijkhoff who recently said on the radio "I am prepared to look open to indirect European taxes so that we do not have to raise our own contribution, but you will raise enough money to finance that emergency fund." Is that also Mr Mulder's view that it is wise to look at indirect European taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u129	Last time, I said: Mr Jetten is running out of the Dutch position. Then the coalition agreement would be broken open. That didn't happen. Then you announced it again. I have also addressed the chairman of the group: has it been broken? No, no, nothing. Now I see that Mr Jetten is mainly trying to get things out of the cabinet letter that fit in his style. It's like the VVD is for a big recovery fund. I just said, and that's what the Cabinet says: a large recovery fund? Let's see what we need first. We've seen everything: 2 trillion, 1.5 trillion, 500 billion, 750 billion. Everyone pulls the wet finger. But let's see what we really need. If Mr Jetten says "the VVD is for a large recovery fund"... ah. Then there is the own resources. Mr Jetten is trying to draw that towards him, but the letter simply says "resisting." That's not a change in this cabinet at all. In the same kind of letter, it was written exactly the same way two years ago. Since I am not opening the coalition agreement, I do not know why Mr Jetten is always trying to pretend that it is coming to his side. I see above all in the letter from the cabinet 'critical', 'unwanted' and'resisting'. Those are the words. If Mr Jetten thinks it's coming his way, fine. But I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u130	My question was whether Mr Mulder agrees with his own group chairman that it is wise to look openly at European indirect taxation. We know the VVD as a party that always firmly opposes a higher Dutch contribution to Brussels. That is a very valid point that you are making as a party. That's up to you, too. But we also heard Mr Omtzigt, who said "you're not going to get an MFF plus that European recovery fund within the 1% we've been hammering on for so long as the Netherlands." So it is a very fair question that I ask you: are you prepared to look at indirect European taxes? Because then we also know how we can ultimately weigh the negotiating agreement in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u131	Let me turn to the words 'European taxes'. Is that right? They're talking about plastic. We need to get a good look at what that is. Is that a tax? No. It's a foundation. As we are now partly funding the European Union on the basis of our gross national product, where it is a percentage of "recyclable plastic', you say, we are now going to see how much recyclable plastic there is in a country. If you do it well as a country, you don't have to carry much and if you don't do it well, you have to pay more. It's not a tax at all, it's a base. That's something completely different. But Mr Jetten asks me: what do you think of taxes? Well, we're against that. But it's just being pretended to be this and that. It's not a blue envelope from Brussels. You can look at it, but we're like VVD, like the cabinet, reluctant. Just grab the GNI. That is very clear and transparent. Then you know exactly what you're paying, period. That would be preferred by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u132	Finally. I agree with Mr Dijkhoff a little bit more, because I think it would be very sensible to allow polluting Chinese companies to pay European taxes indirectly. I think it would be very wise to have tech companies that do not pay taxes anywhere also pay to the European emergency fund. This will not cost the Dutch citizen anything, but it will provide us with additional resources to reverse the tide of the economic crisis in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u133	If you say you want to break the coalition agreement, I would say knock on the door and do it! Do it instead of always yelling: I agree with that or that. Just straight forward: I want this, I want that. Period. That'll do me some good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u134	I could say "I don't have anything to add to that," but then I'd have to sit down again. This is an interesting debate. One coalition party says that the cabinet has moved in our direction. The other coalition party says: fortunately, the cabinet retains its original position. They can't both be right. I would like to ask Mr Mulder of the VVD. He represents the party that has always said that the bill should not be raised by the Brexit. But now we have not only a Brexit, but also a covid pandemic. Isn't that what changed the position of the VVD? Doesn't the VVD also see that the whole time being cramped is not going to help us cope with this terrible crisis, which has just begun?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u135	I told you before, if you want to spend money, do it wisely. If you look at the current European budget, you can get something off. It is the agenda of the 1980s, with agriculture and cohesion. What is the European Commission doing with the so-called "Just Transition Mechanism" with a difficult word? The money for Eastern Europe is being increased in this MFF. Does that have anything to do with corona? No. What the European Commission is doing, and what many people are doing, is never waste a good crisis: they are using the crisis to underline their own position once again. Come on, let's get some more money in here. That extra 30 million for that mechanism has anything to do with corona? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You can take that out easy. That is how I look at this budget: quite critically and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u136	It has been said this morning by several colleagues: we do not yet have an idea of what the impact of the pandemic will ultimately be on our own economy, but also on the economy of all the other Member States in the European Union. You can say, like Mr Mulder, that we need to have a better basis for the amount proposed by the Commission. What if there's a better basis? What if that means that we need EUR 750 billion for the recovery fund? Does the VVD say: we now have the basis and we can agree to that? Or does the VVD say that there should not in any way be an extra cent to Europe, as it has always said? That's not very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u137	I have to answer a what-if question here, and then you always end up in a trap. It would be a good thing if there were an amount that was well substantiated. But that amount isn't the only one. The other question is: how are you going to finance that amount? That's one. Two, what are you gonna spend it on? What conditions do you make of that? Over the past week, I have been annoyed by the large sums of money going through Europe again. You need to back it up and be very precise. Maybe there'll be a second pandemic and you'll have shot your gunpowder already. So you have to do that very carefully and with wisdom. That is why we would like to have that analysis first and see what comes out of it. The VVD has never said that there can never, never, be extra money to Europe. We don't want that, but I never said nothing, nothing, nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u138	I asked because you can't do both. You cannot say on the one hand that there must first be a good justification and on the other hand take an advance on that justification by saying that the amounts are far too high. Maybe the amounts are too low. It is not a question of if-dan, but it is a question of the political position of the group of the VVD. What does the VVD say when the Prime Minister comes back from Brussels with good justification and it becomes a recovery fund of 750 billion? Does the VVD say no way, because that's gonna cost us money? Or does the VVD say it's well-founded so we can live with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u139	I've never been here "no way!" I would like to start by saying something about the European budget, but first of all I want to have that justification. It's important. We also need support! That money, that fund does not fall from the sky; that has to be paid by the Dutch taxpayer. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has also said 'I quoted that report earlier 'the Dutchman is rather lukewarm about the European Union'. He saw that it benefited from the internal market. He doesn't want to get out, as the PVV wants, but he doesn't want to pay too much for it either. So just if you want to have support for the European Union, you have to be very critical of spending the money, because that doesn't just fall out of the blue. It comes from the pockets of Dutch taxpayers. And then it's our duty to deal with wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u140	I have an addition to the point that Mr Mulder just made, because not only does the PVV want to come from the EU, but also the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u142	I am glad that Mr Baudet has come to say that again, because I have not seen him here in many debates. Then we'll remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u143	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u144	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch economy is currently facing unimaginably heavy blows. On the basis of the latest estimates presented yesterday, there has been an exceptional decline in economic activity of between 10% and 15%. Last week, the Dutch Bank talked about a historic low point for our economy and expects unemployment to double next year to 700,000 people. The budget deficit rises to an unprecedented level of 92 billion, while last year we had a surplus. Much has already been said about the causes of this economic crisis. When Corona showed up in the Netherlands, the cabinet, which was totally unprepared, remained hesitant for weeks to intervene and the virus could spread rapidly to all parts of the country. The lockdown that eventually followed, due to this original dawdling, had to last far too long. But now that the virus is under control, we need to look ahead. How do we get our country back on track as soon as possible? How do we make the Netherlands stronger out of this crisis? It is possible, if we make smart investments in our own country, to boost employment and give the economy a kick-start. But that's not gonna happen. While Dutch companies are threatening to go bankrupt and the Dutch are losing their jobs massively, our cabinet is about to invest many billions of Dutch taxpayers' money in countries such as Spain, Italy and Greece. That is blatantly shameless and in no way explainable. The European Commission's proposal for a recovery fund is purely aimed at transferring a staggering amount of EUR 750 billion from strong countries to less strong countries in a short period of time. The term "restoration fund" is extremely misleading. There is hardly any connection between the fund and the recovery of the corona crisis. The vast majority of those 750 billion euros will be distributed on the basis of unemployment rates between 2015 and 2019, population size in 2019 and gross domestic product in 2019: factors that have nothing to do with the corona crisis at all. Corona is thus being abused by the EU to enlarge the European Union and, at the same time, to push through within the EU the redistribution agenda that has been under way for years. However, the way this is done with this proposal is new. The European Commission is now going to take out loans on the capital market itself, which will then have to be repaid through the common EU budget. So common debts, while the Chamber explicitly called on the government never to agree to them. This brings the inevitable transfer union one step closer. How are these billions going to be spent? The Italian government uses the funds to give its residents a holiday bonus of €500. A basic income was introduced in Spain this month. How can this be explained to the Dutch, who are now losing their jobs and can no longer pay their bills? According to the plans, no less than 25% of the fund should be used to pay for Frans Timmermans' absolutely absurd climate plans. Not less than 25%! It is appalling to see that the cabinet seems to think it is normal and even welcomes the use of the corona crisis to build wind turbines and solar panels in Italy from Dutch money. What the Netherlands needs is a government that puts the importance of the Netherlands first. This should be absolutely self-evident, but unfortunately it still seems too much to ask. Rutte claims to be critical of the proposal, but we have heard fine words before. What's Rutte gonna do if he's not listened to? Is he going to take the action for the first time and say no? What should the Prime Minister do when it comes to the Forum for Democracy? On Friday, I will inform the European Council that the European Commission's proposal is non-negotiable and that under no circumstances can the Netherlands agree, because we have our own economy to recover. This proposal must therefore be vetoed. That is the importance of the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u145	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u146	Mr. Chairman. I've said it before. If we see one thing, it is that the outbreak of the coronavirus crises that already existed in society has deepened. There is a dormant crisis within the European Union when it comes to economic inequality between countries. We often talk about this with the Minister of Finance, but it is now on the agenda of the European Council. The contrast between countries such as the Netherlands which benefit greatly from international trade and a cheap currency and southern countries that suffer from it is great. That should be resolved with a different discussion like "we're going into a huge debt mountain together." Everyone who is talking about a recovery fund is wrong: it is a debt fund. To anyone who uses this covid outbreak to make debts together again, I say: you fall into a trap and into a story, never washed a good crisis, Mr Mulder just said it as well. First it was necessary for the Brexit, then it was about saving Italy because otherwise that country would go to waste and now you hear the same arguments for joint debt-taking, guaranteeing loans to countries in southern Europe: "It is really necessary now, because we have the corona outbreak." I do not think we should do that. I think we should look very carefully at how we can help each other. What does this outbreak of corona actually say about the state of the European Union and cooperation? We saw that immediately the boundaries closed and had to close in order not to spread the virus further. Things started to lie still, but things also went on. Migrant workers were at extra risk because the rules did not apply to them. That's to be ashamed of you! At the edges of Europe we saw that the rule of law, which was in fact already there, of people on the run, was deepened: people were shot when they crossed the border. This is a violation of human rights. There is an embarrassing discussion going on: can we help orphans in appalling conditions in Greek camps, where we are also afraid of outbreaks? Then we're out of the way. This also shows that you can have a ghastly face of solidarity without always saying that this is a European task. No, that's a job for us as humans. It is a task for politics not to look away from it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to that emergency fund, which I say is a debt fund. I'll support the cabinet when it comes with a backup and show you what it's for. Because we also see that the ECB is throwing all kinds of money into the economy. Is that going to end up in the households? Does that end up with companies? No, we know that large parts of it are paid directly to Shell's shareholders and all kinds of other large companies. What do these companies do? They sell their debts to ECB and can then use them for high dividend payments. Do something about that! It cannot be explained that dividend payments increase because the debt is parked at the ECB with a possible risk for us. If that remains the case, what the hell are we supposed to make these fine words of solidarity for? There's so much money. Make sure it's deployed wherever it's needed. Mr. Chairman. The SP does not rule out the need for an emergency fund, but we do not see it at the moment. We also do not rule out the possibility that you have to work with gifts or debt forgiveness. But it has to be. I think that's the sober look you need. I do not like the fact that the multiannual financial framework must now be increased because there is corona. It's being abused. I thought it was a good proposal from the Dutch Government, together with Austria, Denmark, Sweden and now Finland, I believe. There are all words put on: oh, they are economical and they are filthy. No, they're realistic, I'd like to say. See if you can't move that MFK, that very big shit, forward, which is the crisis that's actually been used with smart investments right now. You're hoping you'll get out quickly and need as little money as possible for disaster recovery. Actually, I think that's smart. I would certainly continue to bet on that. Mr. Chairman. There is much to say about money, for example that European money causes corruption, even authoritarian leaders in Europe stabs and gives them power. Look at the construction of Orbán. Look at Malta, too. Look at Poland. It is right that the VVD points out that it is bizarre that they are now going to declare that country gay-free. We really can't look away from that. Why can't we look away from a failed rule of law? This is not only bad for companies that are not protected in their commercial interests. It is especially bad for human rights: you cannot organize, not be who you are, not get security. If something should be European cooperation, it is that human rights are crucially right. They're crucial. We all know the interests of these companies. But they're not standing up. Those countries are not called upon to shoot asylum seekers at the border. I really think we have a job to do there. Then the Brexit. We fear a second wave of corona. Everyone's taking it into account. But those huge waves of the Brexit keep coming. I've always said that the strategy of separating first and then thinking about how we're going to have a relationship together was stupid. I see now that it's been stupid, too, because that new relationship isn't there. We're hitting a hard Brexit again by accident. Since that strategy of the European Commission has not worked, is bankrupt, I would like to see whether it is possible for us to make agreements like the Netherlands with the British on important crucial things, such as transport, trade and fishing. In this respect, European standards should indeed be the basis, but then we can ensure that the transport of flowers will be possible in due course. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say one more thing in connection with my debate with Mr Asscher. It is not that you are or for Europe and therefore believes that there should be a federation and a political union, or that you are against it and then get out. There are a lot of intermediate routes. Now that you see that the corona crisis shows that so-called European integration is actually not there and you have to think about cooperation in a different way, we are prepared to do so without turning your back on each other, but with respect for sovereign countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll take a look at the Prime Minister. He needs a suspension. Shall we do 1:30?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u148	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-2.u149	Then I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m.
