ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr J.A. of Kemenade. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister to the First Chamber. I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Jos van Kemenade, who died on 19 February last at the age of 82. He has been Minister of State since 2002. Josephus Antonius van Kemenade was born on 6 March 1937 in Amsterdam. In 1955, when he graduated from St. Nicolaaslyceum in Amsterdam, he went to Nijmegen to study teaching sociology, because the study he actually wanted to take, political science, did not exist there. At that time he could not know how both passions, education and politics would entangle themselves in his later life. He began in 1958 as a scientific assistant to the University's Sociology Institute. He then became director of the Institute of Applied Sociology and extraordinary professor of teaching sociology. When Van Kemenade became a member of the board of directors of the Catholic University of Nijmegen in 1972, he had already impressed PvdA leader Den Uyl with his expertise in this field during meetings on the future of education. Not long after, he was asked to be an education minister in the Den Uyl cabinet. He would be in two cabinets, namely also in the early 1980s in the Van Agt II cabinet. In the meantime, he was a member of the Second Chamber of the Labour Party and a special professor of education at the University of Groningen. After the second Van Agt cabinet fell in 1982, Van Kemenade became a member of the Second Chamber and again an extraordinary professor of education, this time at the University of Amsterdam. Two years later, he left active politics and became chairman of the board of directors of the University of Amsterdam. Jos van Kemenade would remain director for the rest of his working life: from 1988 to 1992 as mayor of Eindhoven and then ten years as Commissioner of the Queen in North Holland. From 2002 until his death, Jos van Kemenade served as Minister of State. In 1975 in the First Chamber he stood as Minister of Education opposite VVD senator Haya van Someren in the examination of the budget of his ministry. The VVD was not a warm supporter of middle school. Van Someren therefore dismissed ideas for a new educational system as "the model of an ideal already lost" in her words. Van Kemenade replied, and I quote: 'Education certainly can't do it alone, but it can be an important condition as part of an overall policy aimed at greater equality in society'. Looking back on his ministry, Van Kemenade was proud of the so-called stimulus policy. 2,000 schools received additional resources and manpower to help children with fewer opportunities from home. He also mentioned the financing of mother mavos and the primary school bill, which brought together preschool and primary education, as some of his greatest merits. Even though he realized that I quote again "if I die above 'The Man of Middle School'." In addition to his political and social career, Jos van Kemenade was involved in many organisations and served several advisory committees. For example, he was chairman of the curatorium of the Wiardi Beckman Foundation, the scientific bureau of the Labour Party, chairman of the College of Curators of the School of Journalism, chairman of the Contact Group Balances Second World War, also known as the Van Kemenade Committee, and chairman of the Board of Public Administration. Jos van Kemenade was known as a conscientious, friendly and approachable driver with an unbridled desire for work, but above all as a wise idealist for whom equal opportunities for all and citizen involvement in the administration were the main drivers. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-5.u2	When Jos van Kemenade was appointed Commissioner of the Queen in North Holland in 1992, het Parool wrote with a rave characterization: "He has always remained the minister who happened not to be in the cabinet." That is in line with what Van Kemenade said about himself in his memoirs, namely that he has always been more scientist and director than anything else. Many have already recalled, around his death, how, as Minister of Education in the Den Uyl cabinet, he was at the basis of a whole series of reforms and plans, from mother mavo to two-phase structure and from the glorious contour note to the "Den Uyl" you already mentioned, Chairman of the Middle School, as well as famed but also circumcised. Even as a Member of Parliament, he could not resist the scientific practice and the law-making and wrote both a thick standard work on education policy and a well-founded initiative-law proposal on adult education, a proposal which he could then consider as a minister in the short-term second Van Agt cabinet himself, and that seems to me to be a unique feature in our parliamentary history. In 2018, he was able to say with regret in his voice that the middle school had come with a second cabinet-Den Uyl. In short, Jos van Kemenade was a man of content and long-term, who was not afraid of administrative and policy views. In one of his first interviews as minister, he already sketched the picture of education in 1973 as a mammoth tanker that might not be so easy to steer, but could change course with small ticks. Or his staff in the department have recognized that image of those little taps, I doubt, because Minister Van Kemenade wanted to change a lot, and a lot at once. But the sense of reality that later characterized him as a driver, of course, was already in it. Although in his later years he was perhaps less stormy than when he acted as a young ruler, he was always consistent in his vision. What drove him was a deeply rooted belief that social inequality was bad for the country and bad for the individual. Good education for everyone was his way of doing something about it. To that principle, to that ideal, he remained faithful for his life, undoubtedly also from his personal experience as the first highly educated member of his family, a story that he has often told. In his later career, you outlined that, Chairman.......................................................................................................................................................... Because saying no to administrative responsibility was not in its nature. The Ministry of State that attacked him in 2002 was therefore a well-deserved crowning achievement on an impressive career in public administration. In that latter capacity, I was able to meet him personally a few times. I was impressed by his sharp and analytical mind. He could argue and relativize at the same time. That made him, perhaps precisely because of it, all the more persuasive. Mr. Chairman. At his farewell as President of the Public Administration Council in 2009, Jos van Kemenade held a firm and, of course, persistent plea for active citizenship as a foundation under a strong and well-functioning democratic system. That active citizenship he has, as it were, preceded us throughout his long and rich career in the service of the general interest. We commemorate him with gratitude and great respect. On behalf of the cabinet, I wish his family and other next of kin every strength in the processing of this great loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-5.u3	I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you.
