ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u1	The issue at present is the examination of the bill 35409 amending the Housing Market Act 2014 II. My name is the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations... I am waiting for attention to be paid to the debate. I would once again like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u2	I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u3	Mr. Chairman. Because not all Catholic churches are equally flourishing, it might be possible to put here such a bell that was always ringing before the consecration. It sounds really good and it always worked perfectly in church, so who knows? But further, your natural authority is sufficient to shut it down quite quickly here. Mr. Chairman. The bill repair rental tax for shared pleasure rentals is a strange proposal. It's a proposal with a schmuck's head. On the one hand, it is presented as a technical proposal which does nothing more than correct a looming error, without budgetary consequences, not many houses involved and which could actually have been dismissed as a hammer piece. On the other hand, the Minister says that if we do not fix this looming error very quickly, we run the risk of the whole soil being swept away under the landlord's levy and a gap of no less than 1.8 billion over this year alone and probably part of last year's total levy. Hence the great urgency and hence the exceptional inclusion of tax with retroactive effect in the legislative proposal. In short, this is a proposal with a sad head. If I say that, can the Minister understand that? Mr. Chairman. None of us knew until quite recently that there was a problem at all with the landlord's tax, except that most parties now want to get rid of the landlord's tax, with the exception of the VVD. But that there was a problem, the Supreme Court had already made two judgments in June 2018. The Advocate General had already warned for two years that there was a gap in the law. In summary, the law states that in the case of co-ownership and rentals, the landlord levy is imposed on that owner who receives the WZ charge. That, the Supreme Court said, is contrary to the principle of equality of the ECHR. A discriminatory regime cannot have effect against a taxable person, and so I think that since then no tax can be imposed and no landlord's tax will be imposed on co-ownership. The budgetary impact of the two judgments was limited. In one judgment, the State had to repay €77 to the party who won and in the other judgment €113. Perhaps that has put the two ministries not only to sleep in the Ministry of the Interior, but also to sleep in the Ministry of Finance. For a year and a half nothing has been done by the government, although the Supreme Court said: we ourselves are not going to prescribe how the law should be amended, that is a matter for the legislator. But the legislator did nothing, because he thought: for €77 and €113 we are not going to activate the machinery. But then it will be a year and a half later, at the end of 2019, and suddenly there will be an urgent letter from the Minister for the Environment and Living, at that time, to the Presidents of both Chambers, which says: we need to come up with an emergency law very quickly and in that emergency law we will also have to apply tax retroactively. For those of you who are less familiar: we never actually do that in laws, because saying with retroactive effect that someone should have done something is not appropriate in our legislative system. So obviously something happened back then. I've studied all the pieces, but I can't find what happened. I can only see that the Minister writes that there is an increase in taxpayers who rely on the principle of equality in paying the landlord's tax. I do not think that this can be about people who own rental homes in co-ownership, because they are already covered by those judgments of the Supreme Court. This means that it must be the other group, namely those who have full ownership and pay the full tax. Who are they in the Netherlands? Those are the housing corporations. Could it be, I would ask the Minister, that a lot of housing corporations, at least 200, lodged an appeal at the end of 2019 to the Tax Administration in which they said: we want the landlord's tax no longer to continue, because it is contrary to the law? In my view, at that time, they called themselves contrary to the House Act, but they also came on the table that it would also be contrary to the two judgments of the Supreme Court. In other words, could it be that the housing corporations said: if you do not have to pay a rental charge with co-ownership, then we call on the same Article 14 of the ECHR, because then we do not have to pay and so nobody really has to pay the landlord's tax? That sounds very strange and that was not communicated with us in any way, but I can only point out that. Is it possible for the Minister to say: then it became clear that we were at risk of 1.8 billion a year? That's exactly the landlord's tax. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that has been the case, because then I have to put this legislation in a different context. The government spent a year and a half sleeping and did not listen to the Supreme Court. She was then warned by someone I'd like to hear where those warnings came from so "Boys and girls, do you have any idea that this could pull away the carpet under the landlord's tax? Then we are EUR 1.8 billion poorer. Something must be done about this." And so now we have the emergency law and the retroactive force. If that was the case, I think the Chamber should have known. Then we should have been told: we have been careless and this is not a weave error, but the basis under the law. If corporations get the same thing as those two landlords from 2018, then the foundation under the law is gone. Then you have a very big problem, whether you're for or against the landlord tax. Then I think that the government should also be honest with us about the question: is it appropriate to include such a heavy substance as an incriminating retroactive force in the law when you have been sleeping yourself? We never actually do that, because it does not fit in with the rule of law. I would like to hear the Minister's response to that. Mr. Chairman. The strange thing is that when you study the file, you think: there's a lot that isn't told. There has been an extremely poor provision of information to Parliament. We have not heard anything in the first year and a half about these two special judgments of the Supreme Court. We didn't hear about that. When, at the end of 2019, it was announced that the Minister had retroactive effect, it was read that an increasing number of taxpayers invoked the principle of equality. We have not heard who they were, whether that was about a few Amsterdammers or Tilburgers or actually about the entire corporation sector. Finally, this discussion has been placed twice in the context of the landlord levy in the Second and First Chambers. I asked the Minister in my speech: what is the state of the big investigation into the landlord's tax? The minister said it's from the summer. I then said in committee: let us deal with the legislative proposal. But at the time the Minister wrote that in the reply, the report on the future of the social housing sector and the landlord levy, which we have read so much about in the newspaper over the last few days, was on her desk. I can't draw a different conclusion. I also think that this is not in line with the government's obligation to provide information. Mr. Chairman. Short and good, this looks like a technical law, but there's more to it. I do not think that it has gone well, especially in the relationship between the government and Parliament. We can see that again at this point. The main question is how the government should inform Parliament about legislation. It is still possible that I have only gotten into the head of mice and that the Minister says: it's a law of nothing, just say yes to it, no matter what, we'll just move on. For the time being, however, I am listening with great interest to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I see that the Minister has the opportunity to answer directly the questions of the Chamber. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox is asking questions that I think I can answer. I therefore hope to be able to reassure him on that point. Let me start by saying that it is simply about the law to which the landlord levy belongs. Whatever else you find of that charge, there is a law, namely the Housing Market Act 2014 II, which is in force. If a law is in force, it is the duty of the Cabinet and, in particular, of the Minister responsible to ensure that it works as well as possible. The purpose of the present repair legislation is to ensure that the landlord's tax is operated exactly as it was intended to work when the law was introduced. The amendment of the law does not extend the purpose of the law. It does nothing new at all, but it restores what was meant, namely a tax on both fully owned and co-owned dwellings. In two judgments, the Supreme Court held that the current legal provision on the levying of the landlord's levy in co-ownership situations is contrary to the principle of equality. According to the Supreme Court, the current legal system of allocation in co-ownership situations leads to unequal treatment. As a result of those judgments, co-owned housing is not currently included in the landlord's tax. That is what is being repaired in this repair legislation. Then Mr Kox asks why this has to be done quickly and retroactively. Are the Chambers sufficiently informed about the reasons for this? I'll start with those Supreme Court rulings first. Of course, different solutions were looked at directly. In the first instance, it was intended, in terms of timeline, to implement that legislative change by next year, 2021. However, in 2019, a large proportion of the full owners of the taxable person objected to the 2019 tax year. That was also reported directly to the Chambers, because in 2019, to be precise, on 20 December, a letter was sent to both Chambers in which this was mentioned. The full owners argue that, as a result of the decisions of the Supreme Court, the non-application of the co-ownership of the rental houses constitutes an unjustified distinction between fully owned and co-owned landlords. This can indeed potentially lead to a loss of income. In order to prevent further objections from being raised with the same budgetary risk over the next year of the levying year, the Cabinet therefore considers it necessary to bring into force a retroactive amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u6	So I hear the Minister say it right: there is indeed, not by some co-owners, because they do not have to pay taxes, but by full owners they have called for that principle of equality. Those are housing corporations, I take it, a lot of housing corporations and not one or two. At that point, I think there were 200. They said: 'We call on that principle of equality. If they don't have to pay, we don't have to pay." That's what they did in 2019. Does that mean that there will be a high budgetary risk in 2019? We haven't read about that yet. How big is that? Does this mean that the same risk will be incurred over this year, unless this Chamber says retroactively to these corporations today'sorry, but we closed the gap just in time'? And what is there to say about the corporations that may have objected between July 1st and July 6th, because at this time you might have objected to it or still do so tonight? It's not about nothing. It's about 1.8 billion. The question is whether we might lose a substantial part of it last year, and whether we might lose that total amount this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u7	Last year's risk is around 1 billion. That's a risk. $1 billion last year. This year it is indeed higher. It could in principle be about this year's revenue: 1.8 billion. However, I would point out that all of this depends on the judge's ruling on it. However much I have faith in a good outcome for the State on this point, as a minister, as a responsible governr, I am still obliged to implement this repair law, to mitigate that risk, which there is and which I do not consider to be very great. That is why this is really a technical proposal. So Mr Kox is simply right when he says "the reason for speeding up and allowing this repair law to enter into force retroactively is to object to the owners in full ownership." But otherwise there would have been a repair. What was originally intended in the law and in the levy could no longer be implemented by the ruling of the Supreme Court. So that was about the co-property. So that is still at the heart of the matter. The only reason to speed it up now, and not until 1 January next year, is indeed that there has been an objection to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u8	That was once the advice of the Supreme Court to the legislator: fix that mistake, then you can also easily tax those co-owners. That's what the law was meant to do, as the minister said. But the reason for coming up with this emergency bill now has nothing to do with those co-owners. This is what we are hearing for the first time that we may have lost EUR 1 billion in the last year and that, if we do not do something very quickly, we may lose EUR 1.8 billion in this year. I agree with the Minister that "risk" does not mean it is happening, but it was not the minister who wrote in the documents that it would be easy. No, the Minister's argument was: do it quickly, otherwise it's a risk. The Council of State said: calm down, because then they all have to object and invoke the principle of equality, then the judge still has to agree with them all and then it has to be said that the landlord levy cannot continue as such. I believe that this Chamber was entitled to know that this is not a technical proposal, but a proposal designed to protect at least 1.8 billion this year and cannot prevent it, because the retroactive effect is not so much that we may have lost 1 billion over the past year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u9	I repeat what I said at the beginning. There's a law. It's been there since 2014. That's the Landlord Tax Act. It has once had the objective of being able to levy a landlord's tax on owners of certain quantities of buildings. At the time, the legislator intended to also be able to charge owners in co-ownership, but an error has been found in the law. It has to be repaired. Mr Kox states that 'and I agree that the reason for speeding up the implementation of that repair law is indeed a risk because of the objecting of the owners in full ownership.' I can't make it any harder, and I can't make it any prettier. It's really a technical repair for that reason. This has been announced openly since December, including in the letter to this Chamber. There's really nothing crazy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u10	Mr Kox, third question in this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u11	I didn't make it up. The Minister gave me this. It says: For the time being we did nothing with this statement by the Supreme Court, because for €77 and €113 you don't have to move the machinery. At the end of 2019 it was found: ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, behind that 77 and those 113 come zeroes when we have bad luck. That's when this law came into being. If you mean a law for one reason, I don't think it's consistent if you say it over and over again: we're going to introduce it for another reason. Because this has nothing to do with co-ownership anymore. This has everything to do with full ownership.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u12	Mr. Kox, I have to tell you, this sounds a little like a second term. You agree with me, I think. I don't hear another question. Minister, are you at the end of your first term or do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u13	Well, a brief reflection on what Mr. Kox just said. Repair legislation was intended anyway, but originally it was meant to take effect on 1 January 2021. Because of the reasons I outlined and also outlined by the Cabinet in a letter to the Chamber in December 2019, we accelerated and brought this forward. We want to go into that repair law with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u14	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u15	Mr. Chairman. As Members of Parliament know and as the Minister, I think, I would have asked for this debate to be postponed, because I thought it was more than a technical law. I think there is indeed a strong connection with the landlord levy. Which way is this going? Since a report had been made on behalf of no less than three ministries and housing corporations, I would have liked to include that report. I do not know what that report might say about this issue. Mr. Chairman. However, I note that the Chamber was not informed that we are running a risk of 1 billion over 2019 if this law does not go through. I am sure that the Minister will at least say: Parliament, if things go wrong, so if the judge decides according to the same lines as on 8 June 2018, please bear in mind that you could lose EUR 1.8 billion. I think that's substantial information. In fact, I do not think it is possible for us to think that we are dealing with the technical repair of a looming error. Because, of course, if it had been, it should have happened right away. It just didn't happen because the government didn't see the problem. The government didn't see the problem until someone probably said to the Tax Office: you've been sleeping, because soon all the corporations are going to say they don't want to pay either. In fact, the minister says that's what the corporations said. I couldn't have read from the pieces what that was like either. I've been checking with some corporations. They couldn't tell me exactly. I said: have you really invoked the principle of equality in those judgments of the Supreme Court? Because once you do, your chances of getting the bonus increase. And the corporations, we know, are all not looking at the landlord's tax, and if this were a legal reason to say "end of landlord's tax," they could seize that - although of course it's up to them to decide. I do not think it is possible for this Chamber to be told: technical law, vote for it. And finally, we are talking about a risk of 1 billion and 1.8 billion. Finally, Mr President. You can say: well, things happen, and the minister has to do something. I very much agree with her there: she has to do something. But does she have to do it the way it's done now? The Council of State is cutting off the inclusion of a burdensome effect with retroactive effect in the legislative proposal. The Council of State says: you have just done nothing for a year and a half, and now you come up with this in one go; that is not possible. Furthermore, the Minister also says: I want retroactive effect, otherwise taxpayers may abuse or misuse it. That is what the Council of State says: since the two judgments of the Supreme Court, it is in no way abuseable when you say 'I object on the basis of two judgments of the Supreme Court'. That too is what the Council of State is trying to do. So I think that at least that retroactive force should be removed from the law. It's a risk. We agree on that now. We weren't well informed about that, but we know it now. But the risk hasn't been realized yet. I think we've applied that weapon, that means of incriminating retroactive force here once in the last 17 years. Nor does the Minister know how to set precedents if she is asked to do so. I do not think this Chamber can let that go on its side, especially in view of the development of the route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u16	Mr. Kox, that was the end of your second term, I think? I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u17	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thought I would at least give Mr Kox a chance to put a comma in the speech. And I'm getting the hang of it, too. I am, of course, ill informed myself, because I have only been here for a year and this obviously has been going on a little longer. That is not meant to be a faint remark, but it is perhaps a balance that we should make between 'it could have been different and better'. Well, that's obvious, because the content of the law was apparently inadequate, says the Supreme Court. And then it is perhaps a bit Murphy's law that it also went wrong in substance. I would like to stress that, of course, we are also totally opposed to this landlord tax, especially at the moment. We had to introduce them sometime as a crisis measure. We have always said: crisis is over, tax is gone. But I do not want to mix this with a bit of state-law purity because of what we meant: that charge applies to all owners, housing corporations, also shared ownership. Yeah, that last one went wrong, and that's why the whole thing would be reversed now - and gone. Would you like to respond to that, because that is a substantive decision, regardless of the legal thing that has gone wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u18	This Chamber is concerned with everything and may also deal with everything, as we have all been able to see recently. But it is also mainly concerned with reasonable and consistent legislation. And one of that consistent legislation is that you do apply retroactive force when it's beneficial, but never apply burdensome retroactive force. Because that's unfair, then you're gonna take away a right they had because it suits you better. That's not legal, that's power politics. So I think the Minister should at least respond to that: why do we do that? And not because I say so, but because the Council of State says: these are not arguments for applying this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Mr Crone one last short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u20	No. Retroactive force is never applied to new legislation. But this is a repair that anyone could have known about. Of course, it was meant that co-owners would also pay. And by chance that the charge is being made by the tzb recipients, the others were able to flee. We're not gonna support the tax loopholes in the law with the SP first, shall we say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u21	As Mr Crone says, the dossier has been going on for a long time. The legislation was never intended to have retroactive effect; it was never intended to have retroactive effect. It was just to say: from now on, co-owners will have to pay through the pro-rata scheme, as stated in the bill. The retroactive effect has nothing to do with the intention of the law. The retroactive force is to close another door, which the housing corporations have opened. When we observe this law, we say to housing corporations: "You've had bad luck. You've made an objection. You objected on good grounds. You have a serious chance of winning it, but you're going to lose it, because the First Chamber is doing something that it never does, namely with retroactive force closing this door."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u22	Thank you, Mr. Kox, I'm going to interrupt you now. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. That's the case. Mr. Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u23	I wonder whether we should vote on this bill today. We said in the College of Seniors: let's do that today. But I didn't understand that the impact is so great that there's 1 billion, 1.9 billion, going on. I didn't understand that playing too. That is why I am proposing that we do not vote now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u24	That's an order proposal. I shall put that to the vote at the end of the debate, Mr Gerbrandy. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u25	Mr President, very briefly. The report requested by Mr Kox on the tasks and resources of housing corporations, the research I referred to in an earlier debate, has now been sent to the Chambers. I believe last Friday. Let me now turn to the matter before us. In the letter of December 2019, it is really clear what it is about, that there is an objection from housing corporations that have full ownership. It also contains the announcement of emergency legislation. That too has really been communicated with the Chambers in full openness. Let me now turn to the issue of retroactive effect. By the way, I fully agree with what was said in the debate on the interruption: it is not, of course, about the nature of the law. You can always expect technical repair legislation from the cabinet, regardless of the tax loopholes found in the law. Of course, I am not concerned that this is about the landlord tax and whether or not you are an enthusiastic supporter or opponent of it. It's just the law and it applies until we decide that it doesn't apply. But on the issue of retroactivity, perhaps in order to remove a possible misunderstanding: the retroactive effect will apply for this year. This means that objections lodged for last year simply need to be properly assessed. We shall, of course, wait and see. The motive for the retroactive effect for this year, i.e. from 1 January 2020 onwards, is indeed that this year the same objections would be raised by the taxpayer-full owners. You're gonna keep that from happening by doing this. In this way, Mr Kox is right about budgetary losses. But I have also really wanted to share this with everyone in all openness. It is also true that the Council of State is critical of this. This can also be read back, and is understandable. But it is the argument that the cabinet is arguing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u26	It is always good to speak in nuances, but the Council of State is not "critical"; the Council of State says: delete it. That retroactive force in the way it is incriminating, without you having been able to prove it quickly, is not possible. You didn't do anything for a year and a half, even though the Supreme Court called you in. Nor can you rely on improper use or abuse, because people simply use a court ruling. Can the Minister still respond to that? It's quite a heavy substance. The Minister also said in the documents that she could not really find a precedent. This hasn't been done before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u27	When I say that the Council of State is critical, I say nothing but what Mr Kox says. It's not very common either. I would argue that the cabinet is relying on the risk of budgetary losses in this case to re-introduce that retroactive effect for this year, not for next year. Finally, may I also point out that the budgetary loss, or the risk thereof, and also the order of magnitude, are simply contained in the documents? So that's not something that suddenly comes up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u28	Mr Van der Linden, I would point out that you can only interrupt the Minister with a brief question at the moment in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u29	Yeah, I have a quick question. If we did not adopt or enforce this law today until after the recess, what would it actually cost the Treasury? Can the Minister report that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u30	It's a risk I'm trying to mitigate, not a certainty. But it means that the declarations will run from 1 July and the housing corporations will object to them. If you maximize it, the potential risk of loss would be the total revenue for this year for the landlord's tax of 1.8 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u31	Are you at the end of your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u33	Thank you, Minister. Then I will close the debate and come to the finalisation of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-07-eerstekamer-14.u34	I understand that there is a need for a vote on the bill. That was requested in advance. I propose that we vote on Mr Gerbrandy's order proposal later this evening. Also because not all the groups are present now, I think it would be more appropriate to vote on the legislative proposal not now but at a later date. So tonight, at the end of the debate, if we vote on various legislative proposals, I would put your order proposal to the vote first and then whether or not this bill. If you agree, that's how we're gonna do it.
