ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u1	At present, the Implementation Act finally concerns the registration of stakeholders of companies and other legal entities (35179). I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance to the First Chamber. I would draw Members' attention to the fact that Mr Van der Voort will make his maiden speech today. After this maiden speech, I will address Mr Van der Voort and briefly suspend the sitting for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by wishing my colleague Van der Voort every success in his maiden speech. The Panama Papers and the Paradise Papers exposed the global structures and networks used by multinationals and wealthy individuals for tax evasion and avoidance. Misuse of the financial system, but also conscious choices by governments to compete with their tax systems were all brought to light by investigative journalism. The public indignation was very great. The resulting public pressure stirred up politics and called for action. Our financial sector is being massively abused for money laundering, terrorist financing, tax avoidance and evasion, and other criminal activities. In the fight against this multifaceted monster, the authorities and society seem to be getting to the brink of it. It is not only necessary to work together with other European countries in this fight, but it is also the most effective way of fighting it. The proposed legislative proposal aims to implement amendments to the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. Registration of final stakeholders in a legal entity and the associated transparency should not only facilitate the work of FIOD, investigation services and competent authorities, but also have a preventive effect. The combination of research by Wwft institutions into their customers and this public central registration should prevent people from setting up legal entities, whether or not with stromans, for laundering criminal money or financing terrorism. GroenLinks and the PvdA wholeheartedly support all efforts to make this funding sector more transparent and sustainable. Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise three issues in my contribution on this bill, which I am also doing on behalf of the PvdA Group. One: the degree of transparency. Two: the position of church societies. And three: the European interconnection of national registers. Mr. Chairman. The aim is to publicise which natural persons in a legal entity, a company, association or foundation have real control, who are ultimately the stakeholders or, as the government writes, "who are really in control." In this way, abuse of the financial system can not only be combated, but also prevented. I quote: "As a result, suspicious constructions come to light and opportunities to do business anonymously are limited. This effect is reinforced in the case of public access by the fact that the parties having access to the register, each from a different perspective, are aware of UBO information," the government said in the reply. In short, to achieve the directive's objective effectively, maximum transparency is crucial and necessary. First, the government and later the House of Representatives have used all available options for Member States to protect the privacy of UBOs in this implementing law. This is clearly at the expense of openness and transparency. The question now is whether the proposed legislative proposal can still achieve the objective of transparency. Indeed, the thresholds for obtaining in principle public information have been considerably increased after the examination in the Lower House. The advisers of the national registers of UBOs must first identify themselves and then register themselves. Their identification data are kept and can be used if necessary by the FIU in the Netherlands and the competent authorities. Advisors must also pay a fee to gain insight into the national register. In addition, only the name of the legal entity and not the names of natural persons can be searched. UBOs can also request information from the Chamber of Commerce on how often their information has been provided. In addition, the law provides for the possibility of shielding data from UBOs in exceptional situations. The right to privacy is a fundamental right. The GroenLinks and PvdA groups attach great importance to the protection of this fundamental right. However, as the Council of State points out in its opinion, European legislation in the Directive has already made a balance of interests in relation to privacy. No fundamental right is absolute and a legislative proposal such as this is about the balance between ensuring the privacy of UBOs and effectively preventing and combating money laundering and terrorist financing, involving the right to life and fundamental social rights. With the accumulation of all the conditions for the public consultation of the national register, this balance of interests appears to be off-balance sheet. The question arises as to how effective this law is. With so many thresholds, there can hardly be a public register. In addition, we are curious about the protection of the privacy of the counsellors, given that they need to identify and register. On what basis, in what situations and under what conditions are their data shared with competent authorities? Is only the fact that someone has consulted the register sufficient reason to pass his or her data on to the institutions, to other competent investigative authorities? Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister promise that the privacy of counsellors will be protected and can he explain how this will happen? Can the Minister also explain why it is not allowed to search the register for persons' names? So you can check with a certain bv or foundation who the UBOs are, but you cannot investigate in how many and with which legal entities a particular person has the status of a UBO. The latter is precisely the best way to expose suspicious constructions. Is the Minister prepared to open the consultation of individuals at least to civil society organisations such as Transparency International or NGOs engaged in the fight against corruption, money laundering, tax avoidance and so on? - evasion and for journalists? I'd like a response from the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to say that in the implementation of this law civil society organisations and journalists are exempted from paying fees for understanding the national register? I am considering tabling a motion on these points in the second term. Mr. Chairman. In short, it must be avoided that this law causes a great deal of red tape, but has little impact. How does the government intend to evaluate the effectiveness of the law? Mr. Chairman. The second point is the position of church societies. There was a looming error in the original bill. Church societies were categorically exempted from the registration of their UBOs. That looming error was corrected by the adoption of the Van der Linde amendment in the House of Representatives. Freedom of religion is indeed a fundamental right. However, under this law, we do not see any need for an exception for church societies. We also believe that there is no need to protect UBOs from church societies from public information, as some groups propose in their written submissions. Indeed, Member States which choose to set up a shielding regime can only do so in individual cases, in exceptional circumstances. The Directive refers to minority, disability or where disclosure entails a disproportionate risk of, for example, harassment, violence or kidnapping. We can very well imagine that UBOs at an organisation for the rights of homosexuals, sex workers or undocumented people could just as well be the target of harassment and violence because of who they are and what they believe in. That is why we believe they should be protected on an individual basis. We therefore do not see why they would not get this protection categorically and church societies would. Can the Minister respond to this and confirm that he does not intend to apply the shielding regime generically to the UBOs of church societies? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, European interconnection of national registers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u4	I have a question for Mrs Karimi, particularly about the position of the churches. A few parties have asked for further information from the Council of State. On the contrary, the Council of State states that the directors of church societies run disproportionate risks or are otherwise exposed to undesirable behaviour, such as intimidation or harassment or blackmail, if they are registered as UBO. What is Mrs Karimi's reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u5	As you know, when these questions were put to the Council of State, we made a note of them. That was precisely because that application was very one-sided towards church societies. I would like to know what the answer would have been if that question had been asked more broadly and, for example, had been about UBOs and rights for homosexuals. So I don't think that's possible, I'm not ruling out that specifically applies to church societies. That could also be other organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u6	The other examples mentioned by Mrs Karimi are not at all covered in this legislative proposal. This bill was properly drafted by the government with a few exceptions. The church societies were one of them. I know that GroenLinks asked for a note at that time. The Council of State, our highest consultative body, says: beware, because it is precisely these churches and their leaders who will get into trouble. Then that's exactly what we have to watch over in this house, isn't it? Then we should not say that there are perhaps other examples of people getting into trouble, because they are not being discussed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u7	I have two points. First of all, of course, there was already a looming error, which is why I also spoke of a looming error at the beginning of the legislative proposal. That weave error was in it. That has been corrected in the House of Representatives. That's the first thing. So, in the first consideration, the question of what this means, for example, for all kinds of other interest groups was not properly considered. The second point is that the Council of State, I very much appreciate its opinion, indicates that this consideration of protection and privacy has already been included in the directive. It is therefore not on the path of the Member States to make that assessment again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u8	Your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u9	I have one more point, further to my previous questions. I know Mrs Karimi's party as a party with a great deal of respect for refugees, for people in need and so on. There are about a million people here in our country who are members of refugee and migrant churches. Those people have come to our country for faith very often. Drivers of these must register here. I think that these people are going to feel very unsafe and become part of bullying, blackmail and so on, as the Council of State points out. How does Mrs. Karimi react to that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u10	I must say that the honourable Member of the SGP is now going very far in the defence of his point. Refugees naturally come here for various reasons, for example because of political activities, sexual orientation and political opinions. So it's not just about religion, but I don't rule out people having to flee for religious reasons, because they're being persecuted for their religious beliefs. Nevertheless, they are not all UBOs of church societies. This concerns a very limited number of directors, ultimately stakeholders, organisations and legal entities. If there are individual reasons why people should be protected, I think they can just be included in the shielding mechanism that the government intends to set up, but I don't think that should be categorical, just because you're the leader of a church society. But you don't have to be excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u11	You will continue your speech, Mrs Karimi. By the way, I see you still have some papers, but you have 33 seconds left. You saw that, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u12	Yes, I've seen that, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a brief comment on the European interconnection of national registers: what is the situation, where are we with the implementation of these registers? Can the Minister reflect on the risks and consequences of the choice of the Netherlands to use all national options, with which it has given the most restrictive implementation of this Directive for the effectiveness of the European approach? Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. It is very important that today, in this debate, the intention of the legislator is made crystal clear. Organisations will, in all honesty, have to keep their own records on the final stakeholders of their organisation. It is about registering individuals who are actually in control. There may be several grounds to consider someone like UBO. This means that a person can also be classified as UBO in an interest of less than 25%. It's about people who actually have authority in an organization. This means that there must be clarity, clear and targeted information about this law. It must be clear that, despite all the cases, the responsibility for administration and registration of actual stakeholders in a legal entity lies with the organisation itself. We would like to await the Minister's response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. Mr Van der Voort has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group. Mr Van der Voort will make his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u14	Mr. Chairman. For the first time today, I am pleased to address your Chamber and the Minister on behalf of the members of the D66 Group. We are talking about financial and fiscal legislation today, and that is not a first nature for a medical practitioner. But in my training as a doctor's assistant and certainly in my subsequent position as a medical specialist in a general hospital, the importance of having a certain basic knowledge of this soon became clear. That has deepened to organizational level at the university where I teach. Now I can speak on behalf of the D66 Group on the current Implementation Act registration, finally called the "UBO regime" in the corridors. We, the D66 Group, are committed to expressing our views on this issue and to putting a number of supplementary questions to the Minister. In doing so, we assess this new law on legality, effectiveness and feasibility and, of course, relate it to well-known D66 visions and positions. The draft law before us is an elaboration of the amendment to the fourth EU anti-money laundering directive. The bill is part of a series of measures and legislative proposals against money laundering and terrorist financing. The fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism, I believe, cannot be opposed, except for the beneficiaries of these malicious activities. It is therefore necessary to register the ultimate beneficial owners, UBOs, companies and other legal entities involved in this activity, in accordance with the said Directive, so that both preventive action and better detection can be carried out. The problems to be addressed in part by this law are large and transcend national borders. Fraud and drugs are the main sources of money laundering. The size of money laundering is difficult to determine precisely, but it is about a lot of money. It is estimated that in the Netherlands money laundering needs are 12 billion to 20 billion euros per year. Money that could be used, for example, for public services, especially in the current crisis. The D66 Group therefore considers it urgent that effective action be taken by the government. The wave of terrorist attacks over Europe over the last five years has produced a number of measures from the EU as described in the amended Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. It is therefore an excellent subject for which an international approach, an EU-wide approach, is on its plate. Without European cooperation, especially at EU level, tackling the financing of terrorism and combating money laundering is more difficult and less effective. 'Think and trade internationally', one of the D66 Guides, means, in my view, focusing on this legislative proposal: combat the financing of terrorism and money laundering internationally. The Dutch Association of Banks has recently published a blueprint with fifteen points for a European approach to money laundering. The UBO registration that we are discussing today is also mentioned in it, among other things cross-border harmonisation of supervision of banks and the increased European exchange of data within the limits of privacy. However, the banks argue that access to all relevant data for the performance of their tasks is not provided for in the present legislative proposal. Can the Minister explain why this is not settled, or indicate that it is still going to be settled and how it could be done? We realize that UBO registration is a small part of a more comprehensive approach. Of course, we are not here with the current legislative proposals. Moreover, criminals are innovative and therefore terrorist financing and money laundering are rapidly developing in implementation. Our question to the Minister is therefore: what additional initiatives on international legislation or EU directives are underway or will be initiated in the coming year, including by this executive? The fourth anti-money laundering directive concerns only the European Netherlands. Caribbean Netherlands, namely Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, is not involved in this bill. I would ask the Minister to clarify whether this is a legislative gap, through which financing of terrorism or money laundering will continue to be possible. Aren't UBOs in the Caribbean Netherlands going to be registered? In addition to the adaptation of the BES Civil Code, are additional measures needed to organise this registration also in the Caribbean Netherlands? The Netherlands does not have such a good reputation internationally when it comes to money laundering through the financial sector, as well as tax evasion. The publication of the Panama Papers in 2016, as indicated earlier, did not leave the Netherlands unnamed either. The D66 Group believes it is important for the Netherlands to improve its reputation in this area, but this image and the underlying causes are of course not easy to get away with in the short term. But any initiative that undermines this image is welcome to my group. We therefore ask the Minister what other measures he and his Secretary of State would like to take or what further proposals are to be made to improve our image in this area. This law is only a small part of the fight against terrorist financing and money laundering. It becomes clear who is interested in governing organizations, the ultimate Beneficial owner. This will enable the fight to be more targeted, where appropriate, and may lead to a preventive effect. The question we have is how much the Minister considers the effect of this law on the total of what is to be achieved in the prevention of terrorist financing and money laundering, i.e. to what extent does it contribute to the final objective and is the administrative burden involved proportionate? The purpose of the registration of UBOs to provide transparency has as its inherent disadvantage that individuals are public in name. If the organization has a specific purpose, such as a religious purpose or a political purpose, the personal affinity with that purpose is transparent. Is that a problem? Not in the legal sense, but some will find that a problem in a personal sense. The data recorded in the UBO are limited in insight and there is a possibility to request and obtain data foreclosure. The members of the D66 Group consider privacy very important and are therefore critical of this bill. All in all, we are nevertheless convinced that, on the basis of privacy, there is no obstacle to voting in favour of this bill. With regard to execution: this is invested in the Chamber of Commerce, as is also invested in the Commercial Register. We ask the Minister if he can give a look at the state of affairs at this Chamber of Commerce. In the meantime, is it sufficiently equipped to carry out this registration carefully and reliably and how does the Chamber of Commerce ensure the accuracy of the data? This is also a concern that lives with the banks. What possibilities does the Chamber of Commerce have in case of errors in order to force recovery? Finally, a question on the costs involved in the consultation of the register. The register must also have a preventive effect. We ask whether a free consultation cannot be expected to have a more preventive effect than the proposed paid consultation. I come to the end of my speech and await the Minister's answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u15	Mr. Van der Voort. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied medicine at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, after which you obtained your PhD at that other Amsterdam university on the subject of Stress Ulceration in the Critically Ill Patient. During the same period you obtained your European Diploma in Intensive Care and were trained as an internist-intensivist at the Academic Medical Centre Amsterdam. From 2004 to 2006 you followed the master's degree in Epidemiology at the VU. Since 1998 you have been working as an intensivist. First at the Medical Center Leeuwarden, later at the Our Lady Gasthuis in Amsterdam and since October 2019 as head of the Intensive Care Adult department of the University Medical Centre Groningen. Since 2010, you have been a member of the Executive Master Health Administration programme at Tilburg University. On 1 January 2020 you also became professor of Intensive Care Medicine at the University of Groningen. For those of us who do not know exactly what an intensivist is doing: he or she specializes in caring for seriously ill patients. Over the last few months, you have met the intensive workers as the experts in intensive care, intensive care, for severely ill corona patients. One of those faces in the national media was you, Mr. Van der Voort. In an interview at the Leeuwarder Courant in mid-March, you told us how you were awake at the beginning of February when the virus was not yet in our country. It seemed like a truck was coming at you with thundering noises, so you described your nightly concerns. Then you went to work so that the hospital and the intensive care department were prepared for the influx of patients. On 4 February last, you were sworn in as a member of the First Chamber on behalf of D66, exactly during the period of sleepless nights. More than a month later, the Chamber closed down the building as one of its own temporary corona measures and partially continued its meetings digitally. In the same interview, you indicated that you were looking forward to a complete resumption of the Chamber work. I quote: "As a politician, you look at things from a higher level of abstraction. I think it's important that I don't just have the c of corona on my desk." Today you can put the u of UBO next to the c of corona. Once again, welcome, and we look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Members can congratulate you. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations, and I would like to congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u16	I give the floor to Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Voort on his beautiful maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Money laundering and terrorist financing are serious problems that require serious policies. In the Netherlands, too, many billions are laundered every year. Between 13 and 16 billion, so the estimates learn. It leads to a frightening infiltration of the upper world, it undermines society and the economy, and the freed-up means are used for purposes that threaten our rule of law. These disruptive criminal practices do not interfere with national borders. We need strong European anti-money laundering policy to turn the ship around. My group is pleased that the other two implementation proposals received broad support in our Parliament. We must prevent criminals from concealing their money laundering and terrorist financing behind shady legal arrangements and camouflaging their identity. The transparency of ownership relationships between companies, foundations, associations and so on can make a significant contribution to this. And that is exactly the thrust of this bill. At the heart of the proposal is the obligation for companies and other legal entities to include their ultimate stakeholders in a new register, the UBO register. It identifies the natural persons who are the ultimate owner or control of these organisations. This concerns personal data such as the name, year of birth, country of residence, nationality and economic interest of the beneficial owner. The consultation of this new register at the Chamber of Commerce is relatively easy, but further data is only accessible to the competent authorities and the FIU. They shall be subject to the obligation of professional secrecy. The premise behind the European directive is that the UBO register will operate preventively. That immediately raises the question of whether there will be a check on the accuracy of those UBO registry data. I would ask the Minister if he is prepared to do so. After all, it should not be too complicated for sharked criminals to come up with a cloaking structure in which they remain hidden as the final stakeholders. How do we prevent the UBO register from becoming a paper tiger? Is the intended preventive effect not butter soft? My group notes that, in addition to the criminal justice route, the maximum administrative penalty is just over €20,000. Is this sanction strong enough to deter criminals who themselves have amounts with considerably more zeros? Its prevention and sanctions are sufficiently robust to make a difference, the Christian Union Group asks. Is the shocking impact unmistakable? And let's say we're tracking down criminals through the UBO Registry, what are the follow-up steps? This bill has direct implications for the privacy and safety of church society administrators, and that is where my contribution is now focusing. The underlying reasoning behind the new registration obligation for church societies is apparently that churches can also be abused for money laundering and terrorist financing. We can't be too careful, that's what the adage says. And that is an excellent starting point in general. However, it raises the question of how proportional this implementation law is to this section. That is a crucial question that we ask with every legislative proposal in this Chamber. Does the Minister have any evidence that church societies have been abused for malicious purposes in recent years? The Christian Union Group has difficulty getting used to the idea that our churches have played a role in money laundering and terrorist financing. Or are we naive in this respect? Are we too suspicious? I hope that the thunderstorm we are hearing is not symbolic, Mr President, it could be. In any case, my group needs a firmer argument and support for this issue. Is the elephant in the room not that it is mainly about mosques and their directors in our country who seek the edges of the financial system for unhonorable practices? But our concerns here are quite frankly the other way around: incoming money from foreign powers or organizations that encourage thought that is at odds with our legal order. If this statement is correct, should we not use other and stronger interventions? I like to hear that. Church societies are very different in organisational structure. Ranging from a centralized and hierarchical church as the Roman Catholic church to the colourful palette of decentralized Protestant churches. Is it clear in all cases which individuals within these different structures and layers are actually UBO-related? We get sounds from ecclesiastical practice that this is not the case. Can the Minister shed some light on this? Mr. Chairman. The UBO register is a European obligation. This raises the obvious question of how other European countries deal with the protection of the privacy and security of church leaders in their UBO policies. Can the Minister share his conclusions with us? Is it true that Germany, Sweden and Italy choose their own line? If so, what lessons does the Minister draw from this? Mr. Chairman. I am now zooming in on the information provided by the Council of State on the consequences of this bill for the mandatory inclusion in the UBO register of personal data of church administrators. The Christian Union Group welcomes the detailed and clear information provided by the Council of State. The background to this Chamber's request for information was the fundamental question of whether the inclusion of this data is contrary to privacy and security requirements and whether the legislative proposal is GDPR-resistant in this respect. After all, making personal data available to church leaders makes it easy to derive their religious or philosophical beliefs from this. As is well known, it came along for a while, by amendment in the House of Representatives, the exception to the obligation to register churches, as contained in the original bill, was deleted against the Minister's will. Church societies are therefore obliged to include their directors in the UBO register. This new circumstance is not stress-free. It may involve undesirable and disproportionate risks, such as intimidation, violence and blackmail. Think of our Jewish community and the horrible, almost structural anti-Semitic threats it faces, including in the Netherlands, in 2020. How does the Minister weigh the risks to this particular group? The question of ecclesiastical sensitivities also arises in the trade register and the anbi regime, but in the case of the UBO register, according to the Council of State, there are binding rules of Union law. In ordinary people's language: Brussels requires this. The national margin of manoeuvre, as we understand it, is virtually nil. In fact, the Council of State stresses that the European legislator has weighed the sensitivity of the disclosure of personal data against the importance of an effective fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. However, the Council of State points out that Article 30 (9) of the Directive states that Member States may, in exceptional cases, protect UBO data. There must then be disproportionate risks. The Christian Union Group would like to ask the Minister to think creatively in this debate on the possibilities offered by this article to offer church societies and their directors more comfort and to remove their specific concerns about privacy and security. This applies to our churches in general, but to the Jewish community in particular. We do not want a public UBO register to pose dangers for church society administrators. Does the Minister recognise these concerns and, if so, how can he respond to the churches in this regard? What guarantees does he have on the retina? What kind of shielding is he thinking of? All this, of course, without violating the objective of the law, let me underline that. Is the Minister prepared, in consultation with the Interkerelijke Contact in Public Affairs, the CIO, where more than 30 churches are affiliated, to look for an operational introduction of the UBO register that reduces these concerns? This certainly applies to possible privacy violations and security threats. Is the Minister prepared to make concrete agreements on UBO policy in the event of gross and exceptional threats to church leaders, including as regards their security? The Minister will find a willing ear here. The Christian Union Group appreciates a commitment on this point. My group also calls on the Minister, in the context of the planned evaluation, to monitor closely the impact of the bill on church administrators, in particular as regards their privacy and security. Could my group perhaps also hear confirmation here? Our thanks for that. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with an appeal from the Christian Union Group to the Minister to open wide the channels of communication with our churches, to discuss the practical implementation of this law, to help them to do so and to use the knowledge they have in their homes, to find the right balance between privacy, security and the fight against money laundering. I look forward to the Minister's answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, we would also like to begin by congratulating Mr Van der Voort on his maiden speech. I look forward to exchanges of views with him, in the future, but also today, perhaps. For a moment, I thought you'd almost have to name Peter to talk about this proposal. I'm the third, and I'm gonna be number four. For some people it has to be special to have a different name. Mr. Chairman. Today, we are discussing a law that aims to prevent money laundering, but which is responsible for the blackmailing. Because what is the case? As part of the fight against money laundering and as part of the counter-terrorism approach, the government wants stakeholders of companies and other legal entities to register. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this. Get rid of the black money. Stop the money laundering. Tackle terrorists in every possible way, preferably by picking them up and bringing them to justice, but also by taking them financially. In short, a law that focuses on this can, in principle, count on the warm support of my group. Article 15a (1) of the original bill made an exception for church societies, associations of owners and some other legal entities governed by private law. However, MP Van der Linde has tabled an amendment that deletes the word "church societies" from that list. My group, together with CDA and Christian Union, has asked the Council of State for additional information, because it has had broad support in the Chamber. In my contribution, I focus mainly on this part and the resulting problematic consequences. First of all, the question of who should register. Of course, I like to talk about churches. We have a lot in our country, in all kinds and sizes. They're organized in all kinds of ways. A well-known example is the Roman Catholic church, which has a clearly hierarchical structure. That's the so-called canonical church system. The church association to which I personally belong is organized according to the so-called presbyterial church system, in which the church is governed as a legal entity by the church council, legally represented by the preses and the scriba. In any case, in the case of the canonical system, this law would still be easy to implement, by following the hierarchical lines. But the presbyterial system remains unclear. One thing is clear: that will be a huge administrative burden for many hundreds of churches. Now to the crucial question: why has this exception been taken out? In the Acts of the House of Representatives, I read that Mr Van der Linde put it this way: "A second amendment under my own name is about mosques. The Minister states in the documents that he sees the risk of terrorist financing but does not take action. I ask him to take that step." That is his amendment to stop excluding church societies. In other words, all church societies must believe in tackling terrorist financing of mosques. What is the Minister's view on the proportionality of this amendment? And what is the point of this amendment in terms of money flows that are not funded at all by legal entities registered in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. It is poignant that precisely the churches where God's good commandments are held on Sunday are placed here in a frame of money laundering and terrorism. Two out of ten are precisely the counterparts of money laundering and terrorism. I remember the sixth commandment, thou shalt not kill, neither shalt thou steal the eighth commandment. In the reply, the Minister writes that the exception envisaged by the government concerned a balance of interest between the protection of special personal data and transparency in order to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering and the financing of terrorism. At the same time, the government indicated that it would be reconsidered if this were justified. This indicates that the exception for the government was not an absolute prohibition of registration, according to the Minister in the reply. But what exactly is the reconsideration that the government has made? The mere fact that there is an amendment? That would be sad, because precisely in the text of the reply I have just quoted, the government states that the exception was initially made for the protection of a particular personal data, namely the religious belief of individuals. That is precisely the big problem that is about to arise. In a very simple way, it will be possible to trace who belongs to which church society or to which community of faith. The Council of State states that drivers may run disproportionate risks or otherwise be exposed to undesirable behaviour, such as intimidation, harassment or blackmail. What is the Minister's response to the Council of State's observation? Of course, my group knows that it is possible to offer protection through police protection. But if it's okay, the Church leaders aren't on the relevant police lists. Of course, my group knows that one can report to the Public Prosecutor's Office and that the prosecution will then assess on a case-by-case basis whether the possibility of protection also applies to this person. But it's not seriously thought that all church councils and leaders of religious communities are going to report to the Public Prosecutor's Office? This measure expresses people's beliefs, which may lead to exclusion, perhaps even discrimination. I'm sure a lot of people are gonna feel unsafe. I am thinking of the Jewish community. Only a few months ago we received a broad delegation from the Jewish community in the First Chamber at the light of the chanukia. These people's stories about threats and anti-Semitism are shocking. A few years ago I was visiting a Jewish school in Amsterdam. That's just a stronghold with cameras, fences, barbed wire, security inside and marechaussee outside. These are precisely the people who need to be protected from terrorism, but their name will soon be registered with address. My group does not dare to accept this responsibility. I am also thinking of refugee or migrant churches. Many of these refugees have fled their country because of their beliefs. What does it mean for this group if they are confronted with a registration that puts their safety in this country at risk? In addition, it is well known that there is a law for advising the Council of State, the Transparency Act for civil society organisations. Does the Minister agree with my group that this law is the appropriate means of correcting the problem of money flows for terrorism? Mr. Chairman. All things considered, I call on the Minister to take back this law and to correct this looming error by means of a novelle. It's just about adding one word to the word "church societies" in the Trade Register Act 2007, in the new Article 15a, first paragraph. One word, that should work before the summer recess. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Essers, on behalf of the CDA Group, after cleaning the speaker's seat. He's the fourth Peter today. That is appropriate in this Chamber, because Peter comes from the Greek Petra, which means "stability," "reliability" and "rock."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u21	Mr. Chairman. I too would, of course, like to begin by congratulating Mr Van der Voort on his beautiful maiden speech. Welcome to the company of senators with the first name Peter! That's an honor! Mr. Chairman. When it comes to privacy, this Chamber can boast of a great reputation. I remember vividly the debate in this Chamber on 15 March 2011 on the national electronic patient file. On 5 April 2011, the Eerste Kamer unanimously rejected the present bill that had been approved by the Dutch Parliament. But also in many other areas, the Chamber has made itself heard in the protection of citizens' privacy. Of course, that is right, because privacy is a great asset. It's a fundamental right, a condition to be free in who you are and what you do. Research carried out by the Dutch Data Protection Authority shows that as many as 94% of people are concerned about the protection of their personal data, especially about misuse of their ID, tracking their online search and Wi-Fi tracking. These are par excellence situations where people have lost control of their personal data. However, as with all fundamental rights, this must also be balanced against other rights. There is no absolute right to privacy. This consideration is also central to the current legislative proposal on the UBO register. In order to avoid misuse of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing, transparency is required as to who the ultimate stakeholders of companies and other legal entities are. To this end, this legislative proposal, which implements the fourth anti-money laundering directive, which was amended in 2018, establishes a public register containing data from natural persons who are ultimately stakeholders. That is, in general, to be understood as natural persons who directly or indirectly hold an interest of more than 25% in an entity or who otherwise exercise direct control through shares or voting rights. In some cases, drivers may also be considered UBO. What should now be included in this public register? The Directive requires that in any case the name, the month of birth and the year of birth, the nationality, the Member State of residence and the nature and extent of the interest held should be indicated in certain ranges: more than 25% to 50%, 50% to 75% and 75% to 100% of the population. Anyone who wants to know about this information can get to know it. That is, of course, quite a violation of the privacy of the natural persons who qualify as UBO. The government is rightly aware of this. It has made use of a number of options provided by the Directive to ensure privacy as much as possible. For example, in addition to the mandatory data mentioned above in a public register, the Netherlands registers additional data only in a protected register. These additional data are: the civil service number or a foreign equivalent thereof, the address, the birthday, the country of birth, the documents proving the nature and extent of the interest held and documents establishing the identity of the UBO. This additional information shall be accessible only to the competent authorities and the Financial Information Unit (FIU). The Directive does not impose any requirements on how to search the register. Member States therefore have the room to set this up themselves. The Netherlands has chosen that only the competent authorities and the FIU-Netherlands can search for personal data. Other counsellors can obtain the UBO data only on the basis of the legal entity. In addition, counsellors need to identify themselves and UBOs have the ability to see how often their data has been consulted by third parties. Access is granted to third parties only if they register in advance and if they pay for it. Mr. Chairman. I do not want and will not hide the fact that my group would have liked to see the regulation of the shielded register now proposed for certain additional data become the general rule. This also applies to the CDA-group of the House of Representatives. We consider the right to privacy of citizens to be so important that this should not be set aside by the possibility of giving third parties access to personal data of these citizens. In our view, the fully legitimate objective of this proposal to combat money laundering and terrorist financing is sufficiently guaranteed if only the competent authorities had knowledge of the UBO data. Of course, we also see the importance of journalists and researchers, for example, to take note of this, but in our opinion this interest does not outweigh the breach of the fundamental right of privacy of citizens in this case. This will affect SMEs and family businesses in particular. We've received a lot of letters from that sector. We find it questionable that a UBO should not know the identity of a counsellor, because this would be contrary to the General Data Protection Regulation, while the same GDPR is explicitly put aside when it comes to protecting the identity of the UBO. We almost naïvely believe that the name, month of birth, year of birth, nationality and country of residence are made public, but not the address, date of birth and country of birth. As if a little handy investigator couldn't figure that out on the basis of public data. Nor are we convinced that citizens are adequately protected from malicious third parties. Citizens' data are worth a lot of money, not to mention third parties who have criminal interests to know who are wealthy citizens and where they live. How does the Minister view this? We understand that much of this can be traced back to the choice of the EU legislator. What we particularly want to assess today is the extent to which the government uses the remaining discretionary power to protect the privacy of citizens who qualify as UBO as best possible. Which brings us to the point of the church societies. We are grateful to the Council of State for the comprehensive answer to this Chamber's request for information on this issue. This gratitude also applies to the Minister and his officials for the comprehensive and careful response to our questions in various deadlines. What's the case? In the original bill the government had introduced an exception to the registration for church societies. As a reason it was given that I quote "central registration of natural persons such as UBO of a church society in a public register means an indirect registration by the government of the religion of those UBOs." Reference was made to the non-inclusion of such natural persons in the trade register. In the explanatory memorandum in this regard, the government stated explicitly: "It is important that religion or belief is a special personal character within the meaning of the GDPR, so that great restraint must be exercised in its processing." During the examination in the Lower House, however, as a result of the adoption of the Van der Linde amendment, the exception for church societies was removed from the bill, stating that these societies could also be abused by criminals. However, the author of this amendment stressed the need to maintain the freedom of religion in full. Mr. Chairman. We regret this state of affairs. It goes without saying that leaders of church societies are vulnerable if their religion and their commitment as church leaders are public information. In doing so, the Council of State points out that Article 30 (9) of the Directive allows for the possibility of foreclosure of personal data in exceptional situations where access to such data exposes the beneficial owner to a disproportionate risk. According to the Council, the disclosure of a person's religious or philosophical belief may be derived from the membership of a church society, with the result that this circumstance may play a role in the assessment of the possibility of the protection in an individual case. I quote the Council of State: 'These directors may be exposed to disproportionate risks or to undesirable behaviour, such as intimidation, harassment or blackmail. The overriding general interest of money laundering and terrorist financing should then in the concrete case depart from the fundamental interest of the beneficial owner that his personal data are not accessible to the public." However, the interpretation of Article 30 (9), which has so far been chosen by the government, means that only a reference to a list of police protection, a central list or decentralised lists can be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u22	I have listened with great interest to Mr Essers' speech so far. I fully endorse his serious concerns about this privacy law. I can assure Mr Essers that the Minister is not going to solve these problems today. But there is a very simple solution. Why isn't the CDA voting against this law? Because I can also predict: the CDA is going to vote for this law. So my question is: why do you not just vote against this law, with all these serious concerns about privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u23	I would like to thank Mr Van Strien for this information, because we have not voted against or voted in favour at all. That depends on the answers the Minister is about to give. I have expressly said that we support the objective of the directive and the legislative proposal. Who could be against that? But indeed, we consider the proportionality of the breach of fundamental rights to be very important. It needs to be weighed up. I am not finished with my speech, but I hope that the Minister will be able to deal with it in a very good way, so that at the end of the journey we can say: we agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u24	My question to Mr Essers would be: does he think that the Minister can respond to this law in such a way as to satisfy his wishes regarding privacy violations? Can he imagine anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u25	Certainly, and I will be making a proposal shortly, partly on behalf of two other Peters in this Senate, which does justice to both the intention of this bill, namely to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, and contributes to the privacy protection of these people. But I'll get to that in a minute. I told you, you can only get on a protected list under certain circumstances. Other grounds of protection, other than threats, are minority and inability to act. According to the Government, a request for the protection of the public data of the UBO should be considered on a case-by-case basis, with a detailed assessment of the exceptional nature of the circumstances. This reaction from the government does not convince us. In the opinion of the members of the CDA Group, the possibility of foreclosure under Article 30 (9) should also apply if members of church societies are not on such police protection lists. In our opinion, the government does indeed have the right to establish a closed register for cases where there is provision for threats to be made, which only gives access to competent authorities, the FIU and persons of legitimate interest. Of course, it will require additional capacity to assess such requests, but that seems to us entirely justified by the right to privacy of these UBOs. In our opinion, this assessment should not be subject to too restrictive tests. A director of a church society who has not been threatened so far can be threatened tomorrow. But then his or her data has already been on a public register, with which malicious people can benefit. In other words, registration in such a public register increases the risk of threats. The plea I make is supported by the fact that the government initially even intended to exempt church societies completely from the obligation to register. This would mean not only that there would be no public registration, but also no protected registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u26	Mr Essers is in fact advocating, by means of a detour, the establishment of an exemption position for the leaders of the churches. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u27	Not in the sense of an exception which would only apply to directors of church societies. Anyone else in similar circumstances should be treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u28	In fact, anyone who could rely on the fact that he is not threatened today, but perhaps tomorrow he will, so he will be entered in such a register.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u29	No, I'm out of line. We are talking about people who call for freedom of religion and who can be associated with a religious belief. You can also turn that into 'political conviction', for my part. I am a little opposed to your reasoning that the only thing at the time was not to support the request to the Council of State: that is an a contrario argument. If we say that we see a category here that is threatened or threatened, that does not mean that you exclude other similar cases. That's not the issue at all. This category, however, is directly affected by this legislation. Others will have to be examined on a case-by-case basis, whatever this law provides for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u30	Mrs. Karimi, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u31	Mr Essers says: these organisations, so the church societies, have to deal with this bill. That is correct, but organisations for the protection of civil rights, for sexual orientation and for a political conviction may not be threatened with violence today, but tomorrow they will be. They would all be able to count on this wide-ranging treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u32	If necessary... Again, I'm not gonna talk about all the other cases right now. We have now really looked into these churches, also because the government had initially excluded them. The directive does not provide a great deal of opportunities for the exclusion of institutions, but they were excluded. Then there was an amendment, which the government strongly dissuaded. We've requested information from the Council of State. He has made it clear that he can well imagine that these people should be given additional protection by creating a protected register based on Article 30 (9).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u33	I heard Mr Essers specifically say: we are against money laundering, we are against fraud and we are against terrorism. But doesn't he give a free pass to make people at the front declare that they feel threatened, after which they are placed in an exceptional position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u34	No, I have more confidence in the authorities who have to check this out than you apparently have. And please bear in mind that the protected register is indeed available to the competent authorities. In the government's proposal there was no register at all, not even a shielded register. So, in my view, this is a much better proposal than no register at all, because this takes into account the fact that church societies are being abused by criminals; I do not see it that quickly, but I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u35	That's right. And with that, you're giving them the opportunity to say yes, I'm under threat, and so I can go on with my criminal activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u36	Again, I don't think it's that easy. I think you should do more for that, but my point is that by making it public, the risk of threats increases. So you also have to take into account the specific position of those drivers, so that they could be considered as a threat. Of course, that has to be tested. As you know, you have 18 months to register. Those 18 months must, of course, be properly completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u37	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u38	I'm just gonna get back to it. It would therefore mean not only that there would be no public registration, but also that there would be no protected registration, on the basis of the government's original proposal. If the directive made this possible in the government's opinion at the time, then that is a fortiori the case for our proposal to place the data of these drivers on a protected list. Such a protected list does not prevent the efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. The competent authorities will continue to monitor these UBOs. This also responds to the idea underlying the Van der Linde amendment. Moreover, according to our information Finland and Malta have church societies excluded from the registration requirement. Can the government confirm this? And are there any other Member States to which this exception applies? Moreover, the government indicated that, at the time when considering exempting church societies from the obligation to register, it indicated that it would be reconsidered if this were justified. Mr Schalk asked for this too. But what exactly has led the government to reconsider this exemption? Is that the understanding that church societies are being abused, or is that purely the adoption of the Van der Linde amendment by the House of Representatives? Moreover, the Minister did not recommend this amendment at the time. The way out that we are now proposing to the government meets both the legitimate desire to protect the privacy of church leaders and the fear behind the Van der Linde amendment that church societies may also fall into the hands of criminals. We therefore call on the Minister to follow our suggestion in this regard as kindly as urgently. Together with my first names Ester and Schalk, I intend to table a motion on this subject in the second term if necessary. We look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Essers. Finally, Mr Otten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Peter van der Voort on his maiden speech earlier this afternoon. Mr. Chairman. Today we are once again debating the implementation of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, as was the case on 21 April this year. We also had a debate on this at that time. Let us begin by pointing out that, as a JU, we are of course against money laundering and for as much transparency as possible. That is not at all the subject of any further discussion as far as we are concerned. I'd like to be the first to say that. On 21 April, less than two months ago, we warned the Minister that the measures that would then be taken on the basis of the Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive, which, as often happens in the Netherlands, went further than the directive required, would lead to an exodus of the innovative crypto industry. At that time, JU filed a motion to mitigate somewhat the Dutch additional registration obligations imposed by Finance and De Nederlandsche Bank on the fourth anti-money laundering directive in order to maintain this innovative sector. Unfortunately, this motion didn't make it. Mr. Chairman. We've been two months. This law entered into force on 21 May. Last week, the NOS already reported that more than 30 crypto companies have already left the Netherlands. That is how quickly it is going to be if we, here in the First Chamber, pass an ill-thought-out law. That aside. Today we are again discussing the implementation of the fourth anti-money laundering directive. We have some comments to make on the bill. As I said, as a GO in general, we welcome maximum transparency. However, we must be careful with private data, such as addresses and the like. That has already been mentioned by several speakers. This includes, for example, what used to be possible in the Trade Register. In the Trade Register, certain individuals could request the blocking of certain private data which were considered too sensitive. You could use that here, too. A lot has already been said about the churches. I really want to be very clear about that: as far as GO is concerned, we are all the same in the Netherlands before the law. We do not want any exceptions for church societies or other religious institutions. "Equal monks, equal hoods" is, as far as we are concerned, the motto. As for the abuses: in churches, of course, some things have happened. We have seen a lot of legal procedures over the past few decades. There is no reason why church societies, mosques or other organisations should not be included. There are more than 1 million entities under this law, so as far as we are concerned, the churches can join that. When I look at this discussion, I believe that it is already 60% of the time of this debate on the role of the Church societies, one thing is very clear to me, namely that there is an enormous political influence on the legislative processes on the part of the Church societies. That is another reason why this exception should not be tolerated at all. I am glad that the Van der Linde motion made it in the House of Representatives, with only one exception, I have just selected 78 votes, a very secular group of parties who have rightly called the bell there. I am pleased to see that this secular group in the First Chamber is even bigger, so I assume that this exception will not be introduced through the back door in the First Chamber. As far as we're concerned, as I said, we're all gonna go naked with the buttocks, including the churches, the NGOs and all the other organizations, so we can see who's the ultimate benifical owner, the UBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u41	I hear Mr Otten talking about the churches. He stated in his speech that he felt that these churches should not be favoured in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u42	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u43	But can they be harmed? As the Council of State points out, the leaders of these churches are likely to be threatened, discriminated against or excluded. Everyone in the Netherlands is protected from disclosure of data, for example about your beliefs. But this law makes sure that administrators of churches have to undergo it. Does Mr Otten consider that acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u44	Yeah, I'm sure that's acceptable. If you want to use the Dutch legal infrastructure and if you want to become a director of such an entity, this is the consequence. If you don't want to, you have to put someone else on the board who will. So I think that is extremely acceptable. I do not see any reason to make exceptions to this, because others have already indicated that other people are also threatened. Politicians also have and love their whole lives in the newspaper; I can talk about that myself. Think also of people from organizations with all kinds of political purposes, you name it. The refugees were already remembered, but many more cases are conceivable. I understand from the explanatory statement that about 1.5 million entities are covered. Slightly more than a million of them have already registered all of this. I see no reason to make an exception for religious institutions, especially since they are also financially involved in politics. That's what I've been able to see in person. So I see extra reason to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u45	The last comment, about what Mr Otten personally experienced in the spirit of the churches or something like that, I cannot quite place, but let me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u46	Donations of Religious...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u47	No, Mr Otten, Mr Schalk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u48	Let me finish my question. How does Mr Otten look at communities of faith which are clearly threatened? Think, for example, of anti-Semitism towards Jewish communities. Those who dare to play a steering or controlling role there must therefore be included in a register, so that they can be traced by name and name, address and so on, precisely by organisations that may be looking at terrorism, anti-Semitism or discrimination. Isn't it wise to make an exception for that, so that these people aren't even threatened?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u49	I told you before: equal monks, equal hoods. You might as well say that about some millionaire or a wealthy family who says: our children are threatened with kidnapping; we are also in trouble. They're gonna have to be naked with the buttocks, too. So we can't get started on that, because then it becomes a very arbitrary thing. If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen. Then you'll have to put someone else on the board who has less trouble with that. Or this kind of organisation can also settle in a very different area. Then perhaps they will be faced with the same directive. But I really see no reason to make exceptions on an ad hoc basis and to say that all the rules apply to everyone, but we are the church, and we do not have them. That's not gonna happen to me. I see the Constitution on the mantelpiece. That's an old version. Article 1 of the Constitution states that everyone is equal before the law. In no way do we want to discriminate on the basis of faith, church society or religious belief. As far as we are concerned, we do not do that in the UBO register either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u50	Mr Schalk, the third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u51	Mr President, the third and last, I think. I would also like to look at Article 1 with Mr Otten. In church societies, it is precisely one of those parts of Article 1, namely belief. That millionaire is not about Article 1 of the Constitution. It does not say in Article 1 of the Constitution that people with a certain ability become different...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u52	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u53	I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u54	I was just finishing my sentence, Mr. Chairman. It does not say in Article 1 of the Constitution that people should or should not be discriminated against on the basis of a particular asset. Of course, that's not supposed to happen. But this is about religious belief, about church societies that are threatened in a number of cases. I would ask Mr Otten's group to pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u55	Mr. Otten, after your answer, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u56	As I said, Article 1 mentions non-limitatively a number of examples: gender, religion, race and so on. It says "on any ground." That includes this. But take, for example, the PVV. They have a leader who has been under serious threat for decades. I think he's threatened more than your church leaders. But they will also have to make public what is going on with their finances. They do. In fact, I think that's a much better example than the driver you mention. So it's equal monks, equal hoods. As far as we're concerned, we're not gonna bargain with it. I am very pleased that more and more parties feel the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u57	Mr. Schalk, I think you'll get the same answer whatever you ask, but make one more attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u58	I finally agree with Mr Otten in this debate. It is, of course, horrific when a politician, in this case of the PVV, is threatened, by anyone and anyway. We should not want that for that politician, but not for those who dare to stand in the front row of a church society or a community of faith that we know is threatened by anti-Semites.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u59	Please continue your argument, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u60	It's a repeat of moves, Mr. Chairman. But I will continue my argument. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister about the ICT aspects of these changes. That is one of our favourite subjects, as loyal followers of GO will have understood by now, because the Dutch government doesn't exactly have a great track record when it comes to managing major IT projects, although the Trade Register and the Chamber of Commerce have so far been a very positive exception. My question to the Minister is: how much do these ICT changes cost? Has the BIT, the ICT Test Office, one of the GO's favourite organisations, which monitors government IT projects with very high added value, been consulted on this? We would like to hear the answers from the Minister. We look forward to the debate in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Finance, after his cathedral has been placed. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u62	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. It is common for you to meet here in the Knight's Room, but that is a bit special for me, although I can see that the chair is not yet fully aligned with those who have had enough milk to drink in their youth. It reminds me of the exam set-up that I remember with horror, but it is very special to be here with you in this composition. May I also warmly congratulate Mr Van der Voort on his maiden speech? A judgment does not suit me, of course, but I enjoyed it. I was immediately reminded of the moment when I myself, although in the real First Chamber, had that honour nine years ago. Thank you to those Members who have taken the trouble to put forward and discuss some of the issues that are outstanding in this legislative proposal. I think and hope that, on behalf of the cabinet, I can respond to many of the comments and concerns that have been expressed. I will deal with a number of issues. I think there's a sleeve that can be adjusted. I'm gonna do that in such a way that I'm not gonna rush those who were already excited about the bill right back out of the tent. First a few general remarks, then I say something about the operation, then the church societies, then privacy and then other. Mr Otten mentioned it and other speakers also mentioned it: the UBO register is, of course, coming for a very good and important reason. I don't think that's up for discussion in the Chamber either. We are really engaged in an extremely intensive and long-standing fight with organised crime and much is not going well enough there. The arrival of the UBO register is, of course, only a very small part of the solution, as many Members have said, but all the experts we are talking about indicate that something like the UBO register is certainly a step in the right direction. The register is of great value, both in terms of prevention and the fight against crime, involving legal persons. On the other hand, attention has rightly been drawn to the need to look very seriously at the other thing that we consider so important in our society, privacy. That is precisely the reason why personal data, such as the name, cannot be searched for and that everyone is obliged to register, apart from the fact that I understand that people say: couldn't you also use the figure of a stroman, who you often encounter in criminal law? Those guarantees are there. In addition, the consultants of the register will also need to identify themselves in a reliable way, and individuals who are in the register will have an insight into how often their own information has been requested. On top of that, we have used the Member State option to protect individuals' data in exceptional cases. That is an initial response to Mr Essers' speech. I would now like to prelude on what I am going to say, also to Mrs Karimi. We really believe that this has struck a good balance between the two things to which we all attach such importance: transparency, which should help us further in the fight against money laundering and the careful preservation of the privacy of people whose data are included in the register. As far as the operation is concerned. Mr Van der Voort's question was to what extent the law will contribute to the fight against terrorism. It's a fair question. I'd like to be the last one to pretend this law is going to solve that problem. At best, the law's gonna help a little bit. At the same time, many of the people we are talking about, also from the field, say that there is so much to do, and this too is very much needed. They also point out that with everything you make up from the government side, you then return to the next version of the cat-and-mouse game. Everyone in this Chamber who has said 'yes, but, not again, are criminals accommodating here' is, of course, absolutely right. Because that's what crime always does. Mr. Chairman. Mr Essers asked if the data were checked for accuracy. Yes, there are several mechanisms to ensure that. The KvK will also check for supporting documentation with each task. This also prevents just a random person from being registered. Intuitively, I look that way, but Mr Essers is important in the new arrangement on the other side of the spectrum. Secondly, the Wwft institutions and competent authorities are also subject to a reporting obligation. Thirdly, the register is linked to the registers in other Member States. This way you can effectively monitor in the area of users and stakeholders. Mr Van der Voort asked the right question: is the register sufficiently equipped to carry out the registration properly? That question is a little along the lines of Mr Otten's comment, which is more frequent in asking about the quality of the implementation organisations. An extensive implementation plan has been drawn up, it has been carefully looked at, also at the front. For inclusion in the register, the KvK shall take a test to determine whether that substantiated documentation also belongs to the specified person. If inaccuracies are detected, the declaration shall not be processed. At the same time, we will follow this closely and, of course, we will look carefully at how this is going, even if it is only because we, of course, still have some work to do in relation to implementing organisations. I understand, therefore, that questions are being asked and critical comments made. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Voort asked whether there would be no great preventive effect if consultation would be free of charge. Frankly, these costs are limited to the administrative costs of providing the data. This is also in line with the general funding system of the KvK. Anyone who, like myself, has checked that, knows that it's not entirely free. At the same time, it is not very expensive. To be honest, I think that is wise. Mrs Karimi asked a question that was also addressed in the House of Representatives: what if investigative journalists and other organisations that rightly advocate transparency want to look at it? I think, just looking at all the feedback that has come to this, that something of a fee will not be prohibitive for journalists. For this, the costs are not proportionate to the potential usefulness of the information. And also for journalists, of course, it costs, for example, to interview someone or to visit someone or to do any kind of research. I think this is proportional. The fee is therefore explicitly no higher than covering costs. Then what are we talking about? Because you want it in hard euros, of course. It's $2.50 a time. Then Mr Ester asked a very valid question, namely: what are the follow-up steps, if we are to find known criminals through the UBO register? That's exactly the kind of boybook question I asked myself. An important objective of the UBO register is, of course, to detect crime. Search services may use that information. Then you're gonna go into the normal criminal process and then you're gonna see what's going on. This can then be involved in criminal prosecutions against criminals. In doing so, it helps that those authorities have unlimited access to the data in that UBO register. We hope, of course, that it will help. I would also like to make it clear immediately that the more effective it will be, the more criminals will anticipate it. I'll be back at that cat-and-mouse game. Mrs Karimi asked: how will the effectiveness of the register be evaluated? It is really important that users, as well as other stakeholders, will always be involved. I mention the competent authorities, such as the investigative authorities, but we will do a broader question. The whole system to help combat money laundering and terrorist financing is being evaluated once in a while. So we'll take that into account, too. Mrs Karimi knows that Minister Grapperhaus and I are very keen to take important steps forward. It was, I think, also Mrs Karimi who asked about European cooperation and interconnection. All EU Member States must enter the register. These registers are linked and can eventually be questioned via a central platform. At the moment, the European Commission is working on the technical and legal details of this, precisely because of the point we discussed earlier: it must be done as effectively as possible, but also with guarantees of privacy. This link is expected to take place in the course of next year. Mr Ester asked: are the sanctions sufficiently robust and dissuasive? That is almost a philosophical question, of which you must say: we will find out. It is important that we consciously opt for a dual system. There is potential for action in both administrative and criminal matters. This makes it possible to impose a penalty charge, in combination with an administrative or criminal fine. For the maximum amount of the administrative and criminal fine, which I believe was also a question from Mr Ester, we have sought to join the maximum categories of fines in the Trade Register Act, and I would first like to see whether that is the right effect and what you can learn from it. In my mind, of course, Mr Ester's remark is that it might be relatively low for criminals. I recognize that, even as a former member of the Committee V and J of your Chamber at that time. But, of course, that goes wider. So I think there really is a preventive effect. The amount isn't nothing. Then the church societies. I understand very well the concerns expressed by Mr Ester and also by some of the other Peters, but that is not entirely up to me. How do I feel about the suggestion of setting up a closed register for church societies? I think that was Mr Ester's question, but it was echoed by others. The concerns surrounding the church societies, of course, I understand very much. That's what I shared with the House of Representatives. That was precisely the reason why the cabinet had provided for that exception in the proposed legislative proposal. But yes, the debate in the Lower House has run as it has. That is why the present bill now also applies to church societies. The directive is based on public access and allows for protection only in individual cases. A generic shielding regime for a particular entity is not possible. It is then also the question of whether you should consider that desirable. However, given the history and the fact that the points have been raised, and I think the substance of the matter is relevant, I am happy to say to your Chamber that at least I can see how I can facilitate the recognition of legitimate appeals to the protection of UBOs of church societies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u63	Can the Minister explain exactly what he means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u64	I'm referring to what I just said. I'm making a distinction between two things. On the one hand, protecting the generic group. From Mr Ester's point of view, I understand that question. It's complicated. At the same time, I think I have understood your Chamber in such a way that it is only waiting for an individual to have a problem, perhaps not giving the right level of comfort at the front either. So you have to puzzle, a little bit in the dark, or you can do even more and if you could actually react proactively to certain signals that have been mentioned here in the Chamber. This leads, for example, to my second commitment to Mr Ester, who was the previous question from Essers and Ester together, because Ester also asked if I am willing to talk, that I am very willing to talk. If something is so sensitive, then I really think it is up to the cabinet to talk and see how, within the contours of that law and within the contours that we have agreed with each other in the Netherlands but also in Europe, you can still respond to the concerns that live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u65	But the Minister agrees with me that this can't be done just for church societies? If you are planning to do something like this, so take into account possible dangers and consequences for a particular group, then you should extend it to all kinds of other groups. I would like to know on what basis the Minister thinks he can make that distinction without discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u66	Then we are back to state law, in Article 1: All those who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. I have always learned under state law that the second sentence is then de facto superfluous in the first sentence, but in particular in that second sentence we are still trying to express specific categories. The concern that has been expressed here, and that is precisely the motivation behind the exception, focused on religion. That does not mean that one of the other grounds mentioned in the second sentence of Article 1 is subordinate or otherwise appropriate, but here is the specific concern. I think that at the time when you would have a similar debate on race or sex, for example, this is less easily imaginable or one of the other specific categories as mentioned in the second sentence of Article 1, you should also take action on this. I can't see what would be against having a conversation with church societies right now because of the concerns that live there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u67	Mrs. Karimi, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u68	I must say that I am listening to the Minister's answer with increasing amazement. It's fine that the minister talks with ecclesiastical communities. I am concerned with the first action the Minister mentioned: generously to see if the church societies can be included in that protected registration. Then I think the Minister's argument has been discussed, so I do not think that it is really possible. As Mr Otten said, apparently the lobby is strong here and those other groups have not had enough lobby to raise their views loudly. In what way will the Minister avoid discrimination against groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u69	The temptation is, of course, lurking, also for me, to extend the scope of state law, especially with the last thing Mrs Karimi says. As if the cabinet, by talking, would discriminate against other groups; that was the wording Mrs Karimi used. That's exactly what I'm talking about, because that's how lawyers do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u70	I've been trying to make it clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u71	I have not yet given you the floor, Mrs Karimi. I'll let the minister finish. You're gonna have an interruption if you want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u72	What I very much agree with Mrs Karimi is that no distinction is made between the importance of one of the groups appointed in Article 1 of the Constitution. By the way, it also says "or on any ground" or similar words. So it includes everything. By the way, there are many in this house who say that it is too little specific and that we need to extend the second sentence of that article. However, that phrase is crystal clear: it applies to each of those groups. So you must not discriminate on the basis of race, you must not discriminate on the basis of sex, you must not discriminate on the basis of political will. "On any ground" means that you should not discriminate on the basis of orientation, disability or whatever. I believe that the cabinet should fully implement this and take it very seriously. If Mrs Karimi asked if we could agree with the cabinet that we are going to monitor whether or not something is happening to any of those other groups, as mentioned or referred to in Article 1 of the Constitution, then I will tell her immediately. Only, in order not to want to have a conversation with a group where it plays specifically, I find it too short a turn. In my view, the point I made at the beginning should be comforting, because I have expressly said that the directive only allows for protection in individual cases. Mr Ester asked for a generic foreclosure, but I cannot meet him that far. But I do think I should meet him so far by saying that we're going to see how we're going to deal with this. See some of the examples that have just been mentioned. The terrible situations of some synagogues have been mentioned. Then you still have to look at it at an individual level, because that is what this legislation requires. It is a long answer, Mr President, but it is so fundamental and so important that I am okay with making this distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u73	Mrs. Karimi, still on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u74	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u75	Mr. Ester, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u76	I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment to enter into talks with our churches. I think it is an important moment in the debate. I am not concerned about playing all kinds of groups against each other, but we have asked the Council of State for information, particularly on this point. Then it is not surprising that this point comes back to various speakers in some intensity. I'm very happy with the conversation. I would like to hand over to the Minister, who mentioned it just now, especially to involve our Jewish community. You said that there can be no generic shielding. I understand that, but here we are dealing with a group for whom the word "registration" alone rings all kinds of bells. We do not need to share that horrible history now, but I do think it is important to mention in this debate that this group has become a victim of registration as a whole. We really need to deal with that. I would like to give the Minister specific attention to this in his conversation with the churches. Maybe as a follow-up question, I can ask him how he sees that conversation and what he wants to bring in. We are, as Christian Union, but I think I am also speaking on behalf of the other Peters who have stood here, helping the churches to ensure that they do not fall victim to this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u77	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u78	I fully understand why Mr Ester refers to the calamity of history and what Jewish fellow citizens have been told. Of course, there's no way to describe how terrible that is. It places every debate on registration in a particular context. I too have been there, and I agree with him that it is totally unacceptable, but totally unacceptable, how some synagogues should protect themselves. I very much agree with him. So I want to take the feelings that live there very much into the conversations and at all the explanatory statement, because that will be the reason behind this bill, including those in the Jewish community who are churchly, or I must say: they are going to the synagogue. The other bumper, of course, is that I remain in agreement with Mrs Karimi with the individual. When you arrive at a church association where you also come to the conclusion, in dialogue with, for example, the justice or police, that the situation is worrying for individual directors, you still have to judge that person for person. That's the other side. So I understand very well the sentiment, the feelings and the legitimate concerns. Sentiment sounds like nothing but sentiment, but I really mean the worries that live there. I'd really like to address him. But I also want to highlight that we have to do this fully according to the law as it stands and that I therefore have the other bumper of the generic provision to take seriously. I think I'm going to meet Ester, but there's a point where I'm going to have to disappoint him again. I think that's real here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u79	Mr Ester, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u80	I understand what you are saying, but I would like to say that the Jewish community is also concerned with institutionalised anti-Semitism. That is not just a matter of an individual being threatened. That goes well beyond that. I think you feel very well what I mean. You're also showing your empathic side. I appreciate that very much. But there is tension between rejecting generic treatment and the fact that anti-Semitism is unfortunately institutionalized in the Netherlands, and is therefore generic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u81	Yeah, and that last thing is, of course, to piss off. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Of course, that's to really, really pissed off. However, this means that we have a huge mission, as a cabinet and as a society, to stand up for all groups. Especially for those groups who have to worry about their own security, such as unfortunately parts of the Jewish community. This must then be done in such a way that it fits within the framework of the law. This piece of the law is about us having a reality through the amendment from which I have to act. I really have to go that far with Mrs Karimi, because that's just like the cards are. I'm not going to make a generic exception. Then you have to look at how many individuals that applies. Once again, the Ministry of Finance has really not been equipped for that. You're gonna have to talk to other people who have been quipped for that. Of course, that's the tension. I understand that, and I see it in the debate. But that's how it's gonna be. That's how we have to move forward with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u82	Maybe I should give it a little more thought. I'm happy with what the Minister says. I also very much welcome the conversation with the church societies themselves. Of course, we still have a certain period of time to gain experience with it. I also understand that he says there is no room for generic exceptions. I would ask for some attention to be paid to the special position of church leaders. So it may be that members of a board have indeed had concrete threats, but not yet the person in question. It is, of course, foreseeable that they will be possible, especially if their data are still recorded. That is my question to you when you say that you want to facilitate that. Do you think these things should be taken away? I don't mean in a generic sense, like, I might be threatened. No, there's evidence that other drivers are threatened, and then there's a new driver who hasn't been threatened yet. How is it handled?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u83	I'm going to go on a bit of slippery ice right now, in the Ministry of Justice's field of activity. I think that, in consultation with those who have been equipped for this purpose and have knowledge of threat analyses and this type of problem, and also on the basis of their compass, you should proceed to judgment. In addition, you still have to look individually. Of course, it is obvious that that is the other side of it, certainly given the sensitivity of this law and given the debate we are having here that you talk with each other about this with more proactivity at an Amsterdam synagogue than at a Frisian rural church, without wanting to offend anyone, even my ancestors. Maybe there's something else there. But that's exactly what the Justice Department does. Justice and police are focusing on the places that people think might go wrong. The police are also surveilling more in places where they expect threat to occur than in places where history seems to show that things are getting pretty peaceful. I hope that will give Mr Essers sufficient comfort. I think it is real to sail on the compass of those who have experience in this. I also think it's a very Dutch solution.That's why I was there to look into a conversation: what do we mean by this law? We also want to remove concerns, in all ecclesiastical societies, but certainly also in the Jewish community, in dialogue with those who understand enforcement and threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u84	Mr Essers, a short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u85	Thank you for that answer. Are you prepared to share with us the experiences that will arise in the coming months, perhaps for years, but I am looking at a period of 18 months? I understand it's hard to talk in general terms. You need to see how it works out in practice. There are real concerns within organisations. Can you inform us within that 18-month period of how this is going to work in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u86	I'd be happy to admit it. I refer this not so much to the sake of peace, but rather because I think it is a real question of Mrs Karimi's comment whether we encounter any signs that there would still be cause for concern in relation to those other criteria. You bet your ass that if those signals were there, the Justice Department and the police would get that kind of signal. Isn't it elegant if I pledge generously to report on those two things, at least once in the next 18 months? That would include: what is the aftertaste of the conversations we have had? This should include: what are the first experiences? By the way, I would add that 18 months is quite a short time, because such an evaluation must start after a year. But let me do it in 18 months, also for comfort here. My proposal would be to repeat that and do so again three years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u87	I thought Mr Schalk was first in line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u88	Last night I was in my church and there was a window knocked off the front door. I asked what was going on. The singer had taken away a man, badly wounded, who had smashed the window because he was angry with the Christians. Of course, he was lovingly received and delivered to the police, after which he was taken to the hospital. Of course, this is not comparable to the Jewish community we have just been talking about, but it is symptomatic of the things that can happen. I hear the Minister saying: I cannot take a generic measure, but I do have to talk to them. Can we then see with each other that there seems to be a problem? We already know from the documents that there are because you can be in such a police register, or because you have reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then it's considered on a case-by-case basis. But what does the commitment to Mr Ester actually mean when it comes to the statement: we are going to look even more closely at those individual cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u89	Mr President, you are dealing with the order, but I am almost beginning to suspect that the assessment of how long I would have been working on this block, perhaps a little optimistic. It's asking for a more detailed explanation. And maybe that's good, given the importance of the subject. I do not want to be disqualifying about the example that Mr Schalk has just given, but I find his question whether there is a problem, quite frankly, rather short. The reason to enter into conversation with church societies is because there are concerns, in politics and also in church societies themselves. That in itself is enough reason for me to talk to a group in society, which we also need to do with non-religious communities, whatever cross-section you would choose. I think that is why I thought Mr Essers' suggestion that we should also look at what this research is going to yield. This also applies to the research I have promised Mrs Karimi. I thought she also spoke for Mrs Sent, but when I saw Mrs Sent standing up, I thought: perhaps that is a misunderstanding. So we need to take that into account as well. On the question of whether there is a problem, I say: so far we do not think there is a problem. There are concerns and specific concerns about specific groups. I was talking about a Frisian country church. I don't want to suggest that nothing ever happens there, but it's of a different order anyway. I keep repeating that than a synagogue in some neighborhoods of Amsterdam. So let's do it this way. Then we'll come to judgment about what we find. That's one. And two: I think it is a good idea to talk to each other and to explain. The question is: what is the reason behind this law, why does it help, why is it all reasonable? I think that's just wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u90	I'm about to intervene. Indeed, things are getting too out of hand in terms of time. Mr. Schalk, do you have a very short final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u91	I fully agree with the Minister when it comes to the qualification of the example I mentioned. As I said myself, it is not, of course, comparable to what was happening around the Jewish community. I was just trying to make it clear that someone who is now taking off on a windshield of a church building will be able to see who the leaders of that church actually are. That is actually the problem we are discussing today. The Minister calls it something other than a problem, namely a concern. Okay, I can live with that. My brief question is what additional shielding option the Minister sees, as requested by Mr Ester, in addition to what is already on police lists and at the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u92	Again, I don't want to take anything away from the scare that can arise, whether it's a church, a community center or a football club, if there's some bullshit there or a window smashed in. I just think the jump from that incident to the register is very big. That's what I wanted to mark. On the basis of Article 1, I make no distinction in this, whether it is an office of a political party, an office of an organization that stands up for minorities or an office of an organisation that stands up for people of a particular race, their sexual orientation or whatever. I assume that scares people and that you must want to act against it. However, I do not think that what has happened in the real world to Mr Schalk's church is indicative of the conclusion that the UBO register is going to cause problems. Why do I want to talk? That's because there are concerns living. You have to look fine-meshed, for example in the situation of synagogues, and listen to police and justice how to deal with that. The cabinet can really expect more proactivity with regard to the conversation, with regard to threat analyses, and so on. I'm really gonna take those steps. At the same time, the UBO is a guardrail, a bumper, as I said to Mrs Karimi. A generic exception is again not possible. It's about in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u93	I will give the floor to Mr Otten. I would like to announce that I will suspend at 5.30 p.m. so that the Minister can prepare his MO which he has until 7.30 p.m. with the committee. At 5.30 p.m. we will continue another debate in this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u94	May I try to finish it at that time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u95	Yes, but I have to suspend at 5:30; that's in nine minutes. Mr. Otten also has an interruption. Perhaps you could make a brief interruption, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u96	The reason you're off schedule, Mr President, is because I think we've been debating church societies for an hour and a half. As a lawyer, I'd almost say, "I'm left with my case." It is now being pretended that those 1.5 million people who have to fill this out, which is a lot of work and red tape, are all money launderers. But 99% of them are decent, hard-working people, who are not waiting for all this red tape. But oh, the churches are so pathetic, we don't have to do it all for that and they should be an exception. Well, far from it. In fact, Mr Schalk of the SGP owes his second seat to one vote in the province of South Holland from another group in this Chamber, which cost them a thirteenth seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u97	Mr. Otten, you're way out of order right now. I'm still asking you to go back to the bill. Moreover, we have been working on this subject for too long. I'll give you a short chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u98	Schalk was okay with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u99	But we're not going to talk about voting relations in the provinces. We are talking about a legislative proposal now, and I would ask you to limit yourself to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u100	Right, but it is clear that there can also be financial interests in this kind of political process. Therefore, there is no reason to exclude the churches and religious institutions. In fact, there is even more abuse lurking there, also because of political interference, as we see here. I think that the Minister is too much of a skipper and that he should just be clear. The law is the law and it applies to everyone. And so not: you're a little pathetic and you're not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u101	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u102	Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u103	I really object to the list that has just been followed. I have said from the outset that of course we are all equal before the law. The law applies to everyone: lex dura, sed lex. It's as simple as that. In this country, you solve a lot by talking to each other. The cabinet is not concerned with anything unusual by looking at people who are rightly concerned about such a synagogue, and not on the basis of the opinion of any political party, but on the basis of what police and justice say about the threat. That's real, isn't it? That's a real balance we're putting here, isn't it? I would think and hope that Mr Otten, too, will be able to experience this. Mr President, at least I have answered all the questions in this block twice, I think. So I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u104	How many blocks do you have left, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u105	I have a few very short questions about privacy and then there are the other questions. Mrs Karimi asked: is the register "public" to be called? Absolutely. It is still for everyone to consult. It's a public register. Mr Ester and Mr Essers asked what the international playing field was like. Mr Ester asked about Germany, Sweden and Italy and Mr Essers about Finland and Malta, I believe. There is currently no overview available. Moreover, Member States are always difficult to compare. I would suggest that we make an overview of this at a time when it has been implemented everywhere. Then that'll be clear, too. Maybe you can take that with you in the 18 months. Why do the banks not have full access, asked Mr Van der Voort. The answer is that some sensitive personal data of UBOs is only accessible to competent authorities, i.e. the bsn, the address and the documentation. As part of the plan against money laundering, which I drew up with the Minister of JenV, we looked at what you would have to increase here. We have asked the AP for advice on this. The AP indicated in December that the need for this information was insufficient. I found it inspiring in itself that Mr Van der Voort asked a question that perhaps was not immediately in line with the concerns that sometimes exist in his party about privacy. But the category of 'free spirits' in the First Chamber is, of course, very much to be welcomed. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few things in the category "other" and then we're really a long way. Mr Otten wanted to know what the construction costs are. They're 8,8 million. Mr Van der Voort wanted to know what legislation is still being initiated in this area either by me or by Europe. As regards the registration of UBOs, only the registration of UBOs of trusts or similar structures is provided for. This obligation to register also follows from the amended Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive. This is a very relevant subject that we have also discussed before. Of course, we are busy improving the prevention and detection of money laundering. In fact, I would very much hope that we could talk to the Second Chamber and also the First Chamber about the legislative proposal that we are in the process of preparing for data sharing during this cabinet period. Then Mr Van der Voort asked about the BES. An interesting question. The obligations laid down in the European directives do not apply to the Caribbean Netherlands. The Caribbean Netherlands has its own rules for the prevention of money laundering, the so-called Wwft-BES. There is currently a change of the Wwft-BES at the Lower House, in order to strengthen the legal framework, because we also see that what you want to do well here, you must also want to do well there. Mr van der Voort then asked about the measures taken by the cabinet in the field of tax evasion. In particular, he referred to the image. The image is there, but I actually think it's even more important what you're really doing. In particular, the previous Secretary of State for Finance has done a lot of things that stem directly from the government agreement in this area, and so does the current Secretary of State for Finance. He also recently announced new things in the newspaper. The cabinet is therefore really working on a movement in the right direction, which is also in line with Mr Van der Voort's concerns. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions from the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-16-eerstekamer-10.u106	Thank you, Minister. I shall suspend the debate on this bill until after dinner, until 7.30 p.m.
