ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34986, supplementing and amending the Environmental Law, repealing some laws on the physical environment, amending other laws and regulating transitional law for the introduction of the Environmental Law (Enterprise Law), as well as the draft decision 34986, letter D: draft introduction decision Environment Law. I welcome the Minister for Environment and Living to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Jenga is a game of skill whose name comes from Swahili. It means as much as "to build" The game consists of a square tower that is composed of loose cubes. The game is played by removing blocks from the tower and thus building the tower further up, without removing a block leading to the collapse of the entire tower. Smart and strategic building can create a large tower, which, despite the holes in it, stands still and remains stable for a long time. Mr. Chairman. I would like to explain why I make the comparison between this agility game and the Introduction Act Environment Act. Today we are at the beginning of a wide-ranging process of plenary, in which we are discussing a package of laws in the coming months, all of which give substance to the new implementation of environmental law. This should lead to an integral, coherent structure of laws and complementary decisions, replacing the current environmental system. It aims to create a coherent system, without overlaps, contradictions and omissions, with the additional aim of simplifying and merging a patchwork of laws. When I started working on this file, I soon realized that we are dealing here with a huge legal structure. The endless amount of information and the vastness of the various subjects covered by this structure will lead to the loss of courage. Is a healthy dose of reading sense and rigidly enough to gain sufficient insight into the structure as a whole, so that we can make a weighted assessment of its quality? So the question that came up to me and which kept popping up was: how is this balance to be made in a good way and how are we, as a group of Forum for Democracy, going to approach it? I quickly noticed that the specialist specialists in this Chamber, such as colleagues Rietkerk, Nicolaï, and Janssen, are already familiar with this subject in such a way that their logical reflex seemed to be one of focusing and zooming in on the various and many relevant details, in order to identify possible gaps in the structure and thus to build up the complete overview further. We are pleased that she and all other fellow senators have completed their expertise in their own way and with their specific knowledge. I am therefore pleased to see that we have been working together on this dossier, where subjects are even divided among ourselves, which will make the forthcoming debates clear and hopefully complementary to content, whatever the final conclusion of each group. But, Mr President, our group is going to approach this differently. I need to have an insight through overview and will therefore look at this structure with a helicopter view, in order to assess its robustness. If I were to characterise this introduction law, I would compare it with a complex system that I know from my field of expertise, the air traffic management system of Air Traffic Control Netherlands, in which man, machine and procedure interact in a complex infrastructure 3D puzzle. Each change of this system is thoroughly examined for the effects of these changes on the system as a whole, with the mind of the system logically dictates the implementation of the changes. These changes are then bundled into an air traffic management transition plan, especially in the case of large, complex changes. Therefore, I consider the now-present Environmental Law Introduction Act to be a transition plan for the great change in environmental law and I will try to assess it as well. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the substance of the introduction law, the Forum for Democracy Group would like to hear from the Minister whether she would like to reflect on the current system of parliamentary assessment of complex legislative changes such as those currently before us. In spite of the legal opinions of the Council of State and the additional opinions of the independent Integral Advisory Committee on Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, should we not consider whether these major system changes should be assessed at an even higher systemic level, with more glasses than just a legal one? Is a more systemic overall approach not preferable, to avoid omissions and unintended side effects in complex laws, in particular by looking at coherence with other laws and the various effects for users? Is Parliament's final assessment for this in the current situation the appropriate instrument, or is there no information or an analysis that should be obtained by a system check? I would like a response from the Minister to these questions. It is inconceivable that the present laws will not have unintended side effects that are not foreseen in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u4	Does the Group of the Forum for Democracy believe that we now have all the information we need to make a good judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u5	Our group believes, as far as we have read the information available, that we have a very complete picture. But I tried to indicate that already with the parallel of the Jengators, of course there will be gaps where information is missing, but hopefully they can be filled in afterwards. But we estimate that the structure as a whole and the enormous amount of information are sufficient for an assessment. If it's complete, I'm afraid to judge. I would also like to say a few words about this complexity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u6	But "a Jengator" doesn't sound like you're experiencing it very firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u7	I'll come back to that, if you don't mind. It is inconceivable that the present laws will not have unintended side effects that are not foreseen in advance. This also explains the consideration I have had to make, as undoubtedly several of my fellow senators have done, about the degree of thoroughness of studying the present legislative changes, because literally reading everything is almost impossible to do. I too have the fear of passing a law which will later be said: how could you overlook it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u8	First of all, Mr Dessing compares the Environment Act with the air traffic control system. That seems to me to be a very inappropriate comparison, because we would soon have a mid-air collision here every week. This is a law full of holes. You probably know the Swiss cheese from flight safety. All those holes in the cheese are once in a while all in succession and then you get a chain that often ends fatally. That's exactly what's going on here. As regards Mr Dessing's comment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u9	Do you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u10	Yes, my question to Mr Dessing is: you say that you are not legally able to judge this correctly, if I understand you correctly. Are you familiar with the article Stop the Environment Act of Mr. Jan van der Grinten and Mr. Kortmann, two leading lawyers in this field?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u11	In the many information I've read, that's one of the things that's come along. I have also read this and I have taken it into account in the overall considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr Van der Grinten is the home attorney of the Forum for Democracy, as Mr Dessing may be aware. He was among others the lawyer in the case against the State at the court of The Hague on compliance with the referendum on Ukraine. He is not the first, and neither is Mr Kortmann. Let me just confront Mr Dessing with his own home attorney. They literally say: "The motto must be: better in half than in complete error. Here's a strong plea to stop the introduction of the Environment Act. No one gets better from this, except for the law." That is what the home attorney of the Forum for Democracy says. So I'll give you your legal advice here as a gift, if you like, from your own attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u13	That's right. I read that piece. I certainly do not want to put aside the expertise of a home attorney at the Forum for Democracy. Nevertheless, as a Forum for Democracy, as a First Parliamentary Group, we make our own assessment of the overall package of information, of which this is part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr Otten, your third and final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u15	I understood that Mr Dessing had some difficulty with the legal assessment of the Environment Act. I think I'll give him a hand. There are also very good examples that show why we should not start with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u16	I took that to me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u17	Maybe Mr Dessing will get there, but I will see the question. I know that game, too. It's a very nice game. I don't play it with my frightened grandchildren, and most of the time I lose too; you know what I mean. You're gonna play that at some point because you feel like it, for example. But what I would very much like to know from you is this. You talked about a transition plan, how you're going to assess it and whether it's robust. But why, according to the Forum, is this Environment Act really necessary, and why should we not simply be able to amend some of the existing legislation? I haven't heard that story yet. All I've heard is that you're going to look at the building. But if we're gonna have to put the building down, I'd still like to know about you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u18	I would like to come back to that in my contribution later, but the bottom line is that I mentioned it earlier in my speech: simplification of our group's laws is extremely appealing to our group. We now have a patchwork of laws and they get a more logical, simpler and clearer structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u19	Then I'll come back to that piece, not to refresh your legal knowledge. Two specialists say that it is not a simplification at all. Thus immediately, while he was always doing only spatial planning, the municipal official has to go into the environment at once, so they state. It was two separate areas and they are now merged. It's not simplification. That's one. The second is this. We hear they're so much less law articles. In fact, on the list of speakers you already saw the number of pages we are talking about today. When I put it all together, along with all the nice cubes that are still coming up, I'm at 5,500 pages. Take a lot of explanations from that, and you'll have a lot of pages of articles left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u20	What is your question, Mr. Nicolaï?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u21	That's what the gentlemen say. They say that there has been a bundling, but that is not simplification. What's your reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u22	I would like to say something about the amount of information and what that means for its complexity and assessment. I would also like to say a few words about what that does to the officials who have to carry it out. I would like to go back to that in detail, if that is all right with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u23	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, had and have the fear of passing a law which will be said later, "How did you forget?" Think only of PAS legislation, which has also been overlooked, with all its consequences. On behalf of the Group of the Forum for Democracy, my question to the Minister is: how does she assess the overall assessment process, and is she convinced that this is a sound review system, with a guarantee of a robust, valid and enforceable package of laws? Mr. Chairman. Now to the content. First of all, our group would like to thank the Minister for answering the many hundreds of questions that have been put to her, which gave us a good idea of the quality of the legislation on introduction. Our appreciation is also due to the speedy approach taken by the current Minister, who took over this dossier from her predecessor and thus jumped on a moving express train. What is of interest to my group is the intention to simplify the current system, which I was referring to just now, which increases the transparency of environmental law for users and/or citizens of this country. Our group welcomes the intention to have more coherent laws and implementing decisions whereby municipalities as implementing authorities can offer more flexibility and tailor-made work than is currently the case. After all, the Group of the Forum for Democracy warmly welcomes any initiative to reduce bureaucracy in the government. SMEs and VNO-NCW share this view. We are aware that it is a major challenge to regulate spatial planning properly in a small country with various areas and interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u25	In the Environment Act, a lot of powers may go from the city council to the college of B and W. Local authorities can choose to do so themselves. How do you view its democratic character? You are talking about companies, but it is also, of course, about how citizens experience it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u26	Sure. I believe that it is a good thing for citizens to have a simpler procedure for applying for permits. I think that this is a pre and that the participation needed by participating in this single application is also a clearer process for the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u27	This applies to the citizens who may want something, but the majority of the citizens will not want anything. They don't want a wind farm in their backyard. The possibilities of appealing and objecting to this or having a sleeping city council to participate actively in it, or even to submit their own ideas, are becoming less. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u28	"A sleeping congregation." I believe that this is an understatement of the quality and also the efforts of several municipalities for the implementation law. If there are omissions in that, then I see a task there for the government to support. I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u29	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you. In addition to the assessment of feasibility, legality and effectiveness, I will consider the procedural side, the human side and the machine side of this legislation. Mr. Chairman. As far as the procedural part is concerned, our group agrees with the independent Integral Advisory Committee on the Environment that the legal structure of the Environment Act seems to be well and systematically solid. The vision "decentral, unless" provides a good balance between the general state rules determined by the central government and the decentralised rules which will be translated by the municipalities into new environmental plans in a single package, the so-called dowry. The structure and guarantees for a good transition to this new final situation seem well secured in this introduction law. As far as the human part is concerned, there are two groups of people involved in the assessment: the user as an applicant for a new environmental project on the one hand and the official as part of the administrative municipal and provincial organisation on the other which allows the implementation of the new Environment Act. Both citizens and civil servants must be instructed, informed and/or trained to work with this new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u31	Fortunately, the Netherlands is a bit bigger. There are 17 million inhabitants. A lot of people aren't gonna apply and they're not gonna be civil servants. I would ask you to comment on this in your speech: what is the role of the resident in a village, in a neighbourhood in relation to the role of the official and the initiator?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u32	I'll come back to that in a moment, because I'm also... I shall come back to that later in my speech. From the answers to the questions, it has become clear to the Group of the Forum for Democracy that great steps have already been taken on both sides. There are many provinces and municipalities that are already preparing this transition or even thinking in the spirit of the new Environment Act. There are also plenty of training courses going on for municipal officials. Mr. Chairman. Where for our group there is still a point of attention, is there sufficient attention to the human factor during and after implementation of the Environment Act. This is because, because of the comprehensiveness of this legal system, it may be a risk to the civil service in particular that, when problems arise, every municipality must be able to remedy these problems, both during and after implementation. Our group is reassured that, in this context, the provision of the tree structure of the DSO system is part of the dowry, the start-up package that municipalities receive. Our group is pleased to see that after-care for problem-solving remains available for some time during but also after implementation. We are thinking of implementation and aftercare teams that continue to help the municipalities as a problem solver and challenger to ensure the knowledge and skills of the civil service. Can the Minister give this to our group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u33	For the question you mentioned the implementation and aftercare during and after authorisation. You were talking about the municipalities. You mentioned problems, and so does the CDA Group. My question is as follows. Do you see a team of problem solvers only in municipalities or also in water boards, provinces and environmental services, so in all local authorities? Or do you only see it in the municipalities? Then the CDA Group might be able to build on that in its contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u34	I think that knowledge and skills are important for the entire civil service, and I think that is equally true for provinces and waterboards, although I believe that the municipal civil service will get the most out of it. But it is a general point in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u35	The supplementary question is as follows. That's gonna cost you. In the round of questions we all asked the cabinet, the government, about the resources. Do you ask how much human power is needed and who pays the bill, to the Minister, or do you have an idea of your own?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u36	I am asking the question because I believe that it is clearly important as a condition for proper implementation and completion of the very complex process that those knowledge and skills of those involved are up to date. We do not yet have a concrete explanation of how that should be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u37	I have a question for Mr Dessing. What do you think of legal protection for citizens under the proposed Environmental Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u38	I see there's still legal protection. Of course it is arranged in a different way, but I still see that as sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u39	That is what many experts and also the Council of State say that there is an essential risk that the citizens, the public authorities and the courts will not be given sufficient guidance to provide legal protection at the present level. Now the Forum for Democracy, a party of which I myself have been at the cradle, has been set up mainly to give influence back to the citizen. "The country must return to the citizen," I think is one of your slogans. You are in favour of direct democracy, more citizen influence. What this Environment Act does is that the legal protection of citizens is falling dramatically and that the government is only gaining more power and becoming more centralized. That goes literally against everything you stand for. How can you reconcile this with your own principles as a party is my question to Mr Dessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u40	I don't see it that way. I see that a simplification of laws gives citizens an overview and that there is certainly something like general legal protection. We are therefore making a different assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u41	I would ask Mr Dessing to do more legally, because all the lawyers of name and fame, including his own home attorney, believe that this legislation creates so many open standards that citizens and also the administration will no longer know what they are up to. The existing legislation is case law. Everyone knows what to do about that. This is a classic case: if it ain't broken, don't fix it. Because the cure is worse than the ailment. That's not just what I'm saying; that's what lawyers say by name and fame. Mr Nicolaï, Professor of Administrative Law, also has the necessary expertise in this area. I would really like to ask you to take a very good look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u42	I believe that simplifying procedures, reducing bureaucracy and empowering and making citizens more independent means that they can do so for themselves. I don't think we should be in a country where we have to regulate everything completely. That is something other than legal protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. Otten, a third time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u44	Yes. That's beside the point; that's not the point. I conclude from this that Mr Dessing clearly does not see what is happening here and what he is doing now. You are creating a lot of legal uncertainty, not only among the citizens, but also in the judiciary and administration, because there are many new standards. No one knows what they're up to. I would like to mention, for example, the exempted licences: no one knows if they are exempt. When you build your house, you want to know if you need a permit or not. But you don't know that, and it's not an appealable decision. It creates a huge legal uncertainty. "Give the land back to the citizen" is certainly not this. This is: giving the country back to the government further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u45	I do not hear a question, and I would like to leave that observation to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr Nicolaï is waiting. Or not for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u47	I sat down because Mr. Dessing promised he'd explain why he took those stones to build. I thought, "I'm gonna walk away and at least I'm gonna be here on time."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u48	No, I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u49	I shall continue with what Mr Otten has just said. How do you weigh the balance between the three powers in the Netherlands within the system of the Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u50	Can you specify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u51	The legislature, the executive and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u52	I don't see any imbalance in that. That is all I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u53	Then let me ask the question differently. How do you think citizens can achieve their rights, for example with regard to wind farms? Indeed, much changes in the powers between the city council, the college and also the way in which the judiciary can judge what is being presented to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u54	I think the hallway to the judge is still a hallway that the citizen can make now and can make just as well later. So I don't see a problem there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u55	Mrs. Kluit, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u56	There are possibilities for research being removed. I will say something about that myself later. Possibilities are also being removed to present views. With this law, you are removing rights that citizens have. I think you really need to think about this as a forum for democracy, because it is strange that you do not bring this up as a democratic party at all in your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u57	I still see in this legislative amendment, in particular by simplifying it, a very democratic and citizen-minded government. Mr. Chairman. It is also our observation that there are still many steps to be taken by the various users in terms of knowledge, information and practice, although it is clear that the system must be ready for this. Can the Minister reflect again on how she will ensure that the applicant is also well informed about the new Environment Act and how to deal with the applications in the new situation? Is this also taking into account the difference between the old situation and the old situation? Building on the PvdA's question, informing citizens goes beyond the application, of course, because I think that this is a general question and that citizens in this country should be well informed about this change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u58	I am not just concerned with informing the people. That seems to me to be a very good point, and I will ask that question later. I am also concerned about how your party, if there are initiatives or an environmental vision, sees the participation of residents, residents, job seekers and house seekers in order, for example, to get a good view of the environment. Or do you say civil servants and initiators, figure it out together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u59	No, I think that the citizens are certainly mature enough to find their way to the government, if they have a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u60	Are you aware that many Dutch people are low-literate and that many older people do not use the digital means? Then how do you see that in relation to the power you are now proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u61	I think this starts with information. I think that information by the government, even in a very accessible way, is very important to make it clear that this is about the establishment of our country's infrastructure. I will say something about this later in my contribution. It is a task of the government to explain clearly to citizens such a complex and comprehensive legislative package, so that it can make its own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mrs. Nooren, a third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u63	My final question: and if there is a concrete initiative, because there will be more freedom in the Environment Act, so a initiator may come up with an initiative from the principle of equivalence himself, how do you see the relationship between the initiator and the inhabitants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u64	Mr Dessing and I suggest that we let him finish his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u65	I think this is very nice. I welcome citizens' initiatives. How exactly that will take shape, that will have to be demonstrated. There are still a lot of open holes in this story. I think that the intention of the story, which starts with good information, will ultimately lead to good participation, because it is clear to everyone where this can lead. That's what I can say about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u66	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the system part of the assessment: the DSO. Looking from the helicopter view, the visible output of this system is the best check if the system complies with the design specifications of the Environment Act. We are talking here about the DSO, the system support and software translation of the structure of the Environment Act. As far as our group is concerned, the construction of this new integrated system is a symbol of the system itself, in which the software as a basic structure under the hood is a translation of the transition from the old to the new legal system. The structure of this software is similar to a tower of Jenga. There must be sufficient connection to be able to process all forms of complex environmental applications, to keep the structure running and to keep it running. In addition, the open holes should lead to a manual route, via a helpdesk or a window, to the desired output, a legally correct environmental request. Mr Verkerk of the Christian Union will address this in more detail in his contribution, also on behalf of our group and a number of other groups. The further implementation of the structure in the DSO will have to be done by local authorities. They must complete all regulations and laws under the hood with sufficient expertise, so that all forms of applications can be processed correctly through the various tree structures. Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u68	Would you like to finish up, Mr. Dessing? Your speaking time is well over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u69	The state of the DSO in the current, unfinished state, as demonstrated to the committee members last November, gives my group confidence in the robustness of the structure of this system. This seems sufficiently robust to be further developed and supplemented in an iterative manner in the coming period. By answering the various questions about the DSO, my group has confidence in the system approach, in order to obtain the desired basic level of the DSO in time, and we do not consider the possibility of dependicularisation, disengaging, of this system to be significant for the time being. However, we see a potential risk of a complex new system built for a public service. Examples from the past have shown that despite promises made in advance, these IT projects can derail costs and functionality. Our question to the Minister is therefore whether she can indicate what she considers to be the greatest risk in this IT project and how this risk has been mitigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u70	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u71	I have a final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u72	No, you really need to finish now, because you're a minute and a half past your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u73	The conclusion will have to be that, despite the simplification of the system, we are looking at a comprehensive package of laws. It will have to be seen whether this will result in workable environmental law, with the Forum for Democracy group willing to give the intention of the legislative package a chance in its implementation. The Jengators seem stable, with a useful guide for the players and with a robust set of game rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u74	There is still time for a few brief interruptions, because we have now doubled Mr Dessing's speaking time. I would ask Members to address, first of all, the President and not the speaker, which many Members are doing. Secondly, I would ask you to be somewhat reluctant to interrupt anyway, because if we continue at this rate, we will double the speaking time from five hours to ten hours in the first period. Thirdly, I asked you to keep the speaking time of interruptions short in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There is the possibility for short interruptions to clarify questions. The statements are expected to be made in your own term. I'll give you two more. Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u75	Yes. I have a question for Mr Dessing. He's bringing in the control tower himself. How's it going in that control tower? Then does one person have a certain responsibility, or are you going to do the landing and the start with five men at a time, so everyone does everything a little bit? Can you tell me how that goes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u76	I would like to say something about that, but I think that we will go a little further over the speaking time. It's a team in which we work together, in which everyone has their own team role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u77	Exactly. The Council of State warns. Now, in the current legislation, the responsibilities are clear, but the Council of State says: there will be partial responsibilities of several governments; "intergovernmental friction" the Council of State calls that. Well, that's a euphemism for administrative chaos. So if we were to do this, and if you were to do this in your control tower, there would also be a lot of inter-administrative friction, with all the consequences of that. I would therefore like to call once again on Mr Dessing to learn a little bit more about the Environment Act, in order to arrive at a better informed judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u78	Can you do that in your own speaking time? The interruptions are intended for short, additional questions for clarification. Mr Nicolaï for a brief question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u79	Well, Mr President, perhaps Mr Dessing still intended to answer my question, but he has not done so so so far. Why does that tower need to be built anyway? I think that's the first question you have to answer. And then I have a short other question, which relates to questions about democracy. The Council of State warns that it is going to be so complicated for smaller municipalities, that they are going to outsource many tasks to environmental services and agencies. Then technocrats come back to the municipality. My question is: what comes of the democratization that Mr Dessing has talked about if the alderman does not even know what he is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u80	I see a role for the government in this, so that the municipal authorities can be well informed. And then I still have the confidence that that's gonna work out. I don't see the chaos myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u81	A brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u82	Last remark, yes. I keep hearing "I see," "I see," "I see," but I feel like we're getting into some sort of strange discussion here. For we have reports from the Council of State, we have reports from experts, we have had that expert meeting, and Mr Dessing has also worked with us, but it is as if all the information that has come to us there has gone beyond Mr Dessing. I would therefore like to ask Mr Dessing, through you, Mr President, to look again at everything in his group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u83	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. We're gonna wrap it up. I'm going to see Mrs. Nooren. I call on Members not to make sounds of agreement or disapproval heard from the Chamber. That is also stated in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about the introduction law and the adoption decision of the Environment Act. We voted in favour of the Environment Act as a PvdA at the time, because it aimed to bring more coherence into everything relevant to the physical environment, make environmental law more transparent and create more opportunities for local customization. The challenge was and is to achieve an optimal balance between ecology and economics, and to protect and exploit sustainable development, health and safety aspects and environmental quality in the decision-making process. The Introduction Act Environment Act and the Environmental Decree, which we are discussing today, I refer to them further but for simplicity as "the Introduction Act" are not in itself. It is one of the building blocks I dare hardly use the word after Mr Dessing from the renewed design of the physical domain. Later in this Chamber we will talk about the supplement law on soil, noise, air quality and nature. The ambition to fill in the Environmental Law is now abandoned. The content of the National Environment Vision, the NOVI, has not yet been determined. It is therefore not yet clear how the integrated spatial considerations will take place at national level. The operation of the Environmental Act cannot be separated from the way in which we deal with nitrogen issues in this country, the pfas, the realisation of climate goals and sufficiently affordable housing for everyone. What makes this difficult is that many of the aforementioned building blocks are still in development, and that it is unclear how they interact with each other. As a result, I wonder if there is anyone in the Netherlands who looks at everything related to the Environment Act; it was also about it a while ago. Is this possible with such a complex law as the Environment Act, we ask the Minister, and is the intended simplification and integrality achieved? Are we not at risk that, in terms of spatial planning, not the people who should be talking about it, such as residents, initiators, elected representatives and administrators of municipalities, provinces and waterboards, but lawyers and advisers will be calling the shots? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. All this makes us struggling in this Chamber and certainly in the PvdA group with the question of whether everything is now sufficiently clear to accept the environmental law in this Chamber. We're not just struggling with this question. I have spoken to many people who are active in local and provincial politics and government, or who are otherwise involved in spatial planning. A number of names of lawyers have already been mentioned. Most of them support the direction taken by the Environment Act, but they still have a lot of questions about the concrete effects and implications; also about the role they themselves have to fulfil. Mr. Chairman. For the PvdA, the course of the debate will be crucial for the final assessment of the implementation law. In order to keep it manageable, we want to place the emphasis on points that are crucial to us. I am pleased that many parties have subscribed to this debate. The spokesmen have sought prior coordination on the accents they are going to make. Many of the questions that fellow speakers are going to raise relate to issues that are important for my group's final assessment of the implementation law. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the issues that are particularly relevant to my group in this consideration, I would like to thank the Minister, and through her all the officials of the various ministries, staff and directors of the VNG, IPO, the Union of Water Councils, but also the Registry of this Chamber, for the great way in which they have supported this Chamber in the preparation of this plenary legislative procedure. Mr. Chairman. The starting point of Environmental Law and with it the environmental law is to be decentralised, from the management philosophy in which spatial standards should take place at municipal level as much as possible. In the note following the report, the government states that involvement of higher authorities must be linked to interests which cannot be effectively and effectively addressed by local authorities. That sounds plausible when you read superficially, but the question with which the PvdA group is puzzled is whether the government has a clear view of how this is to be assessed, and what criteria are used by it. After all, there is a huge housing estimate in the Netherlands, whether it is social housing or housing in the rent or purchase price in the middle class. If we want to speed up this, we need control from the Empire. My colleague from the House of Representatives, Henk Nijboer, is now calling for weekly attention to this. In addition, in the context of the climate and energy transition, the task is so extensive that according to the PvdA more is needed than a stimulating and facilitating province or government. If we do not want agricultural land to be filled with logistical boxes, you should not leave it to local government alone, where there is a good chance that the preservation of nature and the landscape image will go against the municipal strengthening of the economy. We would like to challenge the Minister in this debate to give substance to the concepts of effective and effective representation of interests by local authorities in relation to the governing role of the government which she can take in order to represent and fulfil the task I have just appointed. The government states in the answers that it sees no parallels with the decentralisations in the social domain. The PvdA group will see it. There, too, a lot of room was given to municipal considerations. We now find reluctantly that some things can be better regulated above regional or national level. The question is whether, at a time when there are enormous challenges in the field of climate and spatial planning, the solution lies in increasing the local balancing area or in a government which, of course, takes control of the matter in consultation with other parties. Does the Minister recognise this and what lessons does she draw from this for the division of roles in the physical domain and the design of the Environment Act? More specifically, what can we expect from the content of the NOVI? We thank the Minister for the speedy answers this weekend on the NOVI. Unfortunately, they do not contain the clarity we want. It remains unclear at what points national choices are made and whether they will be imposed on local authorities by rules of instruction if necessary. Is the Minister prepared to admit that as far as nitrogen is concerned, as Remkes says, housing, mobility, nature, agriculture and energy transition, the sum total of what municipalities and provinces are doing, will not be self-evident and balanced? What does the Minister think of the report "Small country, big choices, spatial planning towards 2050" by the independent organisation Thinkwerk, which appeared last week and which also points to this? For our group, it is crucial that there should be a substantial NOVI. Otherwise, we have invested all the responsibilities at a decentralised level, but not the balance between what can and what needs to be done to address the above-mentioned issues. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Mr. Chairman. An important issue is whether municipalities are on track with the preparations and ready to fill in the enlarged space they will have from 2021. On the basis of the progress reports and the signals we are getting from various local authorities, my group is not reassured. If 50% of the municipalities are already aware that they have to do more than they thought and 30% of the municipalities are not responding to a survey on this, how can the Minister conclude that the implementation of the Environment Act can take place without problems in 2021? I would like the Minister's support on this point. Above all, it is a question of whether the elected representatives are able to fulfil their new role and how they will exercise adequate control over the policies pursued by the local government, the provincial government or the day-to-day administration of the waterboard. Early in the decision-making process, they need to determine their position and make crucial decisions about, for example, the way in which they operate outside the framework and the form of participation. If we are talking about responsible phased introduction, shouldn't we oblige municipal authorities in the early years after 2021 to actively point out to the board a decision they want to take and give sufficient time for their positioning? Or should we go further, where there is still an explicit decision to be taken by the city council on parts? How does the Minister see this? The members of the Municipal Councils will have to understand the consequences of the choices they can make in good time. How are we gonna do that? That's how we're gonna ask the Minister. How can we ensure that municipal councils can gradually work on the new role assigned to them? How do we prevent them from knowingly incompetently putting the direction in the hands of the municipal administration and then facing it when residents knock on their door? The written answers show that the government is fine with that. My group does not think this is a good thing. Following on from the opinion of the Parliamentary Committee, "Low thresholds, high dikes. Democracy and the rule of law in balance" in order to introduce a law on decentralisation, my minister's group wants to know how it is going to realise that adequate democratic control is taking place at local level. This brings me to a broader point, facilitating the intended cultural change. Working a philosophy of control in which in confidence, the principle of "decentral, unless," residents and initiators can come up with their own proposals that fit within the local environment vision, requires a change in attitude and behaviour of everyone involved in the Environment Act: civil servants, local politicians, directors and initiators. This is different from the current situation, where following rules is central. In 't Hout, co-ordinator of building regulations at the Ministry of the Interior, writes in the article The principle of equivalence of the Environmental Law that the uniform rules for citizens and businesses provide a basis for society. This will ensure legal certainty, equality and predictability. That guarantee falls, with the space provided by the Environment Act for its own initiative, largely away or, rather, will have to be secured otherwise. My group does not think it would be desirable for this to be completed only by means of case law. That's what it was all about. Does the Minister agree with us on this point? Whoever's gonna decide what's possible, we're gonna ask the Minister. In 't Hout lays down some preconditions for the principle of equivalence to work properly, such as sufficient frame of reference, low-threshold support structures with independent expertise for assessing alternatives, and dissemination over the internet of what may be equivalently accepted alternatives. How does the Minister see this? What can we expect from her in this? In preparation for this debate, I have read back the Acts of the plenary legislative procedure of the Environment Act. At the time, Minister Schultz spoke on behalf of the cabinet and Mr Verheijen on behalf of my group. It was extensive about cultural change. In that legal process, Minister Schultz spoke of a paradigm change. Is it not wrong that cultural change should come to the second plan for all the formal steps that are being taken this year and the technical matters that need to be prepared? Is there enough experimenting to learn what's important if you're going to work differently? I specifically ask you to do this. The government repeatedly writes in its written answers that local authorities and water boards will be fine, because they already have a great responsibility in spatial planning. But this without mentioning that how to do their job will be fundamentally different. How does the Minister see this? What is being done to actually achieve cultural change, now and also after 2021? And how is monitoring going to be carried out? Which brings me to a broader question about supporting the change. The programme Getting started with the Environment Act has been used to guide implementation. Very good. The reply states that this programme will run until the end of 2021. If that is not too short, we ask the Minister. Anyone who runs a big organization knows that working differently is a long-term issue. Is the Minister prepared to invest for a long time? seems logical until 2029 in the direction of change? We look forward to the Minister's reply to that. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to a crucial issue for my group. This is about the design of the participation. We were just talking about it. My former colleague Verheijen has already mentioned this in the context of the Environment Act. It is a misconception that there is room for people to be involved in the setting up of their living environment, as I say to Mr Dessing, is sufficient to ensure that people are going to use that space as well. After all, we learned from the WRR: knowing is not yet done. For the PvdA Group, it is important that all residents of the municipality are actively involved in the organisation of their living environment. As far as we are concerned, it goes beyond just the residents who have to be heard by an initiator. There is also a need for more than a law that allows civil society organisations and residents to express their interests in good time and to address local government. It is a matter of taking all relevant parties into account in advance. Think of: house seekers, elderly people who want to move but can't find an affordable alternative or people who care about nature but who haven't joined an action group. There are many examples to give. What can people do when a neighbor realizes an expansion and establishes a small business in it, which seriously hinders their view? What if a company is closed next to a small neighborhood where older people and young families live and where, before they know it, a shipping container storage is realized? How will that work in the future, so we ask the Minister. What are the steps? Where are the freedoms of the initiator? And what is good participation? What is good participation, which rules apply, etc., has not been filled in in recent years, unfortunately, despite the demands of my group in and after the debate on the Environment Act. We think it should be. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is convinced that participation means giving room without frameworks, as is currently proposed. The National Ombudsman also urges governments to put the citizen perspective at the heart of the organisation of the Environment Act and to help citizens to participate in the Environment Act. We expect an initiating, facilitating, normalizing and controlling role of the Empire, a government that monitors or participation that works in such a way that people feel heard about developments in their environment and can be sure that if they do not pay attention, they are too late to have influence on spatial plans or concrete initiatives. Stakeholders do not always have to agree with what is happening. Portrait, etc. understanding of initiatives will arise if residents and other stakeholders can actively participate and participate in the process in a timely manner. The government states in its reply that the law on strengthening participation is in preparation at the decentralised level. She doesn't think it's a problem that this law doesn't come into force before the Environment Act comes into force. The PvdA thinks so. Our proposal is to include in the adoption decision an obligation for municipalities, provinces and water authorities, in consultation with their people's representatives for 2021, to lay down matters relating to participation, for example in a participation regulation. Is the Minister prepared to admit this? If not, why not and what does the government want to do to ensure participation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u86	A question for Mrs Nooren. It is about participation and there is a reflection on participation. The latter I can follow a long way, by the way. Can you indicate how the PvdA Group is looking at the participation regulation that is already in place and the desired participation regulation that you now want by law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u87	This is what we're talking about. Space is forming in the Environment Act. It is said that the initiator should indicate whether and how participation has taken place. There are no agreements about who you should talk about, how it should be done, at what stage and how people should be approached. Now the city council has to pay attention and decide for itself whether to restrict participation. In fact, we would like all local authorities to have the talk about the Environment Act before 2021 and make a choice in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u88	Should there also be the possibility of achieving the same objective through the current participation regulation, with the policy surrounding it, as with the participation regulation you want...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u89	Would you like to speak to the President and not to the speaker?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Nooren through you: if the intention you are referring to could already be included in the legal instruments...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u91	Mr. Rietkerk, if you say "you," you're talking to me, but I can't answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mrs Nooren, would you answer this question? If it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u93	It's very difficult, but try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u94	You're talking to you now, to me. I would like to put the following question to Mrs Nooren. What is the difference between the current instruments and the intention in relation to the statutory compulsory participation regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u95	What my group is concerned with is that it is clear in advance. Now there is room for the city council to fill in the participation. They are not obliged to fill that out in advance. What matters to us, which we attach importance to, is that for the introduction of the Environmental Law municipal councils and provincial states, with their local directors, we start to think about the design of the participation, the forms they are going to use and about the division of roles between the initiators and what, for example, the municipality itself is going to do. I do not know so well that would be a nice question to the Minister whether that is to be settled in a new regulation or whether it is now in order in the participation regulation. Then it's okay. But on the questions raised by my group, the Minister said that she would leave that entirely open. I think it's too free.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u96	I have a question for Mrs Nooren. It is now the case that a city council is ready, in time for the local council's environmental plan, as a city council can indicate how it wants to see the participation. What makes that not enough for you? Any city council in the Netherlands can therefore make this weighting how it intends to organise that participation. That's exactly what they can capture in their environmental plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u97	That is exactly the key point. That's "can" where we say "must." We are actually saying that we consider participation to be so important that it does not depend on chance if a city council does so. In fact, we have heard from a colleague dikegraaf who said that he would like to present everything to the general government as a day-to-day administration. He was recalled by his lawyers with the announcement that that was not the intention. In fact, I think it should be a conscious choice in advance of how participation is shaped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u98	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Conditional for a customer-friendly implementation of the Environment Act is a digital system accessible to everyone and easy to use. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is impressed by the careful approach taken in the last year. At the same time, we note that not everything is finished, that the implementation of the national DSO is not yet complete, that the connection of the local authorities is not yet complete and that the filling with information from the local authorities is still a major task. What is going to happen now from the year of practice, we ask the Minister. What risks does this entail for a smooth introduction? We have learned that the choice of systems for waterboards has not yet been achieved and that due to all uncertainties ICT providers are cautious in developing, designing and adapting ICT systems. Are these signals true? If this jeopardises the establishment of a working system by 1 January 2021, we ask the Minister. In general, the question is whether the DSO is going to work as intended at present not to answer. In the light of our responsibility to assess the feasibility of the law, that is a difficult issue. We assume that when we discuss the KB introduction in this Chamber, we will explicitly consider the functioning of the DSO, both at national and decentralised level. For the planning, I'm gonna say this. For the PvdA, this debate only makes sense when the BIT opinion is in place, in order to provide an overview of the development of the DSO. For now, there is one point on the DSO that cannot wait until then. This is to ensure that an accessible system is built at all levels and for all people in society, with particular attention to the elderly, people with low literacy and people with disabilities, and that access is periodically assessed. In the written reply, the government states that the WCAG Directive applies to all public authorities. Here's the good news. The bad news, however, is that it is not going to monitor whether it is being applied. That seems to be a bad thing for my group. Experience with municipalities in terms of accessible information is not favourable, according to Velleman's PhD research among others. None of the municipal websites examined by this researcher complied with the accessibility directive. We call on the Minister to undertake to broaden the investigation into accessibility, to monitor the accessibility of the decentralised components and to ensure additional measures if access to the DSO cannot be guaranteed. Mr. Chairman. The implementation of the Environment Act requires a considerable effort from people and resources of all the organisations involved. My group is wondering whether they want and can invest in this. Municipalities receive less fees if more elements in spatial planning are permit-free. Is this taken into account by the state funding of the municipalities? Moreover, many municipalities are currently in a tight position because the costs in the social domain are so high that even libraries are closed down. The question that puzzles us is how it is ensured that municipalities do not delay the implementation of the Environment Act due to lack of money or fail to fill in. Does the Minister intend to make available earmarked resources for implementation? Or does she see other ways of preventing money problems from being carefully implemented? Then how is this monitored? Mr. Chairman. Like the PvdA, several groups have asked how initiators and other stakeholders are informed about the advent of the Environment Act and are supervised in working with it. Let me start with the first point. The government places the full responsibility for the provision of information in the hands of local and water authorities. The PvdA thinks this is too thin and too fragmented. Our proposal is that the government, as in the case of system changes in the social domain and, recently and today, in the Labour Market Act in balance, should assume its own responsibility and ensure an adequate national information campaign. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Then the second point, a little closer to home. Where can people go when they have questions related to the introduction of and working with the Environmental Act? In the written answers, the government indicates that in most municipalities there is a physical place where people can go. It seems obvious to the PvdA that it is necessary to regulate or perhaps it is already settled that this can be done in all municipalities. Will the Minister promise and see to it? That brings me to my group's final point of substance. Not only do we consider it important that the introduction should be accompanied by a national programme in the coming years. I was talking about it earlier. We also believe it is crucial that an independent committee should be set up to monitor the progress of implementation and implementation, taking into account issues that I raised earlier in my speech. I call the cultural change, the way to shape participation, dealing with the local area of the Environment Act, the DSO et cetera, et cetera. Is the Minister prepared to set up such a committee and make their findings available to the two Chambers of the States General? Mr President, I will conclude. The PvdA is aware that the discussion between this Chamber and the government on the implementation of the Environment Act is not limited to today's and tomorrow's debate. If the introduction law were to be accepted in this Chamber next week, the final judgment on the implementation of the law will be discussed as of 1 January 2021 if the background to the draft entry into force of the Environmental Act is discussed in the course of this year. A year which, due to all delays, is not the year of practice as we had in the exchange of views with the Minister and her predecessors. That is precisely what concerns the PvdA. It's a huge investment of human power and money. It only makes sense if spatial planning really gets better with the Environment Act and it is about a manageable implementation path. We are happy to be persuaded by the Minister in the follow-up to the debate. Commitments on steering in the area of shaping the participation and role of the municipal councils, a physical place within the municipality where residents can go, prominent implementation of the government's responsibility as a system responsible and a national campaign to inform people about what is going to change will be important for my group's assessment. We look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u100	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mr. Chairman. The objective is to bring the Environmental Act into force as from 1 January 2021. Today we are discussing the Introduction Act and its related Introduction Decision Environment Act. In 2014, the Rutte II cabinet proudly announced that the transposition into the Environment Act would be the largest legislative operation since the constitutional revision of 1848. Instead of 26 laws and 60 AMvBs, there will be one Environment Act, four general measures of governance and an Environment Regulation, focusing on the coherence and balance in exploiting and protecting the physical environment from a single Environmental Vision. So we get one simple law, accessible to every citizen, who regains control over his own environment. Pillars are: increased administrative discretion through local customisation of the governing body; cultural change within administrative bodies; civil participation: prior to projects, citizens will be informed so that there is more support for project implementation; and the prevention of legal proceedings. Mr. Chairman. Who can oppose these social objectives, in which all interests in the environment are taken into account? That basic idea will embrace everyone, won't it? That was also the reason why the Dutch Parliamentary Group 50PLUS voted in favour of this bill on 7 March 2019. However, during the preparation of this plenary session, received letters, explanations at the expert meeting, technical briefings and the answers to the many written and oral questions revealed the complexity and implications of this bill. Can we have sufficient confidence that all the levels of government, including the smaller municipalities and water boards, are sufficiently prepared to allow the introduction to take place in 2021? Will the citizen's perspective really be implemented as outlined at present? How is it ensured that the enlarged area given to local authorities does not adversely affect the quality of the environment? The answer to these questions on the legality and feasibility of the legislative proposal plays a decisive role for my group. Mr. Chairman. My group will support the questions to be asked by the Animal Party regarding legality, the questions of the Christian Union on the Remkes report, the questions of GroenLinks on the review of open standards and the questions of the CDA on the independent evaluation committee. However, this will not prevent repetition or duplication of questions. For 50PLUS, the focus of this legislative proposal is on the participation of citizens, the Digital System Environment Act (the DSO), and legal protection. Then there are a few questions about the financial implications of this system review. Civil participation is one of the starting points of the Environment Act. The involvement of citizens is very important in order to achieve better and widely supported decisions. However, the Environment Act does not prescribe how participation should take place because each plan or project is different. It is claimed that participation is tailor-made and does not require general rules; it is therefore completely non-formative. This freedom of form without a framework creates high expectations for citizens whose expectations are limited to whether they can be met. De Vries' amendment encourages an initiator of the Environmental Regulation to actively involve third parties, i.e. citizens and stakeholders, in the preparation of his application. However, this is not an obligation. Initiators retain the right not to apply to participation. In this case, the initiator will only have to indicate that no participation has taken place. In the note following the report of 10 January 2020, the Minister writes that participation will be given a firmer legal basis in this bill, which will make it commonplace. Does the Minister consider that entirely non-formative and non-compulsory participation can indeed be enforced by this law? How does the Minister imagine that? Does the way in which participation in environmental permits is regulated not resemble just symbol legislation? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Participation in the Van Dale is defined as having a share or share. participation'. In the context of the legislative proposal, does this mean actively involving, informing or involving citizens, I ask the Minister. Does this legislation encourage that all citizens will actually participate, not just the initiators and a handful of interested stakeholders, but also those who are at some distance? Please explain to the Minister how she imagines this in practice. The initiator of a project that can be both a citizen and an entrepreneur shall only provide information on whether or not a participation has taken place when applying for a permit. The Minister states in the note following the report that the administrative body must verify the accuracy of the information provided on the participation. The competent authority should also consider whether additional information on facts or interests is still necessary. 50PLUS would like to know which review criteria the governing body uses to assess whether further information is needed. After all, certain criteria must be in place for this, as my group asks the Minister. So why shouldn't these criteria or standards be guiding the initiator? On the basis of the Van Eijs amendment, the city council can identify cases of activities in which participation and consultation with third parties is mandatory before an application for an authorisation for an outdoor planning activity can be submitted. In this case, the initiator must demonstrate how participation has taken place and what the results are. But as stated earlier, it's shape-free. Does this imply, for example, that the initiator can be satisfied with digital participation, so participation only via the digital way? This can in many cases be an attractive way, cheap and fast. If only digital participation is allowed, to what extent can an administrative body verify whether the participation was representative? Its stakeholders of all ages are well and relatively represented at all in digital participation, I ask the Minister. Research agency SIRA has examined the effects of required participation in the Environment Scheme, but not whether prior and early engagement actually leads to a reduction in the number of views, objections and professions to be addressed. The assumption that participation will lead to a reduction in the implementation costs of the competent authority is therefore not supported by facts. My group would like to hear from the Minister why SIRA has not been instructed to check whether there is a causal link between early participation and the reduction of appeals and appeals procedures. This would support the Minister's argument that less legal proceedings would be carried out after the Environment Act was introduced. In theory, participation should be open and accessible to all. Not every initiator will focus on the hard-to-achieve target groups. In practice, the easy way will often be chosen. Our group is concerned about how insightful it is that the quality of participation is being met, and whether any administrative body can and will actually test it. I'd like the Minister's view on this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Digital System Environment Act, the DSO. Public information to citizens is increasingly being provided via the digital channel. Communication between the government and the citizen is increasingly determined by technology. In the meantime, this has become so self-evident that we are barely considering the fact that this way of communicating is not so self-evident for large groups in society. As a result, the less digitally skilled citizens are all too often excluded from public information flows. This while the government has a duty to serve all its citizens. The operation of the Environment Act is in fact entirely dependent on technology. The provinces, water boards and municipalities must all switch to a new digital system, the so-called DSO. Starting with a basic level. The governing body must designate software providers and it is up to the governing body to implement and keep up-to-date the new information and developments in ICT. A governance agreement was concluded in 2015. The following is said about the DSO: "Digitization is an integral part of the Environment Act. Without good digital support, the benefits of the Environment Act for citizens and businesses will be much less significant. An environmental law with good digital support contributes to the objective of reducing administrative burdens for citizens and businesses." Mr. Chairman. The administrative agreement shows a great ambition to implement the Environment Act. Now, at the end of January 2020, the implementation of the Environment Act has been postponed twice in connection with problems with the DSO. According to the Minister's letter of 16 December 2019, the National Audit Service, the ADR, has examined the status report and we can now move on to the next phase. The Association of Dutch Municipalities indicates that it expects all municipalities to meet the minimum criteria to work with the basic level of DSO on 1 January 2021. But is this expectation realistic? Already there are many signals from the smaller municipalities in particular that they do not have the expertise for the transition to the Environment Act and that it is already being hired at the expense of the municipal budget, at the expense of other community affairs. The note following the report talks about special regional teams to provide high-quality support to public authorities working with the DSO. How did these teams come together? What expertise do they have? Who is funding these regional teams? How long will the teams remain available to the local authorities? Can the Minister promise that these regional teams will continue to support those municipalities that need them for at least a year after the entry into force of the law and that their costs will be borne by the Empire? During the technical briefing on the DSO in November last year, it appeared that some modules still needed to be added and that the basic level DSO was not fully ready on 31 December 2019. According to 50PLUS, the ministerial commitment that the governing bodies would be given a whole year of practice to acquire skills with the DSO is not met. Previously, this exercise year was still a sine qua non for the entry into force of the Environmental Act. Does my group understand that the Minister is now abandoning the prescribed period of the year of practice? Or is the deadline extended by linking it to a later entry into force of the Environmental Act? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the note following the report, the Minister expects a coherent system to be established at local level in the future without contradictions, overlaps or omissions. Much participation and tailor-made work is expected from the municipality and citizen. The Minister reiterates that on 1 January 2021 municipalities will only have to meet a limited number of criteria and that they will have time to adapt their environmental plan until 2029. 50PLUS would like to know from the minister whether this time frame in combination with the customization of municipalities does not create a patchwork of laws and regulations within one province and between municipalities, partly due to different implementation of software. Will this not lead to large differences between municipalities, where one border municipality is clearly at the forefront of the others, creating uncertainty and uncertainty among citizens, resulting in an increase in the number of legal proceedings? Does the Minister share these concerns from my group? If not, please provide a detailed explanation from the Minister. I come to DSO for the citizen. After 1 January 2021, citizens and businesses will only be able to apply for permits via DSO. This therefore requires the applicant to be familiar with the system. How are applicants prepared for this? I'd like an answer from the Minister. In addition, DSO acts as an overall information provision, allowing citizens and businesses to identify developments and future projects in their living environment. In anticipation of the entry into force of the Environment Act, the National Ombudsman expressed his concerns about the participation of everyone in DSO as expressed in an article in the NRC d.d. 12 December 2019. By letter dated 18 December 2019, the Minister confirmed that good service to citizens remains essential, including for those groups of people who are difficult to reach. In the note following the report of 10 January last, the Minister acknowledges that good shaping of the participation process is not always easy and that it is therefore going to discuss it with the National Ombudsman, who is extremely critical of the supposed self-reliance of the citizen. The National Ombudsman is an authoritative body which focuses in particular on citizens' complaints about inappropriate government action and which regularly gets it right on his side. Does the Minister consider that the Ombudsman can indicate exactly how these difficult-to-reach groups can be involved in the development of their living environment in a timely manner? Is that the point of the conversation? I'd like a response from the Minister. In the reply, the Minister indicated that even after the introduction of DSO, the administrative services of administrative bodies at a physical point of contact can still be used. But the same statement states that governments can make their own choices about the level of service they want to offer their citizens. My group does not understand this contradiction. Can the Minister guarantee that the current Environmental Windows will continue to exist at each municipality, so that personal contact between government and citizens will be maintained? And, if so, how can it enforce that? Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to legal protection at DSO. Initiators who do use DSO and check whether or not they need a permit are at enormous risk. The reply emphasises that the information provided via DSO is only a service product. There is also a disclaimer on each page to be filled in. A result obtained through DSO that a project is not subject to authorisation therefore gives no absolute certainty and no rights can be derived from it. If the initiator starts working with the tree hood or the construction of the conservatory for which a permit is needed afterwards, there is a huge problem. 50PLUS is concerned that each initiator is well aware that the results of a permit check via DSO in fact give a false assurance. How will the Minister inform the potential applicant for authorisation about this? My group also wonders what the added value of the DSO is now asking the relevant administrative body only gives absolute certainty about the licensing obligation. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the abridged permit procedure. Due to rapid and rapid decision-making, the authorisation procedure has been reduced to only eight weeks. The government considers that the shortened procedure is sufficient to arrive at substantively sound decisions. The Ombudsman rightly wonders what effects this shorter authorisation procedure has in practice. The time constraints of the internal organisation of the governing body are highlighted. What impact does this have on the quality of decision-making? Can the governing body make a careful balance of interests in a very short time in order to reach a sound decision? Is speed above caution? I would like to hear from the Minister why she believes that speed would not adversely affect the quality of the decisions to be taken. As far as legal protection is concerned, my group asks the Minister to confirm that the possible grounds for appeal against the environmental plan in the Administrative Court section of the Council of State will be one-on-one comparable to the grounds against the current zoning plan, so there will be no limitation of possible grounds for appeal. What is an important difference between current and future law is that the environmental plan will enter into force before the appeal period ends. In addition, the administrative authority may provide that an environmental permit is to enter into force immediately due to urgent circumstances and a provisional request may be refused the suspensive effect. This has far-reaching implications for the legal protection of the applicant. I would like to hear from my group why the Minister believes that this breach of legal protection is justified. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the financial consequences of this change in the system. The financial agreement concluded in 2016 stipulated that savings associated with the implementation of the Environmental Act would benefit the administrative bodies. These savings are seen as covering the costs to be incurred as a result of this change in the system. The government therefore expects structural financial benefits after the introduction of the law. What is this expectation based on? Because after the start-up phase, the financial burden of updating the DSO software, implementing new regulations are passed on to the local authorities. How does this relate to the generation of financial benefits that the government is referring to? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Introduction of the Environmental Act is a major operation that should ultimately bring us social benefits and social added value. 50PLUS still has a long way to go to see how this will be achieved in practice. My group therefore awaits answers to the questions with particular interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u102	I can tell you that I am very impressed by the multitude and relevance of the questions. I've missed one more thing myself. Mrs Baay rightly said that a piece of technocracy, technical support and all these things are at stake. My question is how Mrs Baay's group is looking at the fact that smaller municipalities will soon be able to deal with very complicated environmental plans and very complex environmental permits, without sufficient expertise. They depend on environmental services or private agencies which cost a lot of money and can no longer, in the city council, take the democratic responsibility that should be normal. How does your group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u103	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Nicolaï for his compliment. This is exactly what the 50PLUS Group is already concerned about. Last Thursday I was at a small municipality, my own municipality Blaricum, where it was about something quite different; the energy transition. During that meeting it was stated that people are already hiring people, so this is at the expense of the municipal budget and thus at the expense of all kinds of things such as home care, youth care, street lighting, just because they do not have the expertise themselves. That is why I am asking for a longer period of time in my contribution for the support functions of these regional teams, and I must, of course, wait for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u104	Very briefly. We're both lawyers. We are used to reading legal texts. I have already indicated in several fora that it is an impossible law even for someone who is competent in this area. How will civil servants, if there is money to attract people, be able to translate into politics, so that there can still be a democratic accountability? That's one. The second question is: the man behind the window can now explain how a simple building permit works. Let me give you a note: if we are going to have a complicated environmental permit, which also involves all kinds of other aspects, because it must all be integrated, then that will go wrong. My question is whether you have already asked the Minister about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u105	I am not, but I will give the floor to Mrs Baay for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u106	In this contribution, I did not put a question directly to the Minister, but fortunately there are still a lot of political groups after me and I hope that those who have this expertise will also ask the Minister that kind of questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u107	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kluit on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a very strong tradition of spatial planning. It is always aimed at protecting the spatial quality in this busy country. We are also internationally known for this. I spoke to my Belgian colleague this morning and he was very interested in what we were going to do here tonight. As far as we are concerned, there are good ideas in the new system. The concept of integral thinking is good. The focus on sustainability and health is important and good. The fact that participation is an important subject for ministers is also very encouraging. GroenLinks is certainly not opposed to a clear legal process in spatial policy, where everyone can stand up for his interest. We are certainly not opposed in principle to renewing or modernising spatial law, but the question for us is whether the Environment Act actually brings about modernisation and whether, in everyday practice, modern values such as transparency, democracy and participation are not being undermined. To be honest, we are also very concerned about whether the interests of nature and the environment are sufficiently protected, and we are concerned about the timing of this renewal of law. I shall begin with a number of procedural observations and then substantive ones. First of all, we wonder whether this is the right time to talk about the introduction law in the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, there is really very important information missing, which is indispensable, about what is happening in local authorities, implementation practice or even ordinary people. Then what's it about? For example, the DSO and its operation. We do not know what the implementation costs are for the local authorities. We also do not know what the development costs are and what the pace is going to be. A BIT advice or a gateway review would have been indispensable in our opinion. And I am also talking about assessing the costs of implementation practice. We find it really impossible for this assessment to be made available this autumn and that we are already talking about implementation, while we are putting youth care and the WMO behind us. I'm talking about zero measurement in the VHT column: licensing, enforcement, supervision. We don't know what's going on with that now, so let alone knowing what this law is about. Finally, we do not know at all what is going on with the implementation of the implementation of a third of the municipalities. My first question to the Minister is therefore: how does she intend to deal with the risks that are currently unknown to the First Chamber, or insufficient in view, but which are important to have a proper assessment of the effects of the introduction? Can we also rely on the Minister to adequately cover the potential additional costs of problems that may arise in implementation, and which we cannot see at all now? In addition, we would very much like a commitment that the four points mentioned are clear at the time when we are going to talk about a Royal Decree. I'd like an answer to that. Then there is the question of the answer. It does sadden me to have to say something about this, and frankly it is not just about this law either. So let me take a look at the chairman, because this is also really addressed to you, Mr President. I hope that you will also bring this point to the attention of the cabinet. The cabinet is very ambitious at the pace it wants to make in the legislative processes. Very commendable, but as far as I'm concerned, we get too many questions back where there is a half answer or no answer. As I know from the Minister, there has also been a lot of work done by the officials, for which I thank them. I'm gonna take a look at you guys over there right now. However, I have a number of questions that have not been answered, so I would like to hand them over and then I hope the Minister will take them with him in the second term. And I hope the chairman brings this up with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u109	What are you going to hand over to whom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u110	I'm gonna hand over the questions that haven't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u111	To who?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u112	To the messenger, so he can give it to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u113	It's not customary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u114	Then I'll give them to you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u115	I'd be happy to receive them for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u116	Fine, then we'll have to read them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u117	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u118	Oh, I can go through? Okay, fine. Okay, let's go to the content. We focus on participation, timing and implementation of the Environmental Act. I mean Introduction Act, but I say for convenience "Environmental Law" because a lot has been renewed, so it's actually just the Environment Act. How are we going to achieve the necessary transitions? I am going to pay particular attention to the EIA. And I agree with the critical comments made by 50PLUS, the Christian Union, the CDA, D66 and the Party for Animals, for example on legal protection, implementation practice, both in municipalities and environmental services, and the impact on justice. The Environment Act has meaning for all Dutch people, and not only for initiators - although there is also a lot to gain for them if they come through all processes more smoothly. But the environmental law is not to be underestimated how important it is for people's daily lives. This law is essential for protecting vulnerable values such as health or water quality. This law is also essential for nature and biodiversity in the Netherlands, because this law must realise that the decline is coming to a halt and that we are even going to improve biodiversity with each other. And the law is also essential to the great social transitions of our time. I'm talking about the housing crisis, the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u119	May I interrupt you for a moment? May I ask for some rest in the benches? Please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u120	Whether people want to expand a factory, cut a tree or build a wind farm, or if people don't want to, the Environment Act is going to regulate how all this is done, and whether you actually have something to say about it as a citizen or not. So I ask my colleagues not only to focus on the initiators or the officials, but also on the people, the ordinary people, who are behind it. So can our citizens actually follow all this? As far as we are concerned, the Environment Act exudes an almost old-fashioned view of that participatory and I love to call them the litigants. Someone's gotta stand up for them tonight. These citizens seem to be seen above all as an nuisance force, an unnecessary delay for an initiator. However, we would like to point out to the Cabinet that this concerns citizens who exercise very fundamental rights. In fact, a critical input from these citizens is essential for keeping our democracy healthy. For in a democracy, the majority must also take account of the interests and wishes of the minority; whether it is citizens or businesses, I leave it in the middle. In the system, therefore, there must be a balance between the desire for change and the desire for preservation. That last position is, as far as we are concerned, not secure enough. Participation is too non-binding. The development of the rights that people can derive from them is a failure to make a real right in this law of participation. In the run-up to this debate, many parties have been looking for us, as has already been mentioned. They varied from professors to nature organisations to Stibbe and Kennedy van der Laan. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, they have raised real concerns. The First Chamber as the last station in the legislative process is obliged to assess whether the system works for everyone and not just for the initiators. I am going to illustrate this with three examples. First of all, no normal person in the Netherlands will know that this Environment Act is coming. There will be no central information campaign at all, there will be no national programme to help ordinary citizens find their way into the new system. Everything goes through the communication channels of the local authorities, making citizens dependent on their own municipality for their knowledge of this introduction. And although it is good if local authorities also communicate a lot, that does not relieve the government of its own obligation to deliver a clear message and an implementation strategy for citizens and businesses. Certainly not because the pace of introduction varies between municipalities, while a citizen may have an interest in what is happening in his neighbouring municipality. We think that the lack of a national implementation strategy for citizens is very naive. With the different tempos of municipalities, a campaign that is being rolled out on a decentralised basis is by definition inadequate. As far as we are concerned, a major national public campaign is indispensable. This campaign will focus not only on providing information, but in particular on increasing the capacity of ordinary citizens to act in the new environmental law. For example, you can think of available digital information, an online tool where you can find concept objections. Ruth de Bock told us a lot about that across the street. I am also curious to see how the Minister looks at the effects of the current problems with the legal aid financed. In reply to the questions: citizens with a small wallet depend on the legal aid financed to properly represent their interest in legal proceedings. Then it is very nice that the registry rights are not getting very high, but if you as a citizen cannot bring a lawyer or you cannot get advice in a totally changing world of environmental law, then you are, as it were, quite helpless. Can the Minister indicate whether, in addition to agreements with the local authorities, she would like to use a national communication and implementation strategy aimed at helping citizens find their way and increase their capacity to act? I see Mr. Rietkerk getting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u121	A question for Mrs Kluit when it comes to the involvement of people, to development-oriented or conservation. I would particularly like to draw attention to those who wish to preserve. Where visions are developed in municipal councils, there are no different paths to participation than the current zoning plan, whether you are in favour of development or conservation. It is more complicated where regional environmental services are authorised. How do you see the involvement and the information when it comes to the implementation side of the case? It is often underestimated, but is very important: authorisation, enforcement and supervision. The citizen in the municipality is even further away from that. How does GroenLinks see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u122	Of course, there is a very important point to be made. The environmental services themselves should also have direct contact with citizens to explain why they are doing certain things. They must help citizens to find their way in that system. Is that how I answer the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u123	Yes, then a question along the lines of that. What does that mean, in your opinion, for the 30 environmental services available in the Netherlands? We would like them robust, but what does that mean for those 30 environmental services? They should be connected to the residents of different municipalities for which the environmental service works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u124	For those environmental services, this means that they must at least have people. Capacity is one thing. Much has already been said about separating the various tasks within the environmental service. You should take care of this, because you have, as it were, the advice of the board, you have the authorisation and you also have the enlightening side. You need specific skills for that. This means that the organisation of the environmental services must be organised accordingly and that they must have time and expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u125	Mrs. Kluit has quite a harsh judgment on the government. She uses the word "naïve." Does she know the programme "Getting started with the Environment Act"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u126	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u127	Do you know that it is a programme in which Rijk, municipalities, provinces and water boards have been working for years to test how all kinds of practical casuism would work out in practice with the Environmental Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u128	Yeah, I'm aware of that, but that's not exactly what I'm talking about. The programme "Getting started with the Environment Act" focuses on environmental services, municipalities and executive organisations. My plea is to do something that focuses directly on the citizens. I can make it look a little obvious. In my daily work we have experienced the introduction of a vehicle on the road, the speed pedal, which was not on the bike path and on the lane. There was no widespread communication at the time that there was a bike driving on the lane. These people are then quite badly approached by motorists who thought that suddenly there was a bike riding on the lane. So sometimes as a government, you have to make sure you tell them why you're changing things. As local authorities will be working on this at different rates in the coming years, I do not think it is sufficient, as a matter of principle, for this to take place only at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u129	Finally, I know from my own experience that when local authorities practice in these cases together with the Empire, they also practice how to deal with the citizen. I would just like to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u130	You will continue your speech, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u131	Yes. Then I'll join the DSO. To our surprise, there is no provision in the DSO on which you can see which permits and notifications have been requested in your own neighborhood and which conditions apply. Citizens should themselves draw from the descriptions of the environmental plan which rules that permit must comply with. If you want to defend yourself on the basis of information from Nature & Environment, you have to pick out this information yourself. All this against a background where the period during which a licence becomes irrevocable has become shorter. This seems to us to be a task that citizens are not capable of. Or does the Minister see this differently? I'd like an answer. We would like to hear from the Minister whether there is a plan to build up the information on requests for permits in the development of the DSO so that people can see what is going on in their environment and so that their position is equivalent to that of the initiators. If so, will it undertake to do so and include it in a development plan in such a way as to make this provision available in the shortest possible time? Just because it's on a list doesn't mean it's gonna be there in a year. Then there is the third example. In the Environmental Act, participation is broadly divided in about two ways. Public authorities should include a paragraph of participation in the definition of their spatial plans and proposers should indicate what they have done about participation. When you look at the details of legislation and regulations, the legal content of participation is actually soft. In answering the questions, the Minister himself states that judges should examine existing principles of law. This raises the question as to what the way in which participation is included in the Environment Act actually adds legally to the position of citizens. I move on to the following topic: the role of the city council and the position of citizens. With the regionalisation of the policy, the position of the city council is often under pressure. In addition, more and more public-private cooperation policies are being developed, so the position of the city council very often resembles signs on the cross. The law now before us is threatening to strengthen it. After the introduction of the Environment Act, many rules from the current zoning plans are no longer included in the environmental plan. In replying to the questions, the Minister indicated that this did not affect the legal position of citizens in her view. With fewer rules in the environmental plan, there is less deviation from the environmental plan. We think that is a debatable reasoning. It's a bit à la: if you take away the traffic lights, fewer people drive through red. The question is, of course, whether it will be more secure. It seems to us an illusion that a municipality with a global environmental plan is actually going to work more globally, because a lot of these rules come from rather negative experiences in the past. So they're gonna want to set those rules in a different way. Please comment on how you look at this development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u132	I still have a question about the beginning of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u133	If you use the word "u," second person singular, you're talking to me. If you wish to speak to Mrs Kluit, you must use the third person singularly. And may I ask Mr Otten to take some rest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do that in my enthusiasm rather too quickly. You stated that the policy... GroenLinks' group stated that the policy at the municipality is being organized away to public-private partnerships. What does this mean, then, that local interests must also be anchored locally in environmental law through decision-making in the city council? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u135	I'm not sure I fully understand your question. Can you put it another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u136	Mrs Kluit, too, would like to go through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u137	Sorry, Chairman. I do not think I fully understand Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u138	If you read it at home again in the Acts, you will see that it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u139	I know. I just need to practice, so I'm trying to practice. The core of environmental law is that local authorities place local interests in spatial visions. That is the core of our environmental law: as close as possible to the citizen you are talking about, which GroenLinks is also talking about. You indicated a trend, namely that due to environmental legislation, local government, councils, policies are being organized away, including in public-private partnerships, and that the environmental service would make policy. But the proposition is that local interests in local spatial policy are set up by a city council? How does GroenLinks view that position, against that starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u140	For the sake of clarity, I did not mean regionalisation towards environmental services. I meant, for example, the regionalisation of energy strategies. This is a supermunicipal plan that you often make with several municipalities. Then that plan comes back to the city council. If it's okay, you process it in your environmental vision or in your environmental plan. At that time, a whole process has already been preceded and you are at the end of the trial as a city council. This can be about many regional areas, such as housing visions or fast bike routes. The debate is then different from when a municipality, free of any cooperation in the region, can take independent decisions. I'm not saying it's good or bad. I'm just saying these things pile up on each other. You have to be very alert that this does not mean that a city council only has to sign at the cross, especially since there are often public-private financing structures underneath it. If you pull one block out, there's Jenga again, the whole mess could collapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u141	It is a good thing, I say to Mrs Kluit, that if a bike path runs over a municipal border, there is also a bit of coordination.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u142	Sure. I'm gonna move on. In the end, this also has a significant impact on the position of the judge. The nitrogen crisis and the Urgenda case have led the judges to blame them for their political conduct. Such a complaint was subsequently contradicted by the judge, but such a statement of defence by a judge is, to put it mildly, not very timely. Does the Minister agree with me that laws should be clear in themselves and that the judges should not be placed in a position to explain them? The question is therefore also whether it expects the judge to make a more thorough assessment of the policy rules in order to assess whether there are any significant harm to citizens' rights. My group feels that this is very undesirable, because a thorough judicial review cannot be seen as a substitute for the democratic legitimacy of choices we make. Certainly not, because some parties then call for the judge to act politically, while we are passing legislation that fails to set clear standards. So please respond to the following questions. How can the citizen exercise his right and control the city council when the environmental plans have become global frameworks and the actual normalization in practice shifts from planning rules to non-democratically established licensing frameworks? I come to the timing of the legislative renewal. For GroenLinks, the timing of this huge legislative review is of particular importance, given the challenges we have. The flexible system of the Environment Act is inherent in the fact that the rules for citizens and businesses can be changed gradually. The reason is that it allows you to play faster on current events, but there is also another side to it. The use of new rules and the gradual adaptation of the rules can be experienced as well as the behaviour of a calculating government, especially against the background where the government also has a clear self-interest in a project. I am thinking of a wind farm under the regional energy strategy. I'm thinking of a housing block in green because of the housing crisis. We will not deny that, within the current instruments, however complicated and flawed that may be, the case law is fairly crystallised. It would be undesirable if the introduction of the Environment Act were to lead to additional litigation, because some fundamental legal aspects, such as participation or open standards, still have to be filled in with case law and therefore more and more complex cases are launched. The question is to what extent does the Minister properly assess the risk of all kinds of legal delays. The figures on the current state of nature and the environment show that we really cannot afford a worst case scenario in this case. The 20s of this century are the last decade in which we can achieve results in terms of the two-degree standard in the context of climate or biodiversity in the Netherlands. So there's really something at stake. We would therefore like to see the following questions answered. How does the Minister assess the risk that, for example, the Council of Justice and Valentine Wösten, the man of the PAS, would declare that legal proceedings would take longer and thus stop transitions towards sustainable agriculture, energy supply and housing rather than speeding up? How will the Minister monitor this if the implementation of the Environment Act is a fact and what tools will it have at its disposal if the legal worst case scenario really occurs? I'm going a little faster given the time. We have asked several times how the Minister expects an integral balance to be made at municipal or provincial level. On the basis of which criteria or guidance should this be done? As far as we are concerned, more control and assurance is really needed to achieve a better environment, especially since many tasks are of course wonderful if you put them in an integral parallel, but are not compatible with each other. The question is how the Minister is going to ensure that the final conclusion of the administration is not repeated over and over again in all these integrated considerations at the decentralised level, that this time the economic interests prevail and the balance of use is maintained. What tough safeguards does the Environment Act offer citizens to prevent a deterioration in the current situation, particularly in areas where standards are not threatened? You can also have a decline in your life situation and your quality of life without compromising the standards. What can you do to protect your own environment? Then there is a more fundamental aspect. Does the Environment Act offer sufficient substantive direction to be able to act as a norm? With the interests at stake, the Environment Act should, as far as we are concerned, be a robust form of legislation that provides clarity about the objectives that one seeks. The great irony is of course that GroenLinks is not alone in that. The farmers are on our side here. The climate activists are on our side. So I hope that at some point I will also find the Minister on my side. If it is robust, legislation can be a clear beacon and a robust guiding system for citizens and businesses in times of great transformation, allowing them to anticipate it as well. However, I note that the cabinet has taken a different turn, because it has not become a robust system, but rather a very flexible system, in which plans and standards can adapt very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u143	I see two sides of the GroenLinks spokesperson. On the one hand I hear: give everyone space, counterpower is good, and everything must be possible. At the same time, I hear about a normative government. Mrs Kluit then says: is it not wise that matters are settled nationally, and then it is good and then democracy is good? But once it's local, it's about legal certainty. It is no longer clear to me where GroenLinks stands now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u144	This is about the standards. We no longer set a lot of standards at law level, but we shift them to the level of the AMvB. This also happens at provincial and municipal level. That's what this is about. We believe that standards should simply be set within the legislative framework and not at AMvB level. As far as participation is concerned, if the frameworks are clear, citizens should be given as much space as possible to serve their interests. Is that an answer to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u145	I'm having second thoughts about this. It is "decentral, unless," with the space to set standards at local level, in a certain way. Then GroenLinks talks about counterpower and organizing things. Well, that's all good then. Then there is a question of participation and then suddenly the position is reversed and national standards have to be set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u146	For certain aspects, we also believe that national standards should be set. For example, when it comes to the fragile values, the objectives to be achieved, we believe that this should be laid down at a legal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u147	Mrs. Nooren, finally. No? Mrs Kluit, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u148	Will the Minister give her views on how the flexible instruments of the Environment Act will ensure policy stability so that citizens and businesses can realise their sustainable initiatives? Can the Minister explain how the choice for the AMvB of similar instruments, with which the executive has the primacy, will give sufficient stability? I'm moving on to the E.R. position. The protection of vulnerable values stands or falls with the achieved balance between protection and exploitation. There are doubts at GroenLinks as to whether the current proposals will prevent a shift towards the exploitation side. The project decision instrument will replace a number of existing plans and decisions in the current instruments, such as the route decision and the integration plans. The project decision is intended for complex and far-reaching projects, where the government itself is often an actor, because they want to achieve something, and where citizens can be expected to need additional independent, tested information. It is precisely in these projects that it is important that an additional guarantee, an independent test, is built in. Can the Minister indicate that in an independent review of the EIA, this is linked to the project decision instrument, regardless of the content of the project? If not, can the Minister explain from the point of view of environmental protection why a particular type of project needs to be given more guarantees than the other, and what basis does it have for this? The fact that independent review of the EIA is not an unnecessary luxury has recently been demonstrated by the Commission's annual figures for the EIA. which showed that two thirds of the tested EIAs were in the first instance seriously flawed. This is also in line with the development of the enhanced requirements for the EIA as regards the quality of the EIA and the objectivity of the competent authority. So we've already seen that this is a problem and we're trying to fix it. A related concern is that recent signals show that the EIA instrument is being used significantly less frequently. For example, we need the Commission for the m.e.r. Asked how many applications they have for an independent test for the environmental visions. To my fear, that number can be counted on two hands. The reason for this is that according to the municipalities this concerns global visions. As a result, they do not see any need to produce an environmental impact report. If you then look at the municipal environmental plans, which should have a more concrete level, then you will see that they are not or hardly presented either. The argument then is that it is a pile of old zoning plans with a staple through it. So our question is that this must be secured. Is the Minister aware of these figures on the completed and independently tested EIA? Is she also familiar with Investico's figures on the percentage of plan-MER assessments, which leads to an actual EIA? That is less than 1%. Is the Minister prepared to make the use of the environmental impact assessment mandatory after the introduction of the Environmental Law at the decentralised level in environmental visions, environmental plans and project decisions? Or is it prepared to at least encourage use from the point of view that this is important? Would she also like to monitor how this is going to be done in practice? If so, will she share that with us as First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u149	Perhaps you'd like to finish first, Mrs. Kluit? Your speaking time is actually over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u150	Yes. We would also like to see an independent evaluation. My colleagues will go into that further. I would also like to ask our answer to the question of whether there will be one. Then I'll come to my conclusion. GroenLinks therefore has fundamental questions about the design, timing and implementation of this implementation law. In times that call for large transitions, robust and predictable policies are important to bring people and businesses into the country, so that people can contribute themselves, commit to the task we set ourselves and possibly also serve their interests. Although the basic ideas for the Environment Act were good, as far as we are concerned, 50PLUS has already said something about this. We do not expect the Minister today to respond to our more fundamental objections to the design of the Environment Act, but we do hope that the Minister will make commitments on the elements requested, that she will clarify how she is going to monitor vulnerable interests and whether she is prepared to strengthen the position of citizens. Does it also want to avoid that reports which are relevant to this issue..................................................................................................................................................................................................... Our vision is that only then can we maintain our strong spatial tradition, rather than become like Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u151	Would you like to finish, Mrs. Kluit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u152	Only then will we be able to ensure that we maintain a high quality of life in our busy country, even if it is no longer taken up at national level but at a decentralised level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u153	I hear Mrs Kluit asking a question about the independent environmental impact assessment, which is mainly linked to the plan or the visions that exist, a plan EIA. You mostly had questions about that. That's when I was listening. My question to Mrs Kluit, through the President, is: there may be a lot of EIA projects. Did you get any information about this when GroenLinks was looking for further information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u154	No. As you may know, since the summer we have...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u155	I don't know, Mrs. Kluit, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u156	Sorry, Chairman. As the President may know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u157	As Mr Rietkerk may know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u158	As Mr Rietkerk may know, we have asked a number of times about the development of the EIA, but we are still waiting for the Minister's reply. Investico's dived into it. They know certain things, and they don't know certain things. This was specifically about the assessment of the plan-MER and in the Environmental Act, the plan-MER assessment of course becomes a project-MER assessment, so you can expect this question to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u159	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I call Mr Janssen van de SP. Before that, I would like to return to Mrs Kluit's request to hand over a number of written questions to the Minister during this debate. I note the following. The bill has been prepared in writing in several rounds in committee. That was three. A fourth written deadline has not been requested. It could have been. The Court will then have to grant an exemption, but there is that possibility. The committee then found that the legislative proposal was sufficiently prepared, in writing, to register it for a plenary public hearing to be followed by everyone. It may be that groups consider that certain questions have not been adequately answered during the preparatory phase. I understand. In that case, the political groups will be free to request a third or a fourth round of questions before the plenary debate. The Rules of Procedure provide for this, and this can be done. The President must ask permission from the Chamber for this. The questions can, of course, also be put orally in the plenary debate. It is getting complicated, and I am actually saying this to all the new Members of Parliament before we set a new precedent as political groups in the plenary debate are going to hand over lists of questions which, in their opinion, are not sufficiently answered to a ruler, whether or not through the President. First of all, this is complicated because other groups will not be able to take note of these questions. In addition, it is not clear to the listeners which groups are still putting questions to the directors, while the Chamber has just decided to hold a public debate for everyone to follow. So I can't go along with that. For the next time, I would like to ask you to put questions either in an additional written round or in an oral part of this House. You will also have every opportunity to do so by writing down speaking time so that everyone can follow these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u160	I am new here, so thank you for the explanation. I'll stick to that next time. This has been discussed in committee. I indicated in committee that I did not think that the questions were sufficiently answered, nor that I did not think it was ready for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u161	I understand. That is indeed a point. Then you can always put the questions orally, here behind the speaker's seat, within the speaking time you have set, of course. But it can no longer be written through the President. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this, however much I would like to be interested in you, Mrs Kluit. I hope you can live with this answer. Otherwise, this is something to discuss in the College of Seniors. Of course, you can always do that. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u162	Thank you, Mr President. If I have any time left, I would like to read a few more questions from Mrs Kluit. Mr. Chairman. Thirteen years to write over 3,000 pages, with a role for more than 200 characters: so long it took the French intellectual novelist Marcel Proust to write his masterpiece À la recherche du temps perdu with this size. I can assure you that reads a lot finer than the AMvB's of the Environment Act of the same size. I wonder if there is even someone who has read all the AMvBs, or that the tasks are wisely divided everywhere. I will come back to that later. Marcel Proust is also known for the Proust questionnaire, a list of questions about your personality. From this list you can get to know yourself better. It gives a lot of self-conception. Now I am not going to go through this whole list, but a few questions have been very helpful in my reflection on preparing for today's and tomorrow's debate. Just a few questions I'm gonna light out. What's the biggest mistake you've made? What's your idea of misery? What reform do you most admire? What's your current state of mind? Just a few useful questions from the Proust list to ask yourself if you have to give an opinion on the current bill. I shall return to my speech. Mr. Chairman. I started with a reference to Marcel Proust. There will be more references to persons. Herman Tjeenk Willink, Henk Westbroek, Jan de Wit, Kim Putters, Alex Brenninkmeijer, Reinier van Zutphen, Jules Deelder and also Zwarte Piet I will mention, not necessarily in this order. Mr. Chairman. What time do we currently live in the Netherlands, and in what administrative state of the country will the Environmental Act have to take place if it were to enter into force on 1 January 2021? It cannot have escaped anyone that we are living in an age of confusion, uncertainty and change. Neoliberalism has had its best time in the economy, or as far as I am concerned: worst time, and we come to the conclusion that "everyone for themselves" is not a future-proof model for our society. The nitrogen crisis and the pfas crisis create unrest and uncertainty among farmers, citizens and builders. Municipalities are called the alarm clock because the effects of decentralisation in care have brought them in a heavy organisational and financial way. Everyone governments, businesses and citizens are busy trying to find some clues in these turbulent times. The call that sounds loudest is: stop constantly changing the rules there in The Hague; we are not keeping to it anymore and we are losing our way. A justified appeal, because people and companies need a government that is predictable, consistent and stable. In that time frame, in which everything is moving, the Environment Act must now be introduced: more variables in the mathematical equation, which will thus become more and more difficult to solve. Not more stability, but more instability. Everything that has been made in recent decades by laws, rules and case law recognizable in black and white, is now, with the introduction of the Environmental Law, turned grey again, with all the new uncertainties of that. Reinier van Zutphen, the National Ombudsman, concludes from talks with citizens that they indicate that the government is disappearing from their sight and that people are worried about this. The self-reliance assumed in the Environment Act is an illusion, says the National Ombudsman. The case-law has already indicated, partly because of the PAS concerns, that it is neither able to manage nor finance the expected flow of proceedings. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether she recognizes this image and thus recognises and recognises the risk of further confusion in troubled times. Has it already secured additional funding for the case-law with the Minister for Legal Protection? This is an important point. Mr President, Proust's first question. The answer to "what's your idea of misery?" From the Proust questionnaire, for me, if we don't have a political eye for people who lose their way in the world of rules, who change faster than they can keep track. These people are in a constant state of uncertainty, because they are losing control of their own lives, whether personal or business. That is misery that we must avoid as politics. I shall come back to Mr Dessing's contribution in my own term. It was so busy with the frequency of the interrupting microphone that I thought: I am trying to do it on my own term. I have just taken up the position of the Forum for Democracy in Flevoland. It says: FvD wants to stop the construction of wind farms on land and sunbathing grounds that defile the landscape and cause nuisance. I assume that Mr Dessing and his group recognize that. In relation to these points of view, I would nevertheless like to say to the Forum to look closely at how legal protection under the Environment Act will be reduced, if you still want to deliver on your views there. Easier building applies not only to the things you like, but also to the things you might not like as much. I would like to say again to the Forum for Democracy: do you realise that by making the construction of windmills and solar fields easier, you are giving a strong boost to the implementation of the billions of devouring climate laws, in your words? Fortunately, we will not continue until tomorrow, so you still have time to think about it. Mr President, a step back. How did we get to the point where we speak today about and reflect on the current bill in our First Chamber, the chambre de réflexion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u163	I think it's very good observation from the SP. I would just like to add that you should have taken the provincial programme of Forum van Noord-Holland, because it also includes the construction of wind farms and solar meadows and the cessation of energy transition from the province. As you know, Mr Dessing is also the leader of the Group of the Forum in North Holland. I thought I'd give you a moment, through the chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u164	Mr. Otten, may I first ask you to speak through the chairman? If you're talking about "you," second person singular, that's me, and the third is the speaker. Secondly, may I ask you to limit your interruptions to brief, explanatory questions and not to use them for other statements? You will have your own deadline for this, and you will have fifteen minutes for that tomorrow morning. I now give the floor to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u165	Mr. Chairman. The bill has a long history and has gradually developed into a comprehensive bill in which 26 laws are supposed to be incorporated. It gets easier, that's the motto. I've mentioned the Environment Act before, also administratively, the law of the pink clouds and the skipping bunnies. Everything gets better with the Environment Act, at least, if you can get a lead on it and if you all agree. It will be faster, but under these conditions it will be faster. Let's make a comparison, even from our own experience. Prevention has not reduced the number of serious cases in the youth care sector, which was also an assumption and participation is not going to reduce the number of judicial proceedings. Those are real misconceptions. I've been working on this for a number of years. I have gradually started to feel that in recent years an administrative and legal monster has emerged, perhaps initially with good intentions, but still. The picture that has pushed me more and more is that of the credit crisis: the bonds-packaged bundled mortgages in the subprime segment combined with related complex financial products with quicksand-based assumptions in mathematical valuation formulas. Everyone talked about it, everyone had an opinion about it, everyone was in on it and everyone acted like he or she got it. The opposite turned out to be true and only a few warned. There were irresponsible risks taken and banks had to be saved with public money. What lessons can we draw for the Environment Act from the final report Addressing the credit crisis of the parliamentary committee of inquiry led by Jan de Wit? As far as I'm concerned, the most important lesson is to stay critical and not get carried away in euphoria. An earlier path can also lead to another than the desired goal, or even to a dead end. That is not a disgrace, but it can be a consequence of the changing world. The AMVBs are a lot like the financial products from the credit crisis to me. Everyone talks about it, many pretend but few understand or understand everything. The Environment Act as an administrative credit crisis. There is a warning, but with moderation. How is it that, after the introduction of laws, we are always confronted with the observation that signs of imminent disaster have not been taken seriously enough? The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, the credit crisis, decentralisation in healthcare, recently the Health and Force Act, numerous ICT projects in the government: always there were warning signals. For example, at the PAS, the Council of State, like the Environment Act, issued clear and intrusive warnings. That, I also say to the Democracy Forum, is not a question of overlooking things, as Mr Dessing said, but of actively ignoring them. Mr. Chairman. "It is good to think bigger but do smaller": the heart cry and appeal of former Vice-President of the Council of State Herman Tjeenk Willink in 2018. The Environment Act, however, does the opposite. Again with the Environment Act the government continues to step down. Citizens have to take it back on their own and not everyone can. I have already referred to the fundamental criticism and concerns of the National Ombudsman and I come back to the Digital System Environment Act. Every citizen is supposed to know the law. Stand on it! Of course, this rule of law does not mean that you need to be able to call on the AMvBs, but once you become law you can no longer invoke that you have no knowledge of it. This requires careful implementation. Or, as Herman Tjeenk Willink described it, the quality of the execution determines the credibility of the government. Will citizens and businesses be able to rely on the implementation of the Environment Act? Is the government, both the state and the local authorities, ready? I&D Research conducted research on behalf of the National Administration last autumn among municipal officials; others referred to this as well. As far as I am concerned, the results are alarming and worrying. Not half of the municipal officials indicate that their own municipality is on track to successfully implement the Environment Act. Four months ago! A year earlier, 46% of respondents in a similar study indicated that their own municipality was on track. Four months ago, that was down to 43%. More municipalities are falling behind. The conclusion of that investigation is that there will be no catching up. In fact, as soon as the intended date of entry becomes clear what is still to be done, the percentage may go down sharply, all the more so because municipalities currently have other things on their mind with the financial concerns surrounding the social domain. How does the Minister feel about this now? In the words of Herman Tjeenk Willink, how does she see the credibility of the government if implementation were to fall short of quality? Credibility comes like faith on foot and goes on horseback. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. I would also like the Minister to answer the question as to how many municipalities have already included in their budget for the management costs of the Digital System Environment Act by 2020. Do local authorities know that they will be responsible for roughly 80% of the costs from the start of the management phase: 80% structural? I would like an answer from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u166	Mr President, through you I have a question for the SP delegate. He's making a very good comparison to the credit crisis. There were also all kinds of things going on for triple-A rated. Everyone thought it couldn't hurt. Well, we've seen how that turned out and how the government then pumped up public debt enormously. We've only recently regained control of it. My question, through the chairman, is what your statement is. The PAS, the credit crisis, the surcharge system and so on, I can go on for a while. How do you and your party believe that these things are going through this Chamber all the time? Explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u167	An easy answer is that we are not in the government. That's how all this can happen. I referred to the more complicated answer: signals are being ignored over and over again. There were indeed signals on all these points. I have just mentioned a number of them. There were signals, but they are not overlooked; no, they are ignored. So that's the point: taking signals seriously. The Council of State had extensively warned about the PAS. Others had warned about the credit crisis. We see it over and over and over again. Let's take these signals seriously. I shall return to my conclusions on this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u168	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u169	I have already mentioned the Digital System Environment Act, the cork on which the Environment Act floats, hope and fear in one. "The largest ICT project ever in the government" was once proudly mentioned by former Minister Schultz van Haegen in an administrative consultation. With that remark, many of the people present spontaneously shook the heart. And rightly so, in 2017, when the BIT report produced harsh conclusions: too complicated, the added value of extra complexity has not been sufficiently demonstrated and the costs are going to be much higher than budgeted. After that, in my opinion, the objective pursued by the DSO has become out of sight and has become detached from the initial objective. It was that with a click on the map it would become clear which environmental rules apply in that place. That's what's falling behind. Administratively, the agreement has been made between governments which roughly means that the government pays the development costs and that the other governments pay the management costs. But that is of course ICT 1.0, perhaps even 0.1, because a project has never been developed and then there is a lot of fuss about what belongs to development and what belongs to management. I have just referred to the administrative burden of the municipalities. Then there was a crucial moment in the development of the DSO, because at that time the government unilaterally chose to put a financial cap on development costs: more than this development should not cost the government; that was the message at that time. So not the ambition, the optimal facilitation of the users, but the finances have become leading since then. The fact that the other governments then responded to an open-ended financing of their part is perfectly understandable, but in the whole of all of this, of course, this has been an undesirable turn of events. From that moment on, the user has come to stand remotely. The users of the often inscrutable AMvBs are put at a disadvantage. The functionality loses it from the finances, with citizens and businesses as direct objects. We are still in that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u170	I have two questions. Of course, you've been at those meetings. What is your estimate of the order size of what it should have cost to get it to the desired level? And how could you arrange that now? Do you have to think of a program in which you get a commitment to keep asking for money or do you have to have a certain amount and get security?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u171	I think there is roughly 50 million deficit at the moment. I haven't been there since June, but I think there's a deficit of about 50 million. I am going to ask the Minister for a commitment on this point. Perhaps that is the short answer to Mrs Kluit's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u172	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u173	We are still in that situation. In terms of the administrative agreement, social added value only occurs in scenario 3. However, the trend towards scenario 3 has gone out of the picture because the government has not freed up the necessary finances. That's still a dot somewhere on the horizon, but there's no concrete path or timeline there. The funding has not yet been settled. Even now, when dealing with the law of introduction in the First Chamber, there is still no idea that the Empire will comply with its commitments to develop the necessary scenario 3 for the user, or a commitment to do so. The Minister can put an end to this uncertainty by saying in this treatment that the government is committed to guaranteeing the transition to scenario 3. Mr. Chairman. In addition, however, it is of course quite unsatisfactory and from the point of view of care, it is simply undesirable that the following BIT advice on the follow-up and progress of the 2017 BIT report will only be available after the First Chamber is already deemed to have agreed to the introduction law. This is an uncertain leap in the deepest sense, given the many national ICT projects that were previously unachievable and unmanageable. Everyone knows the examples: Tax Administration, UWV, Defense, Justice and Home Affairs less than a year ago, very recently the NVWA, the Dutch Food and War Authority, the Inspect project. The BIT had already warned in 2017, but the project was continued unabated. The core of the story: the solution that has been developed is so complex that the costs of management and maintenance arise. That must sound familiar to everyone with the Environment Act in their head. There are too many similarities to ignore, I also say in the direction of Mr Otten. Nevertheless, the First Chamber is asked to assess the implementation of the Environmental Act, a number of months before a crucial BIT report appears on the state of play and prospects of the Digital System Environment Act. After all, that would come in April? Why does the Minister not want to wait until April in order to avoid having to take similar steps as the Minister of LNV, who pulled the plug last year from the NVWA inspection project, because it became clear that the budget of 95 million would be exceeded by tens of millions? The Minister of LNV accordingly decided on a period of rethinking. That BIT report, two years after the first report on implementation, proved crucial. This Minister now has the opportunity to stay ahead of that period of reflection and to include such a period in advance, pending the BIT report in April. Is the Minister, learning from the experiences of her colleague from LNV, prepared to do so, is my question to her? A simple yes or no would suffice. Mr. Chairman. Alex Brenninkmeijer, the former National Ombudsman, describes in his book Morel leadership the need for an effective interface to ensure trust. He apologizes for that word, and so do I, in committee. He says that the whole set of rules, procedures, protocols and budgets creates a system world that can cause tension and friction in connection with the living world of individual people. He therefore called for an interface between complex computer systems and meat and blood users to be developed, in analogy with the interface between the system world of government organisations and people. This interface should consist of four elements: personal contact, taking people seriously, treating people with respect and giving people trust. A well-developed DSO can play an important role in this, combined with a possibility of personal contact. An insufficiently developed and reliable DSO will lead to increased distrust and loss of credibility of the government, in line with what Herman Tjeenk Willink said about this, to which I referred earlier. Kim Putters also calls attention to this in his book Veenbrand. He even called for a stronger anchoring of citizens' information rights. Perhaps the right of citizens and businesses to a sufficiently developed and always up-to-date DSO should be incorporated into the law. Would the Minister care to reflect on that? Where people are increasingly being asked to participate, as in the Environment Act, more and more people are getting lost and they don't know where they should be at, says Kim Putters. Well-informed and educated people manage to cope, but that certainly doesn't apply to everyone, perhaps even to most. He draws attention to the fact that the most vulnerable people have the smallest networks and do not find their way. This leads to many policies being ineffective, he says. That is why I repeat my previous question to the Minister: is the DSO being developed, are the finances guaranteed and when will it be finished? Of course, as First Chamber members, we have also been able to take note of the pilots that are being carried out. These are nice examples, such as rooftops and hairdressing permits, but also no more than that. The current DSO is still a long way from the robust cork that citizens and businesses should be able to drive on within the Environment Act. At the moment, the DSO is no more than "a piece of scrap metal with a thin layer of chrome" for the citizens and businesses, as described by Henk Westbroek in the song Friendship. I have two more specific questions on issues which are close to my heart and which I have frequently asked for in another position. The first is on financial security for high-risk companies; the Minister will recognize it. Is there going to be a generic obligation for SEVESO companies to provide financial security? Is the Minister going to make this mandatory for all companies, or is it going to be the unworkable clause that we have warned against, whereby each individual competent authority will decide whether to provide financial security for a company? Random is then lurking. I would like to see a clear response from the Minister, who will give us clarity. My second specific question concerns the enforceable revision permit. The revision licence that has now been issued is no more than an automatic aggregation of existing licences. Is it correct, I would ask the Minister, that this automatic revision permit should not include any further modified requirements for the use of the best available techniques, for example? In the case of a revision permit with additional requirements, the company would have to demonstrate why it could not meet the bbt requirements imposed. It's a matter of proof. Now, at least as I read it, the situation is created in the Environment Act that the competent authority must argue why and at what points a strengthened bbt can be applied by the company. This costs a great deal of knowledge and a great deal of human strength, but above all it often encounters insurmountable problems, because the company will not want to provide all the necessary information with the use of trade secrets, so I can tell you from experience. So, if it really is, it is a missed opportunity, also given the challenges that lie ahead for the reduction of nitrogen and the clean air agreement. My question to the Minister is whether I see this correctly. I hope not, by the way. And if so, why was it chosen? Why not let the norm be? But if it turns out to be different, I would very much like to correct myself on this point. Mr. Chairman. I come carefully to a summary of my speech. It is up to us in the First Chamber to determine, after reflection and consideration, whether the introduction of the Environment Act as of 1 January 2021 is what the social interest is most served by. Once introduced, the Environmental Law is a law that has all the characteristics of "too big to fail." And if it doesn't work, we're stuck with it, because 26 other laws have disappeared, with a money-consuming ICT project linked to it. You haven't heard me ask a lot of questions about the technique of the law. Colleagues have done so, and we will do so. But a very important point for me is whether the law is enforceable and enforceable; one of the key points that the First Chamber should consider. And I have to make a positive or negative assessment of this bill from myself, and then in advice to my group. For me, the three questions in the Proust questionnaire are discussed again. The first question is: what reform do you most admire? Could the Environmental Law, as a reform of environmental law, qualify as the most admired reform? My answer is no. There is still too much unclear, too much unfinished and too much uncertain. The second question is, what is your current state of mind? My feeling tells me that as a First Chamber we are being asked to agree to the law of introduction. In too many crucial parts, we are asked to trust that everything will be all right. In particular, there is still a great deal to be seen in terms of feasibility and the quality of implementation. And it is crucial for the implementation of DSO cannot be assessed by us at this time in anticipation of the BIT report, and that makes me in my role as co-legislator that I cannot test the feasibility. Which means I can't help but be very vigilant. Third question: what is the biggest mistake you've made? What I want to avoid is that, next time I answer this question, I have to say that my biggest mistake was to agree to the introduction and implementation of a law that was not ready for it. And I'm not saying that out of fear, because as a person and driver I'm used to taking a step forward in difficult situations rather than backwards. I note, to a large extent, that from the many discussions I have had on the Environment Act and this Introduction Act, I see a very different picture than in the letters we have received from the Minister on progress and the outlined administrative unit. I also recognize that other image from my own experience, when I took part in the talks between the governments. The picture I'm getting from the many conversations is that no one wants the blackbird for further delay or adjustments. And that is, I say from my own experience, not recently, but it has been going on for a long time. No one, except the minister said so to me, seems to want it right now, no matter what the letters say. Mr. Chairman. The lock on the door for the summer of the Royal Decree, which is screened a lot, is really not enough for me, if I look at everything that is playing at the moment. That lock is too easy to crack. I look forward to the Minister's reply to my questions and the further debate. I am not closing my speech because I see Mr Rietkerk standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u174	If you can conclude, Mr Rietkerk will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u175	I would like to conclude with a short two-line poem by Jules Deelder. The title of the poem is Universe, but it might as well have been called Environmental Law. The poem reads as follows: "The farther one looked, the bigger it seemed."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u176	I have another question for Mr Janssen when it comes to the world from which he comes, the administrative world, which I have also been active in for a number of years. It's not just about that world, because sometimes it seems to be two worlds, even though it is one world. As political groups, we have had rounds of questions where we have dealt with many points. In this context, I also mention the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the IPO that you have also been part of so that you also know how it works, in the sense that it is always very sharp. We haven't received signals once, but several times. SMEs-Netherlands and VNO-NCW called on us to get started, also with critical comments, of course. How does the SP fraction react to that world? Because we have them in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u177	That world is in writing, that's right, but I've just explained that from my conversation I get a different picture than what the consensus letters that were sent mean. So I got a different picture for myself than the beautiful notes we got. In fact, I think, from my experience in the Rotterdam Rijnmond area, that there are a lot of large companies that do not want less clarity and fewer rules; they simply prefer a government that lays down clear rules, is consistent and reliable and does not change the rules every year. So, yeah, I read the notes. For this debate, I have received neither a letter from the VNG nor a letter from the IPO, but only from VNO-NCW which say: we are going to work. Fine, that's fine, at least I got a different picture from the administrative feedbacks I've had.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u178	My final question is about the ten national exemplary projects that provinces, municipalities and water boards have been working on and in which the idea of the Environment Act has been tested not for a year but for ten years. This has also been highlighted by citizens and governments: now with a project you have 20 to 160 permits, I no longer see the forest through the trees, come up with clear and decisive rules so that speed can be achieved in the interests of a number of developments. How do you view that as a SP fraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u179	These are fine examples that you mention, but replacing rules with prior participation does not necessarily speed up. More and more consideration points are being added, such as sustainability, all of which need to be taken into account. I have no judgment on that. However, I note that this is going to produce something different from the speed that may have emerged in the projects. Yes, people are tired of it, but people also want clearer rules and don't want to be referred ten times, but that doesn't solve this Environment Act in our opinion. One of the issues on which we are already being questioned when it comes to implementation concerns the compensation arrangements for the Mining Act that are currently under discussion. People are now getting compensation for 2% of their income, which we consider could be further reduced to 4%. There's a lot of resistance to that right now. That's the execution. As you go further into the execution, the resistance will also increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u180	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs Klip-Martin on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u181	Thank you, Mr President. My speech is as follows. I shall begin with a very brief remark in advance, followed by a sketch in five points of the current state of affairs of the Environmental Law Playfield with a few questions linked to it. Finally, I focus the contribution of the VVD group on some of the remaining points. You have already heard that we have tried to reconcile a number of issues with a number of groups. This means that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the comments made by the Christian Union Group on the DSO. Our questions relate to an important part, not only, the system of supporting residents, businesses and governments and the implementation of the huge amount of monitoring data. Mr. Chairman. I start by mentioning that in daily life I am the dike count of Waterschap Vallei and Veluwe. That's one of the 21 waterboards in our country. The water boards as one of the local authorities have to make the entire environmental justice system and, through their umbrella organisation, the Union of Water Councils and VNG and IPO sit at the table with the Empire. I am committed to saying that I am not involved in any conversation or negotiation, and I have never been involved in this area. Mr. Chairman. As far as the Environmental Law Playfield is concerned, I would like to highlight five points. First of all... For centuries, the government has been extremely reluctant about the spatial design of our country. Her involvement in the Dutch landscape was marginal until the 19th century. After that, however, the role of the government grew rapidly, to take a high flight in the 20th century. This is not surprising in a delta which is 60% floodable and where population and activity grew rapidly in the course of the 20th century. Around the beginning of this century we made the transition from a fairly centralist approach to the Vinex neighbourhoods, for example, to a more decentralised approach to spatial development, with the Environment Act as its most recent exponent. To be able to live together in that increasingly densely populated delta as Dutch people, a fine web of laws and regulations has emerged in the areas of space, housing, infrastructure, the environment, nature and water. Together with a very individualised society, we are now stuck in our own regulations, with dozens of laws and hundreds of regulations. As a result, the overall system of environmental law has become very unclear and inflexible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u182	Can you describe what "absolutely jammed" means when it comes to the spatial domain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u183	The combination of spatial domain with living, environment, nature, water, the whole rieddel we know, means that, for example, the environment in six different places was found in different legislation. That means you don't find anything about that in one place. That's still true. We haven't passed the law yet. But almost the same subject is in many different places scattered across the 26 laws, which we are now going to unite together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u184	That might be more insightful, but that doesn't mean that the Netherlands hasn't gotten stuck in space yet, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u185	It is not about the spatial crash of the Netherlands, it is about the spatial crash of our decision-making on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u186	Last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u187	Then what are you basing that on? I see municipalities making zoning plans all the time, I see new projects being developed, wind farms appearing, so things are happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u188	I notice that you call wind farms very often. I thought you were from GroenLinks and would be very happy about that, but in the right place, I understand. No, I didn't. Of course it is not that nothing is happening in our country anymore, fortunately not. But as a government, it is your responsibility in our view to constantly improve your legislation. There are parties, including in this Chamber, who are convinced that the legislation now before us, combined with a number of strong framework conditions, can achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u189	I have a question about the complexity that it was just about, with all these different laws. I do not think there is an ordinary citizen who is currently applying for 26 environmental laws. You're gonna be seeing a lawyer very soon, and that's actually my question. In a piece in the Dutch Juristenblad, specialists in this field say: as people who work with it, this is for us a clear landscape in which we can find our way. So they're saying that it's all bullshit what's being said. It is a clear landscape and it actually becomes less clear. I'd like a response from the VVD to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u190	We have read incredibly much like you and everyone else, but not everyone says it makes things more unclear. You're quoting a number of people. There are also a lot of other people to quote who assume that this legislation will improve. Of course it's a learning process. I shall come back to that in the course of my speech. It is not the case that at the time that law enters into force the Valhalla was created. Of course, that's a process of practicing and learning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u191	That was my question or not my comment. I was talking about Mr Dessing's Jenga kit. I understand that Mrs Klip said that it is necessary to do so because it is not clear. The people who work with it say: it's not out of control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u192	I come later in my speech to a quote from one of the aldermen in our country who do indicate that they are in serious need of this new legislation, precisely because they are currently unable to meet the questions that society is asking them in these areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u193	I have a question for Mrs. Klip. This legislation comes mainly from the VVD, if I am not mistaken by Mrs Schultz Verhagen, the former Minister for Infrastructure. I've read a lot about this. I also refer to the issue of the home attorney of the Forum for Democracy, who says that the sectoral classification works much better than the integrated classification that is currently being chosen. Can you explain to me exactly what problem the VVD thinks this is the solution? I haven't been able to find it after studying it forever. Please explain this to me in a convincing way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u194	For the Acts: it was Minister Schultz Van Haegen. Go ahead, Mrs. Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u195	Perhaps Mr Otten is somewhat impatient. Just to answer that question, I signed in for 25 minutes. Perhaps the President would agree with me saying to Mr Otten that I am doing so through my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u196	If, according to the VVD, the benefits are so obvious, Mrs Klip can explain that briefly, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u197	Mr Otten interrupts me when I point out that many different parties in the country are pointing out the current accumulation of these 26 laws, a lot of AMvBs and regulations, in a society that is much more individualised and that is asking many more diverse questions. At some point, you have to change your legislation on that. It is very often the case that legislation is lagging behind the wishes of society. This is a good example of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u198	I suggest that we give Mrs Klip a chance to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u199	I was in the sense that the overall system of environmental law is unclear and has become inflexible and, moreover, prevents a more innovative and initiative-based approach to spatial planning. To sum up, in our view, we really had to do something and we still have to do it. For this reason, Mr Otten already said that former Minister Schultz Van Haegen presented in 2011 on behalf of the then government, in which PvdA and VVD were represented, her proposal for a new environmental law, adapted to today's wishes and social and also climatic developments, setting out a number of principles that we all know by now. On behalf of the VVD I put them something different from the previous speakers. First of all, more coherence in the physical environment policy with fewer rules and more scope for the initiative of citizens and businesses and for local tailor-made work with a key role for municipalities. Clear and predictable environmental law, easier to use. See what's possible to set clear rules in there. So from "no, unless" to "yes, if." In other words, to speak to Mrs Schultz Van Haegen: protecting is not freezing. With an explicit emphasis on the balance between exploiting and protecting, with safety and health as key benchmarks and the awareness that mutual trust is essential for this decision-making. The key question is, of course, whether the present introduction law will contribute to achieving these objectives. The VVD Group believes that this question can be answered in the affirmative, taking into account a number of robust conditions. That brings me to point two. This is a mega-system review which was devised at the drawing table on the basis of problems experienced in practice. Since we do not opt for a North Korean rollout in our country, an organic approach has been deliberately launched. The legislative development takes place gradually between 2012 and 2021, as well as the development of the Digital System of Environmental Law between 2015 and 2024 and learning to work with the new core instruments between 2015 and 2029. Start step by step, practice and experiment small-scale, and develop and expand from there. In short, "work in progress." The independent Integral Advisory Committee Environment Act also stresses that the transition to the Environment Act is a trajectory and that therefore the focus should be much less at the time of entry into force and more at the trajectory as a whole. A lot of information is now available via websites and social media and is shared through the programme "Getting started with the Environmental Act" which has just been mentioned by Mrs Moonen, a lot of information and activities, practical help, tool kits and practice options are organised. In addition, the introduction of the DSO is accompanied by a migration team, a helpdesk, regional managers, an inter-administrative acceptance team and an online developer portal. And then I'm not complete. In short, this has really been considered. The dynamics of the system call for cooperation and continuous consultation in the gradual transition from old to new. This gradual transition can also bring benefits, as lagging municipalities can learn from their leading fellow governments. The members of the VVD Group have confidence in this approach and do not agree with the comments made by some that this system review would go too quickly. After all, the route runs from 2012 to 2029. Nor do the members of my group share the view of some that so far speed would be at the expense of care. On the other hand, we also note that the timetable until 1 January 2021 is critical and that there should be no more delays. In mid-year the joint authorities will take stock of the situation and the final decision to align the implementation will be taken, followed by the veil of the relevant KB in both chambers. The benchmarks established by the Joint Authorities concern, in summary, a fair degree of legislative stability, compliance with the minimum requirements of implementation progress in the competent authorities and sufficient progress in the DSO. We ask the Minister whether this is still the hard conditions for her as well. The fact that this means that there is a process development here also means that we have to accept that mistakes will be made in the coming years, that things will not go wrong unintentionally and that some regulations in practice are not really feasible, despite all the practice programmes of the past period. Of course, this must be avoided as much as possible, but it will not be to be avoided. So it is best to describe the introduction of the Environment Act as a learning process. For this reason, monitoring and a well-designed system of implementation of the lessons have an extremely important role to play. I shall come back to that in a little more detail. There will also be differences in ambitions and pace between municipalities. That is already the case. The role of the city council is important here. After all, the level of ambition to be used is the result of administrative courage and political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u200	Mrs. Kluit, please go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u201	Maybe Mrs. Klip can answer the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u202	My time is running out. I thought it was going too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u203	That's my fault. I'll give you an extra minute. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u204	Everyone understands that you have to practice in practice. The Binckhorst in The Hague is an example of this, as is my own city, with a rule-free zoning plan, where instead of housing, a distribution centre ended up. Experimenting does have consequences and these consequences can also be very long-term. What would you like to do with pilots, projects and the first serious things that we do after the introduction of the Environment Act that do not run as we like? The Binckhorst is home to 5,000 people who have no school in their neighborhood, no physiotherapy, no bike sheds. Do you have any ideas about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u205	You started so well, but now you're going to say "you" to Mrs. Klip again. That's what you're saying to me. That's okay. You're gonna be fine. Mrs. Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u206	What I am saying here and what I am going to say twice in my speech is that the city council really has a crucial role to play. Of course, this is not just the case in the new system. When I look through my eye hairs at the contributions of all previous speakers, it seems as if the whole world is really being turned around and whether there are already a lot of powers in municipal councils on the basis of current legislation. Even now, there is a great deal of alertness, knowledge, and I have just said that the administrative courage of municipal councils is being asked to do something on the basis of the current legislation. Now there are more decision-making freedoms for municipalities when this legislation is shifted. This increases the responsibility for municipal councils. Once again, I shall return to that in a moment, a little further in my speech. At the end of my speech, I still come up with what you do when things really go wrong. What do you do with everything you come across during that monitoring? My group does not think that you should immediately fix any mistake. Of course, if anything goes wrong, we have to deal with it. But at a slightly higher level of abstraction, we have to try to look at what's coming out of all these monitoring data, so that we can also refine the legislation rationally. If we do not do that, we will be back to square one in a number of years and the starting position with which the previous cabinet started this legislation, namely that it was an accumulation of all decisions and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u207	I can go a long way with what you're saying, but my question was actually what we're doing in places where things aren't going well. That's where people live in a few minutes. What happens to these people? How can we help them put that right? The city council can only do little about it if there is a Sligro in a place where a school should have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u208	You can't just tear down the Sligro again. I understand. But again, I think there's an important responsibility at city council. I do not have a direct answer to it either, but I also think it is too risky to draw conclusions at very occasional level, for example now with the Binckhorst, whose question is whether it has really failed. I think you should give things more time. That is also what the independent advisory committee says: give the law time to get really crystallized. Again, of course you have to avoid mistakes, but I think it's too easy to go straight to a solution. Then we do the law and the philosophy behind the present law no justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u209	I fully agree with Mrs Klip that there is a great deal going on in the municipality, that municipal responsibility is increasing, that there are more freedoms and that this route is going to take a lot of time. My question is whether Mrs Klip agrees with me that it would be good, if only for us here in the First Chamber when we have to give the green light again or not, that we know how all these municipalities, especially the smaller municipalities, look at that project.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u210	I get the impression that Mr Nicolaï is asking for some kind of extra information round to know how small communities look at that. I also have a question about the survey that has been carried out. Other speakers have already said something about this. As a committee, we indicated that we were sufficiently informed to have this debate now. I just heard the chairman say it. So I think I can speak on behalf of my group when I say that we are obviously interested in progress, but I would not like to add an additional round of information before we take decisions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u211	Mr Nicolaï, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u212	I have one further comment to make. I asked the Minister whether the government would be prepared to put the following question in writing to all the municipalities in the near future. Will they be willing and able to realize the major transition? They will be informed in detail in the letter of the tasks expected of them in this area in the coming years. My question is whether that is not a very ordinary question. And why wouldn't the Minister be able to answer that question with "yes"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u213	I do not assume that Mr Nicolaï expects me to reply on behalf of the Minister. He seems extraordinary enough to me. I do not think, which is actually a different subject and has already been dealt with several times in the House of Representatives, that postponement will be the panacea that makes everything go well all of a sudden. Of course, we must proceed responsibly to the introduction of the law. That's where you'll find me by your side. But only delay and more questions... The view of my group is that we have now received sufficient information, the thousands of pages from a number of previous speakers, so that at least now, prudently, we can take a decision on the Introduction Act. Again, the KB is another decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u214	Mr Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u215	I have a comment on the last point. We are not going to ask that question and we are going to appoint a committee again, and so on. My point is that, if we agree to this law, the Empire will introduce a law, which Mrs Klip herself says the municipalities will have to do in due course. My question is whether the Empire has been informed about the position of the municipalities, whether they know exactly what they are going to do, what the package is, and how they feel about it? That's my question. My question to Mrs Klip is whether the VVD considers that a fair question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u216	Mrs Klip, and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u217	To answer Mr. Nicolaï; I find it an interesting question. On the other hand, however, the VNG, together with the IPO and the Union of Water Councils, has been sitting at the Minister's table for years. That's the minister's party. The VNG is a large, professional organization. He has an opinion not only about Amsterdam, but also about Applescha. I hear just next to me that Applescha is not a municipality. That's possible, because the reclassifications are swarming over each other. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna start a rule back. Would you have given me an extra minute, Mr. Chairman? I can talk for free for a minute now, thank you very much. Differences between municipalities will occur in ambition and pace. I told you. That is already the case. The role of the city council is important here. The level of ambition that needs to be applied is, after all, the result of administrative courage and political choices, as well as of knowledge, skills and the necessary competences of management and civil servants. Here, the government and umbrella organisations have an important role to play through knowledge programmes, which in our view should not stop as of 1 January 2021. The Minister has indicated that he shares this view. How does she see this in practice? After all, the inter-administrative programme Getting started with the Environment Act runs until about mid 2021. In other words, where is the knowledge of the current civil servants at BZK, who at some point are asking when another job will be done? In its reply, the government states that support will continue to be provided by the domes and the Empire. This is also a crucial aspect for the members of the VVD Group. How is this going to be organized and secured? What criteria will be used for continuing or phasing out this support? We ask the Minister about the reasoning on this point for the future and where and how these agreements are or are being made. The success of the Environment Act depends not only on compressed and recast regulations. The main success factor will lie in a different way of working, within individual governments, between governments and, perhaps most importantly, of governments with their own inhabitants. That is not the case overnight. In short, all the actors involved, including the Empire, themselves largely determine the success of the new Environment Act. This is certainly not noncommittal. The members of my group agree with the words of the Leiden alderman, Fleur Spijker, who was invited to our expert meeting on 15 October. It clearly insisted on the continuation and pace of the introduction law and the DSO included therein. It is precisely this pressure on the boiler and the preservation of momentum that, according to her, provide the inventive search after and implement improvements. Or as a spatial consulting firm put it: "Maybe we need to clumsy now and then, but the ice will grow harder when we can get the weak spots in the picture and give focused attention." The VNG wholeheartedly supports this conviction, as does the two other umbrella organisations and, for example, the joint environmental services. I refer to the round table held on 11 December last in the House of Representatives, in which these organisations express their explicit support, of course I repeat the............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That brings me to our third point. The Environmental Law is not an end in itself, but a necessary means of shaping the many desirable developments with spatial implications at the present time, cleverly combined and with a clear vision of the future. Just think of the necessary integration of regional adaptation scenarios, environmental agendas and regional energy strategies. For example, read the recent report The sum of parts of the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure. The local authorities formulate it as follows, and I quote Mrs Grijsen, Alderman of Deventer, spokesperson on behalf of the VNG at that round table on 11 December last year: "Market parties and residents come up with initiatives and questions that do not fit in with the current sectoral model of government. There is a need for the possibility of an integral consideration and for clarity on what can or cannot be done at once. Without Environmental Law, we are not going to achieve the desired social goals. We therefore have a great interest in the introduction." And a little later, this Mrs Grey says: "And Rich, let go of it in confidence!" Mr. Chairman. My fourth point is that a lot is coming towards municipalities, and the VVD Group is well aware of this, but these developments have been made much earlier in terms of the physical domain. There are plenty of examples of this, but as a recent example I mention the Wabo, the General Environmental Law Act, which was introduced in 2010. In addition, municipalities have been presenting themselves as "the first government" for about 15 years, which is closest to their inhabitants. The members of the VVD Group support that vision and conviction. But, noblesse oblige: as a municipality, you have to set yourself up in this way, with a serviceable and open attitude towards your inhabitants! Here too, the role of the city council must not be underestimated and local democracy must really do its job. A lot of municipalities are like that. The recent survey with municipalities reveals a somewhat unclear picture of how far municipalities are actually going with their preparations for the Ow. Failure to respond to a survey does not mean that you are not working on it, but very clearly the results were not. My question to the Minister is: 'I have heard this question put more often 'if there is now a little more clarity about the level of preparation in most municipalities. That brings me to the point of municipal finances. For this purpose, the Financial Dialogue model has been developed between decentralised partners and the Empire, with the main question being: is there a balanced relationship between investment in and benefits of the new system? The deal is to take stock for the first time in 2023. The Minister has already said something about this in the further reply, but the members of the VVD Group are asking the Minister to reflect on this, especially in the light of the domes' remark that, in the event of a possible imbalance, the Minister should be prepared to provide more money. Mr President, fifth. The independent Integral Advisory Committee Environment Act gives the government a good report figure. The proposed legislative system can work as it is intended. It is, in other words, feasible and effective. It advocates a number of issues, to which the Minister responds. A single point remains open. I quote: 'Accept errors, as well as differences in ambition and tempo between municipalities'. What is the Minister's position on that last point, i.e. the tempo differences, possibly a limit? And how can the Empire or, more likely, the province increase the pressure on these municipalities? "In keeping the system in place (e.g. adaptation of rules as a result of policy changes) work towards the administrative hygiene of keeping the societal goals in mind, desired improvements and administrative core tools." In a response, the Minister indicated that he would discuss this with other departments. Then how could you ensure this at much less addressed ministries? I will come back to that in a moment. We would like to hear the Minister's response to these two points. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third and final part of my contribution in the first term. I begin by noting that, over the past period, incredibly much information has been provided to the spokesperson's Environment Act of this Chamber, through expert meetings, official briefings, technical briefings, written questions rounds and oral consultations. We thank the government and the many officials involved once again for their detailed explanations, presentations and information. Which brings me to the last block, the DSO; I told you so. The DSO-LV is basically an outsourcing of an IT solution made by and for governments. The standard and information models for validating and publishing Environmental Decrees, the famous STOP and TPOD standards we encounter in the texts, should be stable in time. In addition, the continuity and quality of the service are essential. The local authorities are heavily dependent on national parties, namely the Ministry of the Interior, the Land Registry and the Rijkswaterstaat, which will take over strategic, tactical and operational management respectively. What agreements, the VVD Group wonders, are being made in connection with the continuity of service for the purposes of malfunctions, interruptions and the loss or mutilation of data? When the upcoming Act on Modernisation of Electronic Administrative Traffic enters into force, possibly on 1 January 2021, the risk of a malfunction is passed on to the local authorities according to our information. But these local authorities have no vision or control over the management, which is in the hands of the Ministry of the Interior, the Land Registry and the Rijkswaterstaat. How does the government view necessary agreements on this point? Our second and final question with regard to the DSO concerns the ICT Examination Office, the BIT. This will continue as an independent advisory body as from 1 January 2021 and will be given a permanent position. How does the government view the role of BIT from its new position in relation to the DSO, regardless of the assignment for the development of the DSO that has already been given? Which brings me to participation, Mr. Chairman. After all, the new legislation introduces participation; we have talked about it many times here, even this evening. The more far-reaching the decision, for example on the environmental plan, the more intensive the participation path should be. Support will be provided through the Democracy in Action programme, through a toolkit and directly through local or regional government. Participation is not equal to the right to get what you want, but is crucial in the new system. Nor is it a substitute for legal protection. Notification and obligation to state reasons for participation are guaranteed. The Environment Act does not impose any substantive requirements on the exact manner in which participation should take place. Unlike a number of previous speakers, the VVD is very much in favour of this. This affects one of the cores of the law: space and content customization at local level. This includes the possibility for the city council, including through a corresponding amendment to the Municipal Law, to establish criteria which must satisfy participation possibilities, but this also includes the explicit responsibility of the city council to monitor a good quality of participation as well; Mrs Moonen said that. After all, I am quoting Mrs Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit-Kluit. The VVD agrees. But again, that also brings with it a great responsibility for that democratically elected city council. The government states, inter alia, in the note on the report, in Question 110, that it intends to explain the participation process to a broad public in an accessible and understandable manner. Shortly before that, one question rather, in question 109, the government indicated that it was not going to opt for a national information campaign, but for a communication toolkit for local authorities. That creates confusion. My group would like an explanation. A combination of both seems very desirable to us. Can the Minister undertake to present, in the short term, a communication plan that will accompany the introduction of the Environment Act for a long time? I think that is in line with Mrs Nooren's comments. Then my final point, the monitoring. The Environment Act provides that the law is to be evaluated every five years, for the first time in 2026, on effectiveness and effects in practice. Will, for example, the balance between exploiting and protecting continue to be maintained? The tailor-made options will also be monitored. In addition, it looks at the performance and cooperation of the various authorities, the desired internal cultural change among governments, the adequacy of implementation practice and, for example, the possible additional workload for the judiciary. The implementation of the law is also monitored through the half-yearly implementation monitor. In addition, a transition team controls any necessary changes in regulation, digital services and national and decentralised services. In addition, the PBL will monitor actual content, development, preferably improvement of the quality of the physical environment, at least once every four years, for example in terms of air and water quality, noise and nature. The DSO has its own zero measurement, gateway review, BIT advice regarding the development and half-yearly monitoring research on the progress of implementation and the process of connecting, filling and practicing with. And here too, we are not complete. In short, there is a lot of monitoring in the framework of the new environmental law system. On the other hand, I was just saying that the independent Integral Advisory Committee on the Environment advocated an open attitude and that it was not the first best case in the line reflex. It strongly recommends that the new system be given a chance, which includes making and learning from mistakes. Otherwise, we'll be back to square one in a few years. But how is this last point well safeguarded? In other words, how does the government see the clear design and combination and sometimes implementation of all these diverse monitoring results without falling into the above-mentioned rule reflex, thus losing the essence of the new environmental law system? Partly in this context, the independent Integral Advisory Committee on Environmental Law advocates the appointment of an external committee or a Commissioner who advises on monitoring the frameworks, objectives and key instruments. The Minister indicated that he would discuss this with colleagues, as I said earlier. When does the Minister expect to be able to respond to this? In other words, how is the government going to ensure that the frameworks, core instruments and objectives are maintained? Mr. Chairman. The members of my group are also interested in the system that has been devised here. That is to say: in the systemic approach to the implementation of improvements, changes etc. in combination with the maintenance of the philosophy of the Environment Act. Can the Minister undertake to submit an implementation system with regard to the various monitoring results to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u218	I feel that you are nearing your end, at least that of your input. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u219	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u220	Do you mind if we finish that? Then we'll do all the interruptions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u221	Mr President, I come to the end of my speech in the first term. Finally. There will be new issues relating to the physical environment that will be translated into legislation alongside the Environment Act, as is already the case with the Climate Act, for example. What are the criteria for the development of parallel legislation in relation to incorporation into the environmental law system? Finally, the members of my group ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Of course, we await the Minister's answers with the greatest possible interest and hope for a commitment to the questions we have put on that point, but in advance we, the VVD Group, are happy to give our support in principle to this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I would like to thank Mr Janssen for his patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u223	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Klip rightly referred to the city council. I am very much aware of this, but it is not the city council that is going to cover the seven years of the introduction period. It's three municipal councils, because we have elections in 2022 and 2026. Does Mrs Klip also consider it a real risk that of those seven years two years running away with six months before the elections and six months after the elections, new lectures and changes, and that this might be too short? How does it think that the continuity of this development will not be compromised, but that it can be secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u224	That is indeed a risk. But if you think it is so important as a municipality and as a city council, if this is one of the major routes in which three municipal councils are indeed involved, you can imagine that you pay extra attention to this in your information transfer. You cannot and cannot arrange it within one board period, and take ample time for the implementation of such a major legislative operation. But I agree with you that it is a critical factor that needs to be looked at very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u225	Mrs Klip often talks about the independent full advisory committee. In the Committee on Infrastructure, Water State and Environment, we have repeatedly discussed the question of whether this committee was so independent, because it is not independently positioned. I would like a response from Mrs Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u226	This committee has been set up initially, because that is probably what Mrs Nooren is referring to in order to inform or advise the previous minister. When the IWO committee asked for its own committee, the previous minister said: I already have a committee and I would like you to take advantage of it at home. The VVD Group has no indication whatsoever, especially given the very broad membership of that committee, of doubting the independent advice. Nor is it true that this committee has only given some sort of hallelujah advice; they are indeed critical. I think I'll call that committee two or three times, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u227	Then a question to the front. Does the VVD value to have an independent committee that can watch all that monitoring in the future as of 2021? Now it seems as if Mrs Klip is only asking the Minister, while our group and other groups are asking for an independent party to look into the monitoring results and, on that basis, advises the Minister or the Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u228	Mr President, in answer to this question, we consider a systematic approach to be important in any case, but that could go hand in hand. As far as the question on committee is concerned, I have not yet discussed it with my group, so I would first like to discuss it with my group. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u229	You state that you are in principle in favour of this law. You also point to a number of risks. We have also said it to each other: we have had a number of legislative pathways, the final result of which in practice was not what we wanted, for example the PAS. What risks do you see from that knowledge for the environmental domain?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u230	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mrs. Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u231	Mr. Chairman. That's a question you can philosophize about for a long time. I think it's important that the government should take care of it, and that is what we all are, is my sacred belief; the city council is also a democratically elected body that ensures that we handle the limited space in our country carefully. I didn't say for nothing that 30% of our country is below sea level. We all have to play a role in this, but we all play a role in making sure that we can stay safe in this country while respecting good biodiversity and what we need to do about climate adaptation and energy transition, to mention just a few recent examples. This means that the Environment Act will not have to lead to some kind of wild west in spatial planning, but we are not afraid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u232	My question was actually more about the legislative process. One of the conclusions I have heard in the corridors is that we have missed the signals around the PAS. Now we have a legislative process in which serious signals come out of practice, especially from the legal field: is this workable and feasible; is it going to work as you expect? Can you... can the VVD Group say anything about that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u233	I think you have to take all the signals, critical and positive, well into your head and then let go of your own weighting. But of course all these signals are relevant and we need to look at them. That is what the VVD Group has done, but there are also many positive signals about this legislation. I think that is a bit the difference in the political background of the spokesmen here. At present, the VVD has a positive attitude towards the introduction of this law to use that terrible ruling. But again, we'd like to await the Minister's answers. It is by no means the case that we look lightly at the introduction of this law and at the problems and risks that will be certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u234	With your permission, I am going to see Mr Otten, who still needs a brief clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u235	Mr President, you have guessed well; you can read minds. I have listened extensively and carefully to Mrs Klip of the VVD's speech on this sample of VVD legislation. Now the VVD is a party that always tries to excel in clear, clear communication. Please explain to me in three sentences what problem you think this is the solution and what the benefits of this Environment Act are. 'Cause I haven't heard that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u236	Well, that could be up to you, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u237	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u238	Mr President, I will put it nicely: it could also be up to Mr Otten. I call it man and horse: in terms of energy transition, we are not going to have a discussion about this, and in terms of climate adaptation, biodiversity, population growth and the need for responsible climate-neutral houses, there is an incredible pressure on space in our country. We have an individualised society with more and more citizens and businesses who want to do something themselves. That is what this law is about, allowing us to respond more quickly to what can or cannot be done responsibly within this particular country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u239	A brief final question and then I will go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u240	How?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u241	A very brief answer, Mrs Klip, and then we will really go on to Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u242	Because the various aspects of decision-making that very often have a spatial implication in these areas are one can think of all kinds of other things, but they have a spatial implication in this country that is more integral and come to a final judgment faster. That's how initiators know what they're up to. We've heard a lot of aldermen say that too. However, I would like to say once again that this must be done within the framework and with the utmost care, because we must be careful about this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. Then we go to Mrs Moonen on behalf of the D66 group for her 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u244	It is ten years since the Crisis and Recovery Act came into force this year. The Crisis and Recovery Act came into being at a time when construction went through a deep economic decline. I remember this period very well. At that time, I worked as a counsellor with the Prime Minister and was given the task of drafting the Crisis and Recovery Act as well. Now the construction sector is going through another deep valley, not because of the economy and not because of the demand for housing, but because of the nitrogen crisis. Last week, the Economic Institute for Construction published a report stating that the growth of construction production in 2020 and 2021 will stop. The new construction of homes and infra-projects is particularly hard hit, while there are major building assignments. 1 million homes have to be built by 2030. These houses should also be energy neutral. The existing housing stock must also be preserved. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the large housing inventory, this country has other international and national ambitions. Think of achieving the climate objectives, think of the ruling of the Supreme Court that Urgenda has made right and think of the transition from fossil to renewable energy sources. The key question we have to ask ourselves today is to the idea of the D66 Group: is the Environment Act going to help to achieve these challenges for housing, climate and energy, or are new barriers emerging? Is construction being accelerated or delayed? Does this make it easier to achieve the goals, while maintaining quality? I would like to add a concrete example, and then I will go to the earthquake area in Groningen. It is well known that the call for reinforcement is far too slow there. We're talking about an Environment Act today. The question we need to ask is: is the Environment Act going to speed up the reinforcement challenge in the Groningen earthquake zone? What is the Minister's response to this? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group wishes to acknowledge all parties who have worked hard over the past ten years on the implementation of the Environmental Act. It is a very large change in the system, under which many parties have put their hands on it. The D66 Group is based on the strength of people, the strength of democracy and the strength of parties who, by mutual agreement, make the right plans and make the right decisions, both locally and regionally. The group also has questions that it wants to ask, and I am going to do so. They are mainly about national direction, protection versus exploitation and legal certainty. Much is left to municipalities, provinces and water boards. It is interesting that the College of National Advisors recently published a study: Panorama Nederland. They indicate that these major challenges for citizens are becoming concrete and need to be addressed in a coherent manner at regional level. This is essentially in line with the ideas of the Environment Act. But the College of National Advisors says something else. It also indicates that a clear future perspective is needed for spatial planning and that shared spatial perspectives are even necessary and that space reservations should be made so that local authorities and parties have a starting point and a clear framework. The recently published report of Wageningen University and Research, A more natural future for the Netherlands, also makes clear choices for spatial planning. Tonight is also mentioned the report by ThinkWerk, "Small country, big choices," which is based on national management of spatial planning. In the meantime, we have been able to take note of a draft National Environment Vision and our group has asked quite a lot of questions about this about the national direction. That is also what my next question to the Minister is about. How does the Minister see the importance of having some more directional national frameworks and direction for spatial planning in the Netherlands? Let me give you a practical example. Partly because of the forthcoming Environment Act, there are all kinds of consultative bodies that are in the process of drawing up regional energy strategies. We know the MIRT consultation, climate adaptation alliances and teams working on regional housing agreements. In itself, this is all very positive, because these are the regional parties, as the College of National Advisors says. This is also the way it works at regional level. At the regional level, you make those appointments. The D66 Group wonders how to ensure, for example in the case of energy, that these energy transitions and those projects that are conceived locally and regionally are compatible with each other and with above-regional networks, very practically, and with national plans? And, Mr President, a question to the Minister is: who is responsible for these substantive connections across the borders of municipalities and provinces? Then, Mr President, I come to the second issue: the balance between protecting and exploiting. Let us be honest: the Council of State is critical on this point. The Council of State describes the risk of the balance sheet going to take advantage of it. I do not need to read the passages; we have all read them in the opinion of the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. There will be more degrees of freedom for balancing interests by the competent authority. However, a number of directly-functioning state rules, which are now allowed to deviate reactively, are replaced by instructional rules whereby municipalities proactively reflect on the desired environmental quality at a location. These are also called mixing panels. And that's what my next question is about. I know that we are also getting a supplement law on nature and a supplement law on noise, but I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask the Minister a question now. It is also about the system of this law. What is the Minister's view of whether municipalities are sufficiently equipped to consider, for example, acceptable noise levels? Can municipalities determine the impact of noise or other environmental aspects and how they affect public health? Because that is in the system of this Environment Act, that municipalities can get an expert opinion on it, and that requires quite a lot. I come to my third subject: legal protection and the protection of public space. The aim of the Environmental Act is to increase the administrative balancing area. What I described is that the administration is given more autonomy and more flexibility. We are also seeing an increase in that consideration space, but perhaps also an increase in complexity. Municipalities clearly state that the Environment Act should not be postponed, because the distance between the frontrunners and the leftovers should not be increased, and that it is necessary to keep the pressure on the boiler. Mrs. Klip said the same thing. The waterboards don't want to delay either. But crucial for the functioning of the Environment Act is the administrative power of the municipalities, provinces and water boards. During several technical briefings we have heard very appealing examples about the administrative power, for example of the municipality of Leiden, but there have also been concerns. I would like to mention one of the concerns here, namely the concern that the Environment Act offers potential scope for the law of the strongest. Are local authorities and partnerships able to meet these more open standards, to deal with strong private parties, supported by specialised lawyers? And that is what my next question to the Minister is about, Mr President. How does the Minister assess the argument, which was also mentioned by experts at the meeting, that the law of the strongest will prevail? And what does that do for the authority of the local democracies? Another effect may be that local authorities may opt for the strictest and strictest standards out of care to protect them. That's actually choosing a conservative course. And there are examples of this from the past, for example, that municipalities and environmental services, as a precautionary measure, go on to the most stringent standard. That's what my next question is about. In what way, because that is at the heart of the argument, will the government in council and deed assist the local authorities in strengthening their administrative power? Are sufficient resources available for this and can phase-in be envisaged in case of doubt? I shall now turn specifically to the subject of disadvantage compensation, which has not been discussed so extensively this evening. The Council of State notes that the Environment Act wants to do a lot at the same time. On the one hand, environmental plans and permits will allow flexibility. On the other hand, there is also a concern about the financial disadvantage of stakeholders. The solution to this is disadvantage compensation. In order to determine the damage compensation, the time of measuring the damage and the degree of concreteity of the plans is very important. Tonight has already been mentioned the specific case of mining which has also given a worrying signal about it. That brings me to the next question to the Minister. Is the question of disadvantage compensation sufficiently addressed and sufficiently thought-out? We have heard several predictions about the increase or reduction of appeals and appeals. The technical briefing also showed that the number of appeal cases may be more complex and that the cases will last longer. How does the Minister judge this? Then I would like to move on to the subject of participation. A lot has been said about this tonight, so I will be brief. It is gratifying that the amendment by Van Eijs, D66 member in the Lower House, adds to the Environment Act that the city council can identify cases of outdoor planning activities where it is obliged to offer participation opportunities to residents. There has also been broad support for this in the Lower House. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group also calls for good information on the use of effective instruments to achieve participation. The present legislative proposal focuses on "involving stakeholders at an early stage'. The Remkes State Commission has looked critically at this instrument. The opinion of the State Committee shows that the participation threshold is high for participants. Mrs Nooren has also repeatedly pointed out this in her speech. It requires skills of the participants but also time and self-confidence. Not all citizens are willing and able to participate equally. The State Committee points out that, in particular, the level of education is decisive here. Can the Minister indicate how she will involve the report of the Remkes State Commission in informing municipal councils about the use of instruments to organise participation? Then there's enforcement. The First Chamber has an important responsibility to look at enforcement aspects as well. At that point, I have one more question and one more concern. Municipalities have so far financed enforcement in the physical domain through the fees they receive in the case of licence applications. Fees are linked to a licence application. In the Environment Act many applications are no longer subject to authorisation but are subject to notification. In principle, there is no fee for a reporting obligation. There is also a relationship with the Quality Assurance for Building Act. I do not go into this too much technically, but it also leads to a change in responsibilities and possibly a change in funding. What do the Environmental Law and the Quality Assurance Act mean for the budget for supervision and enforcement that municipalities will soon be available to them? I conclude with a passage from the Minister's letter of late November 2019. In it, she writes that she aims to preside over the Royal Decree to the First Chamber by 1 July 2020 at the latest, after which we will finally decide whether or not we will actually allow the Act to enter into force on 1 January 2021. That is an important procedural agreement for the D66 Group. We would like to keep to this commitment made by the Minister in the letter of late November 2019. Finally, we are very grateful to the Minister and all officials for the enormous work they have done to keep answering all written questions. These are very many questions and answers, and we look forward with interest to the answers to the questions I have put on behalf of the D66 Group today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u245	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I now turn to Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u246	Thank you, Mr President. In recent years, efforts have been made by the various ministries, as well as by both chambers, to enable a far-reaching revision of environmental law. In this Chamber today there is a strong debate as has been shown on the adoption decision and the Introduction Act Environment Act. And that's good, because the Environment Act will have a direct impact on the citizens' environment and on business management. From complex permit applications to simple and easy reporting of the placing of a roof chapel on a home, the Environment Act should be ready. It is precisely the latter that the PVV Group doubts. Let me say first of all that we support the idea of this system review, but this is without prejudice to our concern about three important elements, which must be in order in relation to the PVV before the law can enter into force on 1 January 2021. Mr. Chairman. I shall now go into these parts in more detail. Firstly, it concerns the Digital System Environment Act, the DSO. Citizens and businesses will soon be able to apply for permits, make notifications and see what rules apply at a location.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u247	Apologies. It's a tip before that, but I might have been a little slow. You state that you are planning the law...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u248	Would you like to do that through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u249	Sorry. Ms Bezaan pointed out that the PVV was in favour of the idea of the law in principle. However, in the Lower House you paid a great deal of attention to the position of the law and the position of the AMvBs in the system. At least the PVV did. What does the PVV think of the role of parliament and democratic control of the Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u250	Thank you for this question. The PVV is a strong supporter of simplifying laws. I believe that the simplification of laws will benefit this democratic system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u251	You call it simplification. The point is, you don't know that. Sorry, Mr President, it will be so complex, but Mrs Bezaan calls it simplification. But precisely because a lot of regulation goes to an AMvB, I think that Parliament has less insight into it than it would normally be in the law. My question is: what do you think of the democratic input reduced in the Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u252	I'm assuming there's been a good thought about these AMvBs. Those debates are going to follow, and I really do not want to anticipate them very much, if you do not mind. I'd like to leave it at that, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u253	I note that this is not an essential point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u254	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u255	Where were we? In my view, I would have stuck to the fact that I will go into these parts in more detail. Oh, no! Well, I'm just gonna start. My first point was the Digital System Environment Act, the DSO. Citizens and businesses will soon be able to apply for permits, make notifications and see what rules apply at a location. However, during the expert meeting on 5 October 2019, it appeared that the DSO was still in full development and far from operational. Understandable, but also worrying, because it was promised that the DSO would be ready by 1 January 2020 to allow all local and provincial authorities to gain a year of experience. Colleagues have reported this earlier this evening. During the presentation of the DSO on 26 November 2019 in the IWO committee, it became clear to the PVV group that there was still a long way to go to get the DSO operational and user-friendly. This route is so long that the date of 1 January 2021, the date on which the Environmental Law is to enter into force, is at stake with regard to the PVV. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. What stage of development is the DSO currently at? Can the Minister guarantee that the DSO will be fully operational with all municipalities, large and especially small, water boards and provinces before 1 January 2021? Another important point at the DSO is that the Empire makes the dowry available. Under the Environmental Law, a number of rules from the Empire move to municipalities and water boards. With the adoption decision, the Empire ensures that these rules automatically enter into the environmental plan or the watership regulation. So the dowry: beautiful and necessary. But during the expert meeting in October 2019 it was already clear that the dowry is expected to be fully released only in the fourth quarter of this year. The latter makes it difficult for most of the municipalities, water boards and provinces to gain sufficient experience in working with the Digital System Environment Act. What remains of the year that was discussed? Can the Minister promise that the dowry will be released sooner than in the fourth quarter of this year? And I mean the whole dowry. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether she can promise that, in addition to the DSO, there will continue to be the possibility of physically submitting a licence application or a written notification at the municipal office. This point has also been raised by other colleagues, but I repeat it because I think it is very important. I ask this because we are concerned about older people who are unable to keep up with, monitor and/or understand all new developments. I'd like a response from the Minister. Then I come to the next section which, according to the PVV, deserves further attention. This concerns the participation of stakeholders, which has already been appointed on a number of occasions this evening. Participation is a core concept of and in the Environment Act. Our changing society is also calling for this: a new division of roles between government and other stakeholders, including citizens and businesses. Involvement of citizens as equal partners in developments in the physical environment contributes to the creation of support. The question whether that is sufficient to ensure that participation really takes place was an important topic of discussion in the House of Representatives. This led to the adoption of an amendment to the draft law proposed by the Court. For example, the City Council is empowered to designate cases in which participation is mandatory for promoters. These are licence applications for initiatives that do not fit in with the rules of the environmental plan, the successor to the existing zoning plan. Participation must take place before such licence applications can be submitted. This seems to be well regulated, but as it is now enshrined in the law, there is no standard framework for participation. This has also been highlighted by colleagues from various quarters. During the expert meeting in 2019 it became clear that the experts consider the participation too non-binding. Participation gives the impression that one can participate in decision-making, but that is not the case. No, stakeholders are consulted, no more and no less. In order to give greater substance to participation, the PVV Group believes that it has to comply with a number of framework conditions laid down in a standard framework. As far as we are concerned, without a framework for standards, there is less legal certainty for citizens. Can the Minister promise that a framework of standards for the participation referred to above will be included in the environmental law system? If not, I would like to hear from her why this is not possible or not desirable. The next question I would like to put to the Minister on behalf of my group is whether, following the introduction of the Environment Act, there will be an obligation to publish permits and environmental plans in the local newspaper or in the local douchebag. I have here a wonderful example of my own municipality, the municipality of Blaricum, with me. I live there, just like Mrs Baay. This paper publishes the environmental permits and permits applied for each month. We would like to see publication in local media to remain legally mandatory. Then the third part. As the expert meeting also showed in October, there are serious concerns about the increasing workload for the judiciary at the time of implementation of the Environment Act. Instead of reducing the workload, it is expected that it will remain at least the same and even increase in the first few years after the entry into force of the new law. The main reason for this is that two regimes co-exist. On the one hand, the transitional right with regard to the Wabo and, on the other hand, the introduction of the new Environment Act. The cases to be dealt with will also be more complex, as the cases will be comprehensive due to the fact that a lot of legislation comes together in the new Environment Act. The judge will therefore have to look and test much wider. A complex matter, according to the results of the expert meeting. Is the Minister aware of this problem? If so, what measures are being taken to deal with this? Are structural resources available, for example, to reduce the workload within the judiciary? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I come to the conclusion of my first term. Despite our critical attitude towards the DSO, participation and workload of the judiciary, which I have discussed here, the PVV assumes that the concerns outlined will be removed by the minister. It's cases that can be solved. The PVV is looking forward to answering the questions we have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u256	I have a question for Mrs Bezaan. You just mentioned in participation that you want a framework of standards, but you said that you mean participation in decision-making. Could you indicate, on behalf of the PVV Group, what you mean by participation in an environmental view at local or provincial level?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u257	Mr. Rietkerk, can I get it through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u258	We mean that when participation can or may be carried out in any way, citizens know what standards that participation must meet. That way you can create legal certainty for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u259	Mrs Bezaan explains this. Participation is also called co-thinking and co-development. Do you mean participation rather than creative thinking? 'Cause I'll have a picture of that. But if Mrs Bezaan understands how to decide, then you have to be in a council, in the States or in the Chamber. I'm looking for that word, because the PVV Group put it forward so pregnantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u260	In any case, as far as the first part you mention is concerned, that is how I see it. Since this is not only about municipalities, but also the provinces involved, you will have to look at a slightly different way of participating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-27-eerstekamer-3.u261	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. Then I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for the night until Tuesday 28 January 2020 at 10.15 a.m.
